Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Ball Corporation First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday April 28 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Hayes President and CEO.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Edison and good morning everyone.
This is Ball Corporation's conference call regarding the Company's first quarter results.
The information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Some factors that could cause the results or outcomes to differ are in the company's latest 10-K and in other SEC filings as well as the company's news releases.
If you don't already have our earnings release it's available on our website at ball.com.
Information regarding use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
Joining me on the call today are Ray Seabrook Chief Operating Officer of Global Packaging; and Scott Morrison Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In a moment Scott will discuss our progress from a financial point of view and Ray will follow up with details about the progress we are making in our packaging operations.
I'll close with comments on Aerospace and the outlook for the balance of the year and beyond.
As mentioned in our press release Ball reported very strong first quarter results due largely to strong volume growth in our Global Beverage Can businesses and strong operating performance across all of our Packaging businesses; excellent program performance in our Aerospace business; continued double-digit growth in the emerging markets particularly China and Brazil; benefit from our prior actions to better match our supply with market demand here in North America; and better-than-anticipated performance from our recent M&amp;A activity.
In addition to our strong results in the quarter we also closed on the Aerocan acquisition.
We successfully started up beverage can lines in Tres Rios Brazil and Belgrade Serbia began construction on a new plant in Alagoinhas Brazil and formed a joint venture in Vietnam.
Our Aerospace business won additional work ramped up hiring for new programs and increased quarter-end backlog to more than $1 billion.
As you can see it's a busy and exciting time to be at Ball Corporation.
Recall that our strategy revolves around maximizing the value of our existing businesses broadening our geographic reach aligning ourselves with winning customers and markets expanding into new products and capabilities and lastly leveraging our technology in new product development abilities.
And over the past period of time we've been successfully executing on just that.
Our announcement earlier in the quarter of realigning our 12-ounce in specialty beverage can capacity in the U.S.
sets our North American Beverage Can business up well for the balance of the year and beyond.
The new capacity in Eastern Europe Brazil China and Southeast Asia allows us to participate in strong growth now and in the future.
Our slug and extruded aluminum acquisitions position us well for what we believe are good global growth opportunities and have hit the ground running in terms of performance.
And our new product development activities continue to pay dividends with new investments in our Alumi-Tek bottle technology and our specialty can capabilities.
In fact our new products in specialty can growth around the world is up approximately 30% year-over-year and our expectation is that this will continue.
All of this would not be possible without our talented and dedicated people who take true ownership in all that we do on a daily basis.
So in summary we have good momentum in our business as we enter the seasonally strong summer season and our investments in the future that Ray will discuss tee us up well in the future.
With that I'll turn it over to Scott.
Thanks John.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share in the first quarter were $0.58 versus last year's $0.43.
The following factors contributed to improved results: growth in and consolidation of our majority-owned Brazilian joint venture as the first quarter of Brazil is seasonally strong; volume improvements and excellent operating performance on our Global Metal Packaging businesses; inventory holding gains in our Food and Household segment added a few cents in the quarter; exceptional program performance in our Aerospace business; a lower share count; and 6 additional accounting days in the quarter compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Since there are still only 365 days in the year this means there'll be 6 fewer accounting days in the fourth quarter of 2011.
These positive factors were partially offset by a year-over-year increase in corporate undistributed primarily due to higher incentive accruals an increase in the effective tax rate and higher interest expense.
The euro had essentially no impact to earnings in the quarter.
Also in the quarter the company recorded a $6.4 million after-tax charge or $0.04 per diluted share for the closure of our Torrance California beverage container facility.
For a complete summary of first quarter results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis please refer to the notes section of today's earnings release.
As an update to the 2011 financial metrics provided on our January call we anticipate full year interest expense to be closer to $185 million up $5 million over previous estimates due to the recent strengthening of the euro.
With the growing contribution of earnings from our Beverage Americas segment our full year effective tax rate will now be closer to 32% up from the prior indication of 31%.
As indicated in January 2011 CapEx will be approximately $500 million.
Each of these CapEx projects exceeds our after-tax investment hurdle within 3 years and Ray will provide an update on these projects in a minute.
Given our strong performance we expect corporate undistributed to run in the low $70 millions for the full year as -- versus the low 60s that I mentioned on the January call.
We continue to expect 2011 free cash flow of at least $400 million with the majority of the free cash flow going to share repurchases.
In the quarter we acquired a net $150 million of stock.
And as of today's call we've acquired approximately a net $180 million of stocks since the beginning of the year.
At current exchange rates year-end net debt is expected to be approximately $2.9 billion up slightly due to the Aerocan acquisition and cash being oriented to share repurchases and dividends versus debt paydown.
Our balance sheet is solid our capital structure is highly competitive and the operations are providing high-quality results and strong cash flow.
We will continue our long-standing approach to balance capital deployment and consistently return value to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
With that I'll turn it over to Ray to talk more about the packaging operations.
Thanks Scott.
This is an exciting time to be serving the company as the Global Packaging COO.
As John said we have a lot going on and it's all really good.
It's also reassuring to me to see firsthand that we have a lot of outstanding dedicated people that work for our company.
Metal Beverage America and Asia segment reported considerably higher earnings for the quarter due mainly to the inclusion of Brazil earnings which were not in the first quarter 2010 results and higher sales volumes in all geographic areas.
Excluding the effect of 6 additional days in the quarter as Scott talked about normalized sales volumes in North America were up mid-single-digits and normalized sales volumes were up in Brazil and China more than 15%.
We continue to see earnings growth opportunities in North America as we lower our cost structure improve our manufacturing footprint and develop innovative products like the Alumi-Tek bottle.
All of our major capital projects are on time and within budget.
The relocation of a 12-ounce can line to Whitby Ontario from Torrance California is scheduled to start up by mid-May.
A new 16- 24-ounce swing line will be installed and running in our Fort Worth plant by September and the Torrance plant is scheduled for closure in the fourth quarter.
All of these activities will contribute to second half and future year's results.
Beverage Can growth continued strong in both Brazil and China.
And to keep pace we have announced plans to build a new beverage can plant in Alagoinhas Brazil.
We are also replacing an existing beverage can plant in Qingdao China with a much larger more modern plant.
We expect to be making commercial cans by the end of 2011 in Qingdao and in early 2012 in Alagoinhas.
Turning to Europe our acquisition of Ball Aerocan on January 18th of this year is off to an excellent start.
Sales and earnings exceeded the acquisitions plan in the quarter and sales volumes in this product line are up over 20% year-over-year.
Metal Beverage Europe's normalized sales volumes are also up mid-single-digits in the first quarter and the sale of beverage cans in Germany continues to grow.
We foresee German beverage can growth in the range of 50% this year.
Market growth continues and we have just finished the installation of a second can line in our Belgrade Serbia plant and our supply/demand balance in Europe remains very tight.
The Metal Food and Household Product results in the quarter benefited from volume gains in aerosol containers earnings from the aluminum slug business we acquired in mid-2010 and some small inventory gains as Scott talked about.
Normalized food can volumes were a little soft in the first quarter but manufacturing performance in this sector was excellent.
To sum up our operations are performing well.
We are seeing increased demand in our businesses throughout the world and we are investing in our operations for continued growth.
With that I'll turn it back to you John.
Thanks Ray.
A few comments on Aerospace and then the outlook.
Our Aerospace and Technologies business reported near double-digit EBIT margins in the first quarter.
Earnings increased primarily due to continued excellent program performance.
Backlog as I said ended the quarter at more than $1 billion.
Under the U.S.
government's continuing resolution only a few of our programs are experiencing funding issues and the outlook in total is positive for the remainder of 2012 -- or excuse me 2011.
Multiyear programs and associated hiring are ramping up and we plan to expand our satellite manufacturing building later on this year to provide the necessary infrastructure to execute on these new wins.
We're keeping a close eye on the activities in Washington and we believe our ability to deliver value-based capabilities in terms of cost quality and schedule that are strategically important to our customer base sets us up well for the next couple of years.
In summary Ball Corporation's improved year-to-date performance is due to the execution of our strategy.
We're maximizing our returns in cash flow in mature markets broadening our product portfolio growing in emerging markets and providing technology and innovation to our customers.
And our shareholders are benefiting from our customer-led focus tight discipline and balanced approach to deploying capital as Scott said.
We fully expect to generate 2011 results in excess of those in 2010 and we are well on our way to achieving our long-term goal of 10% to 15% earnings growth per year.
With that Edison we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of George Staphos from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Ray good to hear you on the call again.
I guess the first question I had could you go back on the -- and repeat what the timing of the startups on the replacement plant in Qingdao and the new plant in Brazil are? And to the extent possible can you remind us or provide what the customer base is for each and remind us on the contract's presell nature et cetera if possible? Well Qingdao we need cans by December.
So we expect that to be starting up probably mid- to late December.
So that's Qingdao.
Alagoinhas is probably it's March a March startup for that plant.
The main customer base for both plants is beer.
We have I think I believe a 7-year contract in Brazil and we have contracts that support the Qingdao plant.
Did I answer all the questions or I miss one? And I'm guessing that the contract is pretty much -- or the volume you anticipate is pretty much all acquired from the key customers there is not any  [indiscernible] to come? Yes it's all sold out.
The second question I had relates to the European beverage can market.
I think you mentioned that you are sold out.
Have you experienced nonetheless any price compression or margin compression in any of the regions? Some of the peers who reported thus far suggested there were some pockets of price competition during the quarter and -- for the outlook for 2011? You know we are a competitive industry so there's always competition.
We do remain tight.
I believe as they say if things go according to plan we may need to add more capacity in Europe if the market continues to grow.
If the price we have -- we have experienced some price issues and we've walked away from some business on price.
So there's no use trying to get business that -- we're filling up our capacity with our best business.
The next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi from Robert W.
Baird.
It looks like your big beer customers in North America seem to have raised prices on their subpremium brands which has driven some level of premiumization benefiting glass to some extent at the expense of cans.
And I think the CMI numbers support that for the first quarter anyway.
Can you touch on what you saw in 1Q specific to beer and -- just given your large exposure towards the subcategory? Ghansham this is John.
I'll take that.
Recall over the past couple of years the share of the cans as a percentage of the packaging has gone up from call it 48% to 52% so we've been a beneficiary relative to other substrates.
I think the first quarter it was a little bit soft but not abnormally soft.
I think it was down about 1% or so.
But let's remember that's January through March.
It's not the time that people are going to be drinking beer.
Many of our customers have been focusing on value over volume.
I think the conversations we've been having with them suggest that they are very much focused on trying to grow their brands.
Yes they have created a less of a differential between the premium and subpremium but we're still pretty constructive on what's going on in the beer industry for the can.
Okay.
And just switching to soft drinks can you just update us on your thoughts on what we should expect going forward particularly given that your customers are digesting some pretty heavy raw material increases in what's inside the can not just the can itself.
And I'm curious as to whether you think they cut back on promotional spending just to offset some of that margin pressure.
I don't think I know the answer to that Ghansham.
Here's what I can tell you that we have obviously we did a fairly big market share in the U.S.
and so we deal with everybody.
And what we're seeing is different customers doing different things.
We have some customers that are quite frankly fairly aggressive in the U.S.
and we have some that are less.
So it's a bit of a mixed bag.
Okay.
And just one final one if I could.
There's been some talk about Russia potentially banning beer or PET [polyethylene terephthalate] which could occur by '13.
I know you previously had plans for a plant in the country can you just sort of update us on that? Well we still [indiscernible] in Russia and if it's good economics for us to [indiscernible] we will.
We've not announced anything yet because we haven't found the right entry point relative to customers and equipment where we can make a decent return.
Your mention about PET that is -- our understanding is that it's not gone into law yet but it is sort of being banned [indiscernible] which is the government body in Russia.
So we'll see how that develops and that could bring a positive outcome for the industry.
Your next question comes from the line of Alton Stump with Longbow Research.
It's actually Phil Terpolilli calling in for Alton.
All of our questions have been answered but we just had a quick one.
Is there any kind of a ballpark estimate you might have on America's beverage? Especially in North America you mentioned mid-single-digit growth.
What percentage of that is coming from maybe contract wins or kind of new business this year? Well recall over the last 12 days to 18 months we've talked about in 2010 we're going to be taking a step down and beginning back in 2011 back to the 2008 2009 levels.
That's exactly where we are right now.
And what that means on a year-over-year basis is as we said mid-single-digits increases over 2010.
We're entering that busy summer selling season and so we have only had a first quarter under our belt but we expect exactly what we said in January to be occurring through 2011.
The next question comes from the line of Chris Manuel with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
And I think last quarter I commented that you had some big shoes to fill but given what you guys are doing thus far it seems like you're stepping into them pretty well.
Appreciate that but one quarter doesn't a year or a decade make.
But as we said in January...
Well that's what I'd like to hear.
Yes we have a lot of -- as we said in January and we say now we have good momentum in our business.
We have people focused.
We're very much focused on the execution of our capital projects and touch wood it is only the end of April right now but things are going well with the company.
Well that's what I like to hear that you're still going at it.
So I do have a couple questions for you.
First let's talk for a second about the Aerospace side of the business.
If memory serves that's almost a record backlog I believe.
How does that start to get monetized through as we look over the next 12 to 24 months? Can that get back to kind of record EBIT levels here or how should we think about that? Well recall back in August of last year we've really won 4 big programs in the satellite side of the business.
Some of them are classified so we can't talk about them but these are multiyear programs.
And what we said is as they begin to ramp up in 2011 we'll get some benefit.
But really as we go into '12 and '13 that's where it will come in.
The only caution I'll note relative to that is that the funding at the U.S.
government level is still unclear.
We're operating under a continuing resolution right now.
We've got that ceiling issues.
And until the September timeframe when the 2000 -- fiscal 2012 budget is put into place we won't have complete -- we won't have better visibilities than we do now.
What I will tell you and I said in my prepared remarks is that that the wins that we have are very strategic for our customer base and we believe that one of the reasons that we won some of this business is because we have shown an ability to deliver good value good quality on a good timeline at a low cost.
So it sets us up nicely as we go into 2012 and '13.
Okay that's helpful.
And then one other question for -- as you look at the metal gains you had over the quarter is there is there a way you can help us to want to quantify those so we can get a sense of trajectory here into 2Q 3Q? Or will some of those also continue into 2Q as well? No I mentioned that in the Food and Household segment we had just a few cents.
It wasn't a huge impact.
And going forward it really is nothing.
So it shouldn't affect the numbers as we look forward throughout the rest of the year.
And then in that Metal Food Household section it did take -- the European Bev [beverage] section it did take a big step up.
And I'm assuming that a chunk of that is Aerocan.
Could you maybe give us a sense as to what the revenue and EBIT contribution were relating that business? You want me to do that Scott? Yes go ahead Ray.
The revenue is about $100 million.
I'm talking U.S.
dollars now.
Of course they're running that business in euros but $100 million is the revenue and call it $7 million is the contribution.
The next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Is it possible we get a little bit of color on what might have gone on in the first quarter in terms of just North American food can volumes? I mean your numbers sounded like they were pretty much down in line with the industry but it seems like a pretty big drop for a relatively stable business? Yes.
We're still looking at that.
Our volume probably normalized we're down probably in the neighborhood of 4% on the food side and they were up 5% or 6% in aerosol.
So -- and they're still soft as we speak.
Some of it is timing I think.
Some of it -- the steel guys have raised the prices on steel to a point where I think some of our -- there's still -- our customers are sitting on some inventories they're trying to get rid of before they pull the can.
Remember this is a very seasonal business.
Just because they haven't pulled them now it doesn't mean it's not going to be a good tax.
So I'm not sure that's totally what you're looking for but it has been a little soft year-to-today but we expect it to pick up when some of our customer's inventories are pulled down.
Okay.
And a couple questions on Brazil.
Can you qualify the impact from the benefit from increasing your position in the joint venture in Brazil? Yes maybe this I'll take it first.
And then Scott you can comment.
Remember what we did is we went from a 50-50 unconsolidated joint venture to a 60% consolidated joint venture.
So when you look at not only the contribution at the EBIT line but also the equity line last year and the noncontrolling interest line this year and netting them we really only have a slight improvement given the 10% increase in ownership.
I think what you're seeing also though is the benefit of the growth in Brazil that the business is performing well.
And Scott do you have anything? No that's it.
I mean going forward you'll see the 40% that we don't own coming out in noncontrolling interest.
Okay.
And do you have a sense just kind of based on the first quarter of by sort of how Brazilian volumes are doing this year's just for the sort of a market as a whole? Yes I think the market is sort of up 12% 13%.
We're up little higher than that.
The next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Crédit Suisse.
I probably missed this but could you just again verify the volume in beverage cans in Europe what the change was and if you could isolate what it would've been without the improvement in Germany? I don't know if I can isolate without the improvement in Germany but I would tell you that beverage can -- our beverage can volumes are up 4% in Europe in the first quarter of year.
Yes.
Let's recall also in Germany we've had some good improvement there but it's also very small based.
And so yes it was a portion of the growth that Ray just mentioned but certainly wasn't all of it by any stretch.
Got you.
And then in terms of the Aerocan acquisition you closed on last year my understanding is that this business was I don't want to say left for dead but was not performing well under its previous owner like 5 or 6 years ago.
And maybe you could just talk a little bit about how -- what turned that around what the market changes have been that provide acceptance for their particular technologies and sort of how you -- where you expect that business to size at say 3 to 5 years by now whether it's organic or through acquisitions? This is John.
Maybe I'll take the first crack and then turn it over to Ray.
Recall in January we talked a bit about this.
Five years ago it was an underperforming business in a larger conglomerate.
And they had several facilities that were losing money.
They had some accounting issues in certain plants.
And they ultimately LBO-ed [leveraged buyout] it with the local management and local management did a wonderful job of cleaning things up.
They closed the facility in Spain.
They fixed the plant in France.
They significantly expanded their Eastern European presence.
And they were doing this all at the time when the market started improving from a demand point of view.
And so as we look at the acquisition it was a very well-run business with some good growth potential some embedded capability from not only a technology point of view but from a fixed cost absorption as you add incremental capacity in the Eastern European facility.
And so it's all good and maybe Ray if you want to talk a little bit about what we're seeing now as we go forward.
Yes.
I mean basically we just approved some more capital.
We're installing another line in the facility that John has talked about.
And quite frankly we're sold out in that business.
And I told you year-over-year volumes are up 20% in the first quarter.
We continue to see growth not only in Europe but worldwide in that business.
So we're looking to see what we can do to continue to expedite our look at that business.
I did misspeak once before what I said was we had $100 million of sales in the first quarter We're like $40 million.
I picked the wrong number but it's more like $40 million of sales and $7 million with EBIT.
Yes.
But as we go forward just to give context the global aerosol -- aluminum aerosol market is approximately 6 billion units.
It depends on how you look at it but go with us on that.
Europe's about half of that a little bit less but about half of that.
We've got a 20% share.
The growth rates in Europe are quite strong right now.
This is a lot about beauty and other things like that.
It's not about paint it's not about general line.
And we're sourcing good growth there.
There's opportunities in North America as we said before opportunities in South America where the strongest growth is probably occurring down in South America.
So we're -- and even in Asia there's good growth opportunity.
So we got into this business thinking that we have some capabilities to provide to the business.
It has some capabilities that will help -- we can help to leverage as we look in other places and that's exactly what we're attempting to do here.
And then one quick follow-up.
As we look around the world the only place that I know of and you may know of others John and Ray where you see in essence new entrants into beverage cans there's I believe a Chinese company in Vietnam that is building a plant that I believe is based on steel as opposed to aluminum.
And would you say that's sort of a one-off situation or do you see competitors coming in? Well the one you're talking about Vietnam that's an announced plan.
I'm not sure they're really going to build it they announced they're going to do it but I don't know if they're actually going to do it.
There are -- we have competitors.
We tend to run into the same competitors worldwide.
We have -- when we look at -- I look at the world market we -- in beverage cans we have more competitors in Asia than anywhere else.
If you look at Asia there are more competitors seems to be in Asia.
We tend to run into the same probably 4 competitors 3 or 4 competitors pretty much the rest of the world.
And you might have a strike here or there but I would say the most competitors we see are in Asia.
The next question comes from the line of Richard Skidmore with Goldman Sachs.
Just wanted to follow up a bit on Brazil and how you see the supply and demand dynamic evolving in Brazil over the next couple of years given both your capacity expansion and what you're seeing with some of your competitors? The market the beer picking up -- a lot of it has to do with beer.
I think beer penetration is still in sort of the low 30%.
When you look at developed markets it usually gets to 50-ish.
We've continued to see growth.
They've got the World Cup and the Olympics is coming to Brazil.
There is inflation.
They've tried to slow the economy a little bit.
They put some taxes on some things.
So I don't think it's the a bit out of balance but I think Brazil's pretty much still sold out on cans.
You've heard all our competitors we announced expansion but it's really to fill the growth there.
And we're trying not to put capacity in unless we know exactly where it's going.
And we're not just building something for the sake of building it.
So I continue to see growth in Brazil.
I think the next 3 or 4 or 5 years will still be reasonably strong.
I think that we'll take our fair share of the growth as well as our competitors.
And I see Brazil as a good place to be doing business right now.
Let's not forget in context for 2010 it was short 1.5 billion to 2 billion cans that were imported from other regions.
So they're starting in a hole going in 2011 a big hole.
And as Ray said we continue to see strong industry growth there.
And on a base of I'll call it 18 billion plus or minus you can do the math there that's 3 billion or 4 billion cans that are needed in 2011 that weren't being supplied locally in 2010.
So as you think about that and extrapolate and given the embedded growth that we believe related to some of the things Ray mentioned we think the prospects over the next couple of years are very constructive.
Now having said that we also are very cognizant of what we're doing in making sure that our contracts are tied up and that we're not over building relative to demand that we see from our customer base.
And just on that in terms of the contracts.
The contracts essentially guaranteed such that if the customer chooses then not to build their facility do you get some remuneration for your investment or is it essentially you then just have to do what you did with the Poland plant and ultimately not start it up and relocated somewhere else? Suffice to say -- we're not going to get into the specifics of our contracts but suffice to say that we feel confident that we have the necessary provisions in place to adequately protect the risk management of these contracts.
The next question comes from the line of Peter Ruschmeier with Barclays Capital.
Congratulations on the strong quarter.
Ray welcome back to the call.
I wanted to ask if I could operationally can you talk more about Belgrade Serbia Tres Rios how is it performing versus expectations? Maybe remind us what kind of learning curve you'd expect and whether there was any kind of start-up cost that was incurred in the quarter and how we should think about learning curve going forward.
You mentioned Tres Rios the startup in our Brazilian operations has been probably some of the best I've seen in my whole career.
I mean these plants we put in I think we've spent a lot of money to put them in and I guess it showed when we start them up because they just started up impeccably.
I would say that the startups in Brazil I would say have been the best we've ever had.
They just started up and we're making quality cans a lot of them right off the bat.
We just recently installed that line in Serbia.
I think it made its first cans a couple of weeks ago.
So we're kind of -- we're still in the startup phase.
So it's just really still starting up but we're not expecting any difficulties.
And touch wood we've been real fortunate in the last few years that our start-ups had gone probably better than expected.
And in terms of learning curve do you think Serbia could be up and going full in 6 to 9 months? I think we'll be making -- no I think yes well as I said capacity is tight in Europe.
I need cans this year.
I need cans by mid-May out of Serbia.
So were going to be as they said our supply demand in Europe is too tight.
I need those cans this year.
It's going to be producing quality commercial cans mid-May and it's going to be running flat out pretty quickly here.
Okay.
I'm curious on some of the growth in Brazil.
Maybe John if you could help us understand the organic growth versus the share gains as you see some of the trade up from a return to bottle market into more of a one-way a package market? If you were to think about bifurcating the demand growth how would you do that? Well I think when you look at overall literage of beer and soft drink that continues to go strong and a lot of it is growing because it's not necessarily in the Rio areas and Sao Paolo areas although that's growing nicely but you're seeing it in the north you're seeing it in the Northeast and some of the more developing areas within Brazil.
As we said a lot of infrastructure is going in those areas.
For example the World Cup they're going to be in 8 different cities.
So it's not just in Rio or Sao Paolo so that's driving it.
And you combine that with a package share penetration as Ray said in the mid 30's.
And we think there's some upward mobility it's going to provide some additional acceleration of the beverage can over the next couple of years.
Do we expect it to last forever? No probably not.
But certainly over the next few years given the infrastructure build and the dynamics we just talked about we think there's some good runway there.
Okay.
And then maybe just lastly back in the U.S.
I'm curious if you can talk about -- relatively small market but the microbrews and the trends you're seeing there both in terms of pack types growth rates any color you can offer? Yes.
The craft beer market has been certainly a bright spot in terms of volume relative to not only us but the overall beer category.
It's the fastest growing segment within the beer category.
Cans 5 years ago were effectively nothing in that segment and they are growing very very strong.
And as it takes hold with some of the smaller ones the question remains is will it start to take hold with some of the largest -- larger craft beer makers and I guess all I'd say is stay tuned on that.
The next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Just a quick question.
You mentioned how in Asia some of your competitors are generally smaller.
When they do add capacity are they locking up long-term contracts and are they setting it up in a similar fashion as well? I don't know the answer to that.
As they say I think some of our competitors are.
I don't think they all are.
I think that the -- you've got to remember some of our competitors are state-owned companies in China.
They're owned by the government.
So I think they do sometimes things a little differently than we do quite frankly.
And I think that our worldwide competitors probably do things more similar to what we do.
But China just to give you a sense we are importing cans into China.
We are sold out as we speak.
And so that's why I said I need that capacity in Qingdao by December.
So we got -- the market is increasing in China.
There's -- I think the beer penetration is at 4% or something like that.
So you can see if that moves up a little bit you're going to need more can plants in China.
So we're looking at that.
We're studying that.
We're making sure that we get our fair share of whatever is happening over there.
So -- but China tends to not necessarily work exactly like everything -- more the rest of the world because we have more competitors there that do things maybe a little differently than we do.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just for modeling purposes your Americas Beverage segment obviously you're seeing a nice lift from Brazil from the can consolidation and some of your investments are flowing through more fully.
Should we expect margins to be pretty stable across-the-board throughout the quarters now? Well we always have seasonal upticks in the second and third quarter of North America when we get the volume upticks the margins look a little bit better.
But until we get a full year of Brazil in our numbers it's going to dampen the seasonality that we've had in the past because their busy time is the first and fourth quarters and our visit time is the second and third quarters.
So it should bring the margins a little bit closer over time but you got to get a full year before that really starts to happen.
Inc.</strong> So you should still see a modest step-up of sorts in 2Q and 3Q? Yes because that's the busiest time and the U.S.
business is much larger than the Brazilian business.
The next question comes from the line of Al Kabili with Macquarie.
Just to clarify on your beverage cans the 4% volume growth was that also adjusted for the 6 extra days during the quarter? That was adjusted.
If you didn't adjust it it would look more like 10% or 11%.
Okay fair enough.
And also a follow-up question on Brazil.
Do you have next year any meaningful contracts coming up for renewal in Brazil next year? I was kind of thinking about -- I know you've kind of locked up some of the new capacity you've added but wondered kind of some of the existing contracts that are out there to sort of how those come up? We have one contract that's coming up at the end of '11 that we're negotiating right now.
I'm not expecting any issues.
It represents probably 20% of revenues 15% to 20%.
Okay.
And then also on the I guess Food Can business with the --  any thoughts on this on productivity? I know with the Richmond Canada closure last year.
Can you update us on any of that where cost savings there will start accruing or if you saw some of that benefit already in the first quarter.
No we haven't seen the benefit.
We are in the process of relocating their equipment as we speak.
A lot of those cans that we used in this year's pack have already been made.
They were made in Richmond.
And you won't see the benefit of that probably until next year.
Okay.
Final question.
Certainly the euro from where we're at today certainly it looks like it's going to be a nice tailwind in starting in the second quarter here.
Are there any hedges that you have out there that would impact how we think about FX and also I want to get your guys' thoughts on view on updates and just how you think about hedging in general right here at current exchange rates? Well I mentioned in the first quarter the euro essentially had no impact year-over-year.
But as we sit here now at 147 and moving higher obviously we'll get the benefit of that as we move through the year.
We do put hedges in place but we tend to use things where we have upside and protect downside.
And so whatever the euro ends up being we should translate it fairly close to that number even taking into account our hedges.
But we put downside protection in below certain numbers and we're well above those numbers right now.
So we should get the benefit on that side but that's also pushing up the interest expense a little bit and the debt that we have over in Europe it will push it up a little bit.
The next question comes from the line of Tim Thein with Citigroup.
Congrats again on a strong quarter.
I wanted to circle back on the specialty can growth.
I think you'd mentioned earlier that I think you quoted 30% global growth.
Can you just provide a little bit of color in terms of the regional breakdown and maybe certain regions where that contributed to that growth? I don't have that in front of me but we are seeing strong specialty growth.
Ray mentioned the 16- and 24-ounce particularly but even our new 7.5-ounce can size here in North America.
And down in Brazil we have the sleek can that's growing nicely.
And then even in Europe whether its 15 cl or going up to 568 cl.
I think brand owners are looking at trying to differentiate their brands and position their brands relative to being a little bit more distinguished to the consumer.
And we given that we have a large -- relatively large proportion of our output that has a capability of becoming specialty we're benefiting from that.
And can you still John get I guess paid for that kind of innovation? And in terms of the margins I know in recent years up to say 2 or 3 years ago before more capacity was allocated to this segment that the margins at least one of your competitors have quoted it was up to 3x in conventional can.
And not to pin you down on the exact numbers but is there still a nice kind of premium margin for specialty relative to conventional? Well by definition there should be because we're investing in it.
And if you want to get an appropriate return on investment you ought to be getting better than just the steady-state.
Okay but is that true in Europe I mean today? Yes.
I think it's generally true wherever we are.
Okay.
And Coming back did you say on Aerocan it was EUR 7 million of EBIT on EUR 40 million of sales? We said it was $40 million of U.S.
sales and $7 million of EBIT approximately.
Do you guys see -- your EVA model is that -- is this deal going to be accretive by like the second year or maybe even the first year? It's accretive now.
As I said in my prepared remarks we really hit the ground running with all of our M&amp;A activity relative to our expectations and the folks over in the Aerocan business the folks in the Neuman -- the former Neuman Aluminum business are doing a great job and we're quite excited about it.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Khoshaba with KSA Capital.
Just looking at some of your recent competitors and their increase in capital expenditures and your increase in capital expenditures the whole industry's done a great job investing and making these plans come on time and getting great returns.
But I was thinking back after looking at these numbers that for the last 20 years I think you guys would probably agree the industry benefited during times when capital expenditures were kind of coming in and operating rates were tight and it allowed you to have pricing and wonderful things happened in terms of performance and stock prices and all those things.
And now all of a sudden we're seeing CapEx -- for the entire industry not just you guys for everybody -- and again I think the industry structure's a lot different.
But you have to be wondering or at least thinking what's different this time so that the increase in CapEx that is happening throughout the industry doesn't lead to what it led to back in the -- I guess it would have been the mid-1990s probably right? In terms of returns.
So how do you think about that and when will you know? And I guess you never really know but you get my point.
Yes.
Dan let me just quickly walk through.
Number one -- and I'll speak to our capital obviously we're a very different business than we were back then.
And the capital investments we're making right now are very diversified and they're for varying reasons.
You go to Asia Ray just said we're importing cans right now into China so we need that capacity.
You go to Brazil but I said the capacity last year as an industry we believe we're short 1.5 billion to 2 billion cans and it's growing 15% to 20% year-over-year.
Over in Europe as Ray said that we are short in cans and we need cans out of Serbia.
And then here in North America it was more of a cost-play that we actually closed took out a bunch of fixed cost and to took some of those -- some of that equipment move it up in the Whitby Ontario and saved a bunch of freight and we were able to install a new line 16 and 24-ounce line.
And remember Torrance made 16-ounce so we needed some 16-ounce capability in a segment of the North American that's growing 30%.
So all of those are very different.
And you are -- it's fair to take a look from a top-level-down looking at it but when you look at it bottoms up we feel pretty confident in what we're talking about.
And as we have been saying for a number of months we're very much focused on the execution.
We're not going to get over SKUs but we think these are good return opportunities for us.
So then the answer I guess is that the drivers are different than they were perhaps 15 years ago? Yes and remember Dan a lot of it -- us and our competitor a lot of it -- the spending is in emerging markets.
Yes for sure.
I mean that's a big difference yes? Ray good to hear you.
And I appreciate it.
Good quarter guys.
The next question is a follow-up question from the line of George Staphos of Bank of America.
A couple questions.
One what's the latest on BPA and your coating supplier's ability to provide you an alternative that's BPA free if required by your customers without getting into the science and whether there's any real fact to whether it should be in the first place a concern for people.
But what's your supplier's ability to help you right now? Well we won't get into facts as no one else seems to be getting into facts about BPA.
But the reality is let's talk about beverage on one hand and food on the other.
On the beverage can side we are testing various coatings internal coatings.
And we believe that if push comes to shove we would be in reasonably good position to execute on the BPA front on the beverage side.
On the food can side it varies so much because there's a tremendous amount of different specs relative to if you're talking about tomatoes or if you're talking about green beans or other food stuffs we have -- we will be having approximately 20% of our cans in BPA-non-intent this year and we think we can go over 50% next year.
And we are struggling with some categories but those categories we're struggling with are not in important part of our business.
Okay.
So you have -- John if I heard you right you said you would have the capability of being BPA-free in roughly 20% of your specs in food right now? Yes that's what we're currently targeting.
And discussions continue with the coatings supplier so.
Understood.
One thing that I was thinking about both off of this call and some of the others that have occurred this morning obviously there's a lot of discussion about food inflation and whether that's having an effect on demand or not.
And I was wondering do you think realizing that you're probably unintentionally but nonetheless biased do you think that an environment where you start to see food inflation once again impacting grocery demand that the food can would hold up relatively better or relatively worse relative to other products that are packaged in other packaging materials do you think? Well we've always tried to at least internally look at economics cycles inflation cycles relative to our -- the products that we serve.
And there is a strong case to be made that we ought to be better off relative to other packaging types in times where the consumer has less money in their pocket.
And whether that's an economic cycle or an inflationary cycle we haven't been able to draw a direct correlation to that but I think intuition would suggest that.
We've seen a bit of softness this quarter but as Ray said it's the first quarter the seasonal pack is really coming up.
It largely has to do with what we believe our inventories are being held by our customers.
And so I think as time goes on George we'll be able to see better visibility if that piece holds true.
Last question.
Over the last 20 years you've seen this conversion that's occurred gradually over time in food cans from 3 to 2 pieces.
You had Milwaukee and Columbus your competitor in Owatonna you'll see conversions.
Would a 2-piece can provide a cost benefit to your customer? And what I'm thinking about is how do you preserve the can's place in the grocery aisle and the center of the store when you've had so much in the way of template increases? Or are the capital issues associated with two piece and the lack of flexibility still sort of impediments and so your share has settled out where it like from an industry standpoint now where it likely will settle out in terms of 2 versus 3-piece? And part of the question behind the question is if there was opportunity to move more towards a 2-piece then that would be another way that you could over time balance the 12-ounce market in beverage in the US.
What are your thoughts there? Possibly George -- this is Ray.
The trouble with 2-piece is you need a lot of volume in the same size.
So start changing sizes or diameter or heights on cans it doesn't bode well for 2-piece.
You need to have 500 million 600 million units in the same sized otherwise it doesn't work for 2-piece.
Yes the 2-piece is probably a slightly lower-cost technology but you got to have the volume.
So over time things with higher volumes have migrated to 2-piece but a lot of which left in 3-piece it's different sizes diameters shapes and it doesn't have enough volume to justify 2-piece.
So a lot of that has happened I believe and I think as long as -- let's face it as long as steel stays competitive to the other product rates food can is going to be just fine.
And one last thing to just play on that is there is a very big infrastructure in place in terms of processing food cans.
And to recapitalize that for no volume that's a consideration on our customers' wants.
The next question is also a follow-up question from Chris Manuel of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Just 2 quick ones.
One is and it kind of centers on the same thing as you're looking out today at you've been very active on the acquisition front in the last couple of years and you've found some really terrific opportunities that you're moving forward with how do you -- what are you seeing as you look out today? Do you find any opportunities or any specific geographies? How do you think about your product sets again things of that nature? Let me first talk generally about capital allocation because that's what you're getting to and then maybe I'll try as best I can to talk about specifics.
We've created a lot of value at this company over the years by taking the cash flow and pulling it 3 ways: number one through acquisition; number two through investments internally through internal growth and CapEx projects; and three through return of capital via share repurchase and dividend.
That is not changing.
In any given year there's a relative prioritization that occurs given the opportunity set that you see out there.
We've been able to be patient and tenacious at the same time around some of these acquisitions and we will continue to do so.
We as any company that looks at acquisitions we at any given time as the number of pokers in the fire so to speak and you never know when those will hit.
And today is no different than it is right now.
As Scott has said in his comments that we are investing internally in CapEx we've talked about that.
Unless something else happens on the M&amp;A side we're going to be delivering the balance of our cash flow to share repurchase and dividends.
So I know I'm not specifically talking about the acquisitions that you'd like me to but I think it would be premature to do that.
That's fair.
And to be clear I'm in no way questioning your ability to redeploy capital.
You have an outstanding track record over the past few years of doing that using all three of the levers you suggested.
But as a follow up as we think about the next let's call it 12 to 24 months obviously right now you're in a bigger capital spurt as you're adding some capacity in numerous environments.
And you've sort of laid out that $200 million is more of a maintenance level given some of the commentary in the press release today.
How does that move forward the next 24 to 36 months as you think about opportunities that you see today? Do you still continue to see more opportunities to deploy above maintenance-oriented capital levels or do you think that moves back closer to that $200 million $250-ish million level over the next few years? Well I think what we said is this is probably higher than what we'd expect as we go forward.
Scott did mention that certainly in the January call.
Again it is opportunity-specific from the bottoms up.
We would expect our capital to be coming down but at the same time when we're -- if the markets continue to grow like they are we want to be responsive to that.
And a good example of that is the Aerocan business we recently acquired.
We had thought we'd have to put capital in late this year or early next year to fund some of this growth and it happened more quickly.
So we're accelerating that a bit.
It was always in our plans but the timing of it relative to late this year versus earlier this year that's a good example of how you can never predict this to an exact science.
But we would expect over time absent good projects out there for it certainly become a now.
We do have a follow-up question from Chip Dillon with Crédit Suisse.
Sorry to drag the call on just a real quick one.
One of your big competitors has been on quite a tear in terms of building capacity as you know.
And it's very clear I think to a number of us that they are probably going to down throttle quite a bit next year.
And it may be early days but you mentioned John opportunities.
Do you think if I -- let's just make the assumption that that is their strategy -- that there might be increased potential for more plants like you're doing now in China and Brazil as we look at '12 and '13? Well it's always difficult to predict.
We're very customer focused.
We talked about that.
And our philosophy around capital is we'll do it on the back of a long-term agreement with our customers.
And we've been very successful in doing that.
and to the extent our customers see value in continuing to do we're going to consider it.
But I do think it is premature to be talking about that.
But we want to keep up as Ray has said that we want to keep up with our relative share of the growth and we fully expect to do that.
And would it be fair to say -- I mean again it's early days but if you look at Brazil a lot of what happened there it seems like there's a bit of catch-up to handle the fact that they're importing cans whereas my perception is that Asia still has a lot more to go.
Is that -- as you look at your 3- to 5-year plan would you agree with that that probably relative to each other that Asia has probably more potential than Latin America? Well I think that's generally true.
And let me just give you 2 data points that would help support that.
Number one its largest beer market in the world in terms of overall consumption of beer.
And number two as Ray said it's got a 4% or 5% can share as a percent of the package mix.
So you combine those 2 and there's only one way to go for the can whereas in Brazil it is a good strong growth market but it already has mid-30s penetration.
And Mr.
Hayes there are no further questions.
Okay excellent.
Well thank you Edison and thanks everyone for participating our call.
I have one announcement that we'd like to make.
On October 10 and 11 here in Colorado we're going to have an investor field trip.
And Scott will be reaching out to others but if you want to mark your calendars on that.
And again thank you for your participation.
We look forward to catching up with everyone on our second quarter call.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Ball Corporation Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday July 28 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Hayes President and Chief Executive Officer of Ball Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Lyn and good morning everyone.
This is Ball Corporation's Conference Call regarding the Company's Second Quarter Results.
The information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Some factors that could cause the results or outcomes to differ are in the company's latest 10-K and in other company SEC filings as well as the company news releases.
If you don't already have our earnings release it's available on our website at ball.com.
Information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
Joining me on the call today are  Scott Morrison Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Ray Seabrook Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer in Global Packaging.
In a moment Scott will discuss our results and Ray will follow with details about our packaging operations.
I'll close with comments in aerospace and the outlook for the balance of the year and beyond.
As mentioned in our press release Ball reported solid second quarter results due largely to our people executing well against our strategy maximizing value in our existing businesses and our company's broadening our geographic reach and expanding into new products and capabilities.
Highlights from the quarter include: overall volume growth in our global beverage can businesses of more than 3% and strong operating performance across all of our businesses; excellent program performance in our aerospace business continued double-digit growth in emerging markets particularly China; benefits from our prior actions to better match our supply with market demand in North America; and better-than-anticipated performance from aluminum slug and extruded aluminum aerosol businesses we acquired in the second half of last year and early this year.
In addition to our strong results in the quarter we broke ground on 3 emerging market beverage can plants in Brazil China and Vietnam; started a beverage can line in Serbia and relocated beverage can equipment in Canada; completed our expansion of our aerospace antenna manufacturing capabilities; began expansion of our satellite manufacturing operations in Boulder Colorado; launched our new North American packaging graphic center in Colorado; and earlier this month launched our 8-ounce trim can in the United States to meet school guidelines.
Our numerous CapEx projects that are diversified among many of our businesses from here in North America to Europe Asia and South America are on track and doing quite well in.
Continue to monitor supply and demand in each of those markets and recent M&amp;A investments are performing well above expectations.
So in short despite a challenging economic backdrop that muted volumes in several of our key markets Ball is performing quite well.
And with that I'll turn it over to Scott.
Thanks John.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share in the second quarter were $0.85 versus last year's $0.69 a 23% year-over-year improvement.
The following factors contributed to improved results: consolidation of our majority-owned Brazilian JV; the acquisition of the extruded aluminum businesses in Europe and North America; volume improvements and excellent operating performance in our metal packaging businesses particularly in China; exceptional program performance in our Aerospace business; benefits of share repurchases; and a $0.04 FX benefit in the quarter.
These positive factors were partially offset by a year-over-year increase in interest expense due to recent acquisitions and the consolidation of Brazil.
As a reminder first half performance was favorably impacted by 6 additional accounting days in the first quarter compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Second half 2011 performance will include 6 fewer accounting days in the fourth quarter than the prior year.
So when we talk about comparable volumes we are adjusting the first half volumes to reflect the extra days.
For a complete summary of first quarter results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis please refer to the Notes section of today's earnings release.
There are no changes or updates to our 2011 financial metrics provided on our April call.
We still anticipate full year interest expense to be closer to $185 million our full year effective tax rate will run close to 32%.
CapEx will approach $500 million.
And as we said before we expect 2011 free cash flow of at least $400 million the majority of free cash flow going to share repurchases.
Through the first 6 months of 2011 we've acquired a net $241 million of our stock.
At current exchange rates yearend net debt is expected to be approximately $3 billion up slightly due to the Aerocan acquisition.
The balance sheet is solid our capital structure is highly competitive the operations are providing strong results and cash flow.
We will continue our long-standing approach to balanced capital deployment and consistently return value to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
With that I'll turn it over to Ray to talk more about the packaging operations.
Thanks Scott.
Overall our packaging business continued to perform in line with expectations despite some challenging economies and weather in selected parts of the globe.
Execution on capital spending projects is progressing as planned and all projects are within budget.
From an overall beverage can market perspective through June we are seeing volumes up in international markets in North America we are doing better than the market.
On a comparable basis our North American beverage can volumes were flat in the quarter about 2% through 6 months.
Through the first half operating earnings in the Americas are also well ahead of last year and that's a trend we expect to see to continue through the remainder of the year.
We are working hard on lowering our manufacturing cost structure and leveraging innovation in North America.
The Torrance California plant will be closed in the fourth quarter; relocation of the 12-ounce can line to Whitby Ontario is complete; a new specialty can line will be up and running in our Fort Worth Texas plant by September; and a second Alumi-Tek bottle can line will also be up and running in our Golden Colorado plant by the end of the year.
Year-to-date volumes in China are up over 35% due to strong market demand and the acquisition of the Foshan joint venture beverage can plant in June of last year.
Our China manufacturing capacity is stretched and we are speeding up existing equipment wherever feasible and bringing on more capacity with the new beverage can plant in Qingdao China by the end of the year.
We continue to foresee short a longer-term growth prospects in Asia net -- and we plan to grow with our customers which will most certainly require further investments as we look to 2012 and beyond.
In the quarter Brazil beverage can volumes were softer than expected due to higher beer pricing and a wet winter cold season.
We expect a better second half as we move into the summer season in Brazil with year-over-year volume increases in the 5% to 7% range.
The construction of a new beverage can plant in Alagoinhas has commenced and we look forward to the startup of this plant in the first quarter of next year.
In our European operations trends are also positive.
European beverage can volumes up 5% on a comparable basis through the first 6 months.
The production output of the newly installed second beverage line in our Belgrade Serbia plant is meeting expectations.
Despite cool summer weather in Europe so far this year supply/demand balance remains relatively tight.
Aluminum aerosol volumes are up over 20% year-over-year in our Ball Aerocan business which we acquired in January of this year.
With discontinuing[ph] strong demand we plan further aerosol capacity additions for 2012.
Now the food and household products results in the second quarter were solid and volumes held up reasonably well in the quarter.
Food can volumes were flat and aerosol volumes were slightly lower.
Second quarter operating earnings benefited from lower administrative and manufacturing costs sales price mix improvements and earnings from the aluminum slug business which we acquired in July of last year.
We expected softness in the food can pack we anticipate second half earnings in this segment will be below last year.
The full year results are still forecasted to be better than the year ago.
To sum up our people continue to step up and deliver.
And while we have numerous projects moving forward around the globe we are on track to deliver these on time and within budget which will set us up nicely for 2012 and beyond.
With that John I'll pass it back to you.
Great.
Thanks Ray.
A few comments on aerospace and then the outlook.
Our aerospace and technologies business posted double-digit EBIT margins in the second quarter.
Earnings increased primarily due to continued excellent program performance.
Backlog ended the quarter just over $900 million.
Washington continues to be an interesting and challenging place to observe and conduct business.
From a funding perspective our 2011 programs and most of the 2012 projects are in good shape.
While aerospace's capabilities are strategically important to our customer base and provide upside for the segment over the next couple of years the goal of Ball's businesses are focused on delivering cost effective solutions and the highest quality service well in an environment where our aerospace customers are more focused than ever on best cost and best value.
In terms of program highlights we successfully tested our prototype docking sensor during the May space shuttle mission guiding space shuttle Endeavor to a docking operation with the International Space Station.
NASA has identified this technology as critical for future space exploration missions.
Now our funding remains -- risks remain our people in aerospace are delivering on their commitments exceptionally well.
So in summary our company and people are performing very well despite some external challenges and we are bullish on the opportunities in front of us to further improve results.
We will continue to deploy capital to enhance our diverse portfolio of businesses and return value to our shareholders.
At the midway point of the year we are well on our way to achieving our long-term goal of 10% to 15% earnings growth and we expect second half performance will exceed that of last year's second half.
So with that Lyn we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi from Baird.
On Brazil and kind of thinking back to the first quarter I think the beer market there was weak.
I think some of your customers attributed unfavorable weather down there.
Do you think that what your -- you and the industry saw in the second quarter is inventory reduction related just based on what happened in 1Q? I think it's a number of things Ghansham.
It's -- they've talked to our guys in Brazil it's been the wettest coldest winter ever kind of down there.
So they -- the market -- the whole market in the second quarter was down 7% 8% believe or not and that's kind of a first for a long time.
So it was a combination of increased taxes on basically beverages beer and soft drinks but primarily our business is beer there so it hurt us.
And we think that that's pretty much washed out and we expect to have a much better second half.
Okay.
And then switching to North America obviously your customers have pursued a strategy of price or volume and just listening to the comments over the last couple of weeks or so they may seem to be rethinking that just given the weakened  -- your spending environment in North America.
Have you seen any sort of improvement in July or is that still too early? I think it's a little early.
Let's -- with -- John mentioned that with Washington and all the uncertainty is causing a lot of disruption in the Americas let's face it.
Until that gets straightened out I think just consumers are nervous whether it's buying soft drinks or buying a new house or whatever it is so I think it's just a little tough in all businesses in the Americas until the U.S.
gets its act together.
But yes we're seeing the mark it's a little soft it's been a little bit better through July for us but it hasn't picked up to the volumes we'd like to see.
Let's with the...
The next question comes from the line of George Staphos from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
The first question I had is around capital deployment and the execution on the projects.
As we think about 2012 it seems like it would be difficult for you to have the same level of activity and if parenthetically spending that you saw or seeing in 2011.
On the other hand you're executing well so maybe that increases your appetite for the next project.
How should we think about this equation realizing it's a little bit early to be -- to guiding to free cash flow and CapEx for 2012? George when you think about our CapEx this year it's not just in emerging markets and driven by growth.
As I had mentioned in my comment yes we're doing everything in aerospace we're doing some things in terms of specialty here in North America.
I think in every one of our businesses say probably for food can.
We have capital projects that as you said we are executing on very well.
As you think about going into 2012 we are opportunity focused and we're trying to drive it with our customers.
We -- as we sit here today I would not anticipate that we're going to have the wide variety of different capital projects going on that as Ray mentioned we continue to see opportunities in Asia so that is an area of focus for us for example.
So John if I could do you think that actually might mean lower spending next year where...
Yes I think it could.
How much lower is what we just don't know right now because opportunities pop up and we want to be responsive to those.
But it would also suggest that -- well your priorities for the use of that excess cash wouldn't have -- wouldn't change on a going-forward basis would it? Absolutely not.
In fact what Scott said is we believe our company has created a lot of value over the years by returning it to shareholders by making acquisitions and by investing in our business and we look at those as 3 buckets as we go forward just like we have in the past.
Last question I'll turn it over.
On aerospace I think you said if I heard you correctly that the backlog is now around $900 million just under -- I recall from the last quarter is about $1 billion.
If you could relay what the delta has been I guess you're starting to work on those projects and that's the reason why the backlog is declining.
But if you could help me understand what the delta there is.
And you mentioned the risk that M&amp;A from what's going on in Washington how would those actually materialize in your business? Would it mean a stretching out of the revenue on project work or could we see if the wrong things happen a reduction in your backlog as projects are canceled? Well yes.
Your point is spot on and the summer is debt ceiling in Washington.
Our backlog is a funded backlog and so you've seen a decline quarter-over-quarter because the government just hasn't been funding some of the longer-term things.
And so as I mentioned in our prepared remarks that we believe 2011 and 2012 we're in pretty good shape on that but until there's more clarity around what the government's priorities are going forward I do think that there is a little bit of risk in the outer year's.
I.e.
going into '13 and beyond with some of the projects that we won.
But as we sit here today many of the projects that we won are very strategic and they have finite lives relative to  replacements.
And for that reason we feel pretty good that we're in good shape relative to others.
The next question comes from the line of Alton Stump from Longbow Research.
I guess I've asked this question I think the couple of quarters in a row but any update on the Eastern European market in bev cans whether or not you're seeing any improvement there? Well this is John I'll take the first crack.
The short answer is yes we are starting to see improvements there.
I think In Eastern Europe and that includes the Serbia region as well as I think in the quarter it was up around 11% or so.
And so we are starting to see some improvement there.
But recall back in the mid-2000s and even up until the financial crisis we're not seeing the 30% growth that we had been seeing.
But it is good healthy consistent growth.
Okay.
And then just I guess one quick follow-up.
With your comments on profitability being down in the back half in your food can business I understand that there's going to be a late harvest this year therefore a shift from 3Q into 4Q most likely but I get confused as to why overall for the back half profits would be down? Well it's primarily because some of our customers aren't planning as much product as they have.
They're taking product out of the system so we don't have as much planning in some of the fields as we normally do but -- that's one of the reasons.
The next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon from Vertical Research Partners.
First question has to do with the China situation Ray you talked about the 35% growth.
Could you talk about that in terms of how much is -- I assume is from -- some of it is from acquisitions and how that growth compares to the overall market? Yes I think the market's up somewhere between -- the market's up around 15% I think year-to-date.
We're up higher and some of that's obviously our acquisition.
We acquired a joint venture plant with 3 can lines and so it's -- I think it might be the largest can plant in China.
I'm not sure of that I think it's certainly but it's one of the largest.
So that obviously contributes to our growth.
But as we look at what's going on in China as we talk to our customers as we project the market it's -- the beverage can market is relatively small in China on a relative basis.
We got beer penetration at -- the cans are like 2%.
And so it's going to continue to grow and we are here may capture our fair share of that.
And that's exactly what we plan to do.
We think we're lined up with some wonderful customers and we plan to as I said capture our share as that's progressing.
So if you don't need a rocket scientist to figure it's going to continue to increase we just got to pick up our spots and make sure we've picked the bright spots.
SO that's what we're trying to do and that's what we will do.
And when you look at the Vietnam opportunity that you guys are pursuing right now it seems like others have also targeted Vietnam but it seems like one that had might be slowing back or backing off a little bit.
Do you find as a result the market there is healthy and that the competitive situation there is constructive? Yes.
We're -- I'm very confident with our Vietnam operations.
We have signed contracts for the volume.
My guess is that line will be filled up pretty much we get the plant the plant started up and -- it's -- so it's been a very strong market.
We're -- again we're just trying to pick up a little bit of our share and I don't see any issues for us in Vietnam.
I just think we got to get the plant built and get it up and running.
That's all.
To amplify on that from a consumer perspective.
Consumer spending has continued the increases in Vietnam.
The can is quickly becoming a preferred package there so we're seeing can penetration continue to increase.
And so you combine those 2 factors and the overall health of the end markets in Vietnam remain quite positive right now.
Got you.
And then real quickly and this might be a little off the wall but I'd tell you the name if I could remember but one of the industrial companies that one of my colleagues covers mentioned the other morning that the government sent them a paper check for $100 million a payment that normally would have been wired.
Are you seeing any changes in how the government pays you? Are they actually sending you checks when before they would wire you money? Are you saying the U.S.
Government? The U.S.
Government.
Yes.
No we haven't seen any changes if all that's happening.
The next question comes from the line of Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> With volume's off to a slow start in North America bev I just want to get a better sense of how operating rates are stacking up for your industry as well as for Ball and do you think there's a need to take out some capacity later this year? This is John.
It's -- for us as Ray said year-to-date we're up a couple of percent and we had always said that as we entered into 2011 we'd expect to be up mid-single digits relative to the market and we are.
We've taken out a fair amount of capacity 4 plants over the last couple of few years and Torrance is coming down in the fourth quarter of this year.
So from our operating rates we're in pretty good shape here in North America but we're also wise enough to constantly be monitoring those things.
And we know longer term if we need to do some things we're going to have to take the tough decisions and do them.
But as we sit here right now we have no plans to be doing that.
Inc.</strong> And could you remind me if there is any sizable contracts up for renewal? I know most of that got shored up last year if I remember correctly.
This year? Inc.</strong> This coming year for 2012.
We do have one fairly sizable contract up for renewal in 2012.
Inc.</strong> That's for North America right? Yes.
Yes and that's for...
The next question comes from Alex Ovshey from Goldman Sachs.
Can you just talk about how you see these supply/demand dynamics evolving in Brazil for the next couple of years.
It looks like so in the second quarter was soft but there were some seasonal factors there and then you're talking about growth in the back half of 5% to 7% which I think this is slower than what it was in 2009 and 2010.
And I think the capacity that's going in to the Brazilian market is somewhere in the low to -- or low-single digits double digits range.
So are you concerned that there may be some more overcapacity that ends up happening in Brazil in that type of scenario? Alex this is Ray.
I'm not overly concerned because remember our capacity is tied up with long-term contracts so if there's overcapacity no it doesn't -- it's not affecting us because we are -- we have contacts that make sure it doesn't happen.
So if you ask me what I -- if you ask me as a crystal ball for Brazil I would say that for us you're talking about I don't see us building another plant immediately.
I see us trying to get some more can lines in the plants we already have.
I would say that you could see us maybe adding a can line a year for a couple of years and then we'll see what happens.
Remember we still got the Olympics.
We still got the World Cup coming to Brazil.
There is still a lot stuff going on.
The economy there's low inflation so we got to be careful of what we're doing here but I would say it's -- there's still some growth left and I would -- I could see us adding a couple of -- about a line a year which is it 800 million cans.
And let's not forget that there is a fair amount of imports as we said it in the prior calls.
The fair amount of imports in 2010 and so there's a shortage going in in 2011.
So a decent chunk of this new capacity coming on is just to absorb what was already being demanded back in 2010.
That's helpful.
And just on the European bev side it looks like your volumes are pretty healthy.
Are you seeing any impact from the recent macro flare up -- out in Europe on the demand trends here in July and then the start of the third quarter at all? No we're not.
As you know we are primarily focused on Western Europe and Eastern Europe.
We don't do much in Southern Europe so where some of this decantation is occurring we really don't do much of there but even from where we look from the outside looking in we don't see big changes going on there.
The next question comes from the line of Dan Schniewind from AMI Asset Management.
It looks like you guys continue to improve from a bond holder standpoint and it looks like you guys are -- your metrics look more like an investment-grade company than a high-yield company.
Is there any internal interest in actually getting that upgrade? And have you guys been in contact with the rating agencies about that? We talk to the rating agencies all the time.
We have found that we can have a tremendous value and have a lot of flexibility with where we're rated right where we're at.
We've always been able to raise capital at pretty competitive rates but it gives us a lot of flexibility to pursue acquisitions to buy back our stocks to invest in our existing businesses.
So we're real happy right where we're at right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Ruschmeier from Barclays Capital.
Just a few questions.
I'm curious if you can comment on what you're seeing in general line cans are you surprised to see some of the industry numbers? And maybe provide an update if you could on Neuman aluminum and some of your slug business? Yes this Ray.
Let's start with the slug business.
Slugs worldwide are tight.
I mean fundamentally is -- there's not any excess -- a lot of excess slug capacity.
So as this market grows we're going to have to consider adding some more slug capacity I would say.
So we're looking at various options.
We're trying to improve our asset utilization of what we have and we're making some investments in what we have to try to make that more efficient so we're going to do that first.
But slug capacity not just in Europe or North America everywhere it's tight.
So slug capacity is going to have to be added so we're trying to figure that out.
That's the first thing.
General line we don't really have a very big general line business and when I think general line I'm thinking thin cans and things like that.
We do have a very small general line business but it's very very small.
So quite frankly I haven't seen anything unbeknownst in that business it's just sort of -- it's doing relatively well.
But for us it's very very small.
John do you have anything to add to that? No I think that's a good summary.
We generally are not in the general line business.
Okay.
And just to clarify your second half guidance your food -- the food can business.
How much of the decline year-over-year is related to drought conditions and what's going on with agriculture? I mean is that really -- or is there something else that I'm missing? It's not magic.
We just -- the numbers are going to kind of roll off a little different than it did the last year.
Our food can business is having another excellent excellent year.
If you look at year-to-date results it's way way ahead of last year.
And some of that's there's various reasons for that.
And as we look at -- as we talk to our customers and we look at what they expect and we look at our quarters as Scott said we have 6 less days in the fourth quarter that's going to affect that business.
So when we look at it we're not going to do as well as we did last year but we're still going to do significantly better than we did the year before.
Just trying to give you a heads up that we're not going to do as much as last year for those reasons.
Yes but let's put it in context.
As Ray said that our food and household products business is doing quite well and recall earlier this spring late spring early summer the whole Mississippi Valley was flooded.
And so the plantings got in late now it's been very hot.
And so we're just being a little pragmatic relative to what our expectations of the harvest will be.
And that's in part based on the facts that we can see and in part based on the conversations we're having with our customers.
And so there's nothing strange going on it's just we're taking a view on the harvest in the third and fourth quarter.
Okay.
And lastly if I could looking at metal beverage Europe looking at margins kind of in a year-over-year basis is like down 120 basis points.
So I'd imagine some of that is just because of price causing margins to be lower on a reported basis even though they might be more constant.
But is there something else going on there or can help you us to understand that that 120 basis point variance is what's impacting it? By far the biggest difference is raw material pass-through.
I think if you look just at the LME [ph] I think it's up 25% year-over-year and you know our cost pass through model that puts -- as you see our overall profitability is actually better.
The margins are down in large part because the sales are inflated because of the pass-through positions.
That is far and away the largest part of it.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from the line of George Staphos from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
A couple of additional ones.
First as we think about the recent repricing in tinplate over in Europe were there any issues that you need to contend with as you manage your business? How did that go or how has it been going for you thus far? We had no midyear price increases in steel in Europe.
Okay.
So I guess it's going pretty well for you then.
Secondly in terms of free cash flow Scott do you think about -- maybe this year is a somewhat depressed year because of the projects and next year maybe they're more normalized.
If you consider the future what kind of growth rate do you think you can have on your free cash flow over a 3- to 5-year period? And what do you think the biggest drivers of that are? Well I think as you -- as we talked about we've got quite a bit of growth CapEx happening this year.
A number of those projects that John talked about are kind of onetime impacts to this year.
We expect to still see growth in places like Brazil and China longer-term but frankly once you put a plant in that's the big throw and then when you add additional lines it's not a big a throw.
We see the CapEx even with continued growth in those markets to come down quite a bit.
And all the capital we're spending all of those projects have nice returns and start flowing cash right away.
We expect our free cash flow number to be even back up this year the $300 million plus of growth of CapEx.
And we expect the earnings to get to another level based on at all these new projects so we see nice growth over the next few years.
With our balance sheet and our capital structure right where we want it gives us a lot of flexibility to return value to shareholders.
The next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
I wondered if you could just update us on that Aluminum Aerosol business and what kind of growth rates you're seeing for sort of the market and then your own business there? Yes this is Ray.
The -- our growth rates they're quite frankly have been even -- we knew it was a growth business but it's been -- and quite a bit better than even we had forecasted when we put the acquisition model together.
We're growing -- and we've got growth rates year-to-date in excess of 20% and I think the second quarter it was like 18%.
So we're -- it's been very strong for us.
John I don't know -- the market I don't know.
Yes it varies obviously by region.
South America continues to be quite strong Europe continues to be quite strong.
I think North America like most of the end markets in the touch -- consumer here in North America it's been a touch soft but we continue to see good growth prospects in that business generally speaking.
Okay your footprint right now is just in Europe and in North America? That is correct.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh from JP Morgan.
Just wanted to follow up one more question in Brazil.
As a contingency plan I guess in the event that the volumes aren't what you're expecting the 5% to 7% in the second half if it's something closer to flat or even down is there anything that you would change about what you're doing down there or are you comfortable with the contracts such that it's locked and loaded in terms of 100% of your volumes or just how would you manage something like that? The best way I can describe it without going into massive detail it's locked and loaded.
Okay.
And then just one quick question on the minority interest could you remind us obviously the earnings get if they get hit on the segment and they probably get hit on the minority interest line but just remind us what drives the minority interest line? It's the 40% of Brazil that we don't own.
The next question is a follow-up question from the line of George Staphos from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
One last question around capacity and 12-ounce in the states.
Two parts to it.
I think last call we talked a little bit about the longer-term optionality you might have if you need on the one hand to take out some 12-ounce capacity you might be able to utilize that on the food part of the house.
Is there any additional thinking as regards to the potential for that to occur in the next 2 to 3 years? And as you think about your contracts for 2012 I think you mentioned earlier that there's business that's up for renewal I guess at the end of this year into 2012.
I just want to confirm that and if you would kind of size it.
Yes.
We -- there's really nothing going on this year.
We have some things we're negotiating but there's nothing impacting this year.
We do have some businesses up at the end of 2012.
So we'll have to negotiate in 2012.
Yes.
And George about your question really about redeployment of equipment.
We have a system around the world that we can do many different things and this specific answer your question could we -- are we considering moving some beverage can into food can? We don't have any specific plans on the table but we certainly know if we want to do something like that where we want to it how we want to do it and the cost of which.
The other benefit that we have is the ability to take some of our equipment here in North America if we have to and deploy it in other parts of the world.
We have been doing that as Ray had mentioned in terms of up-speeding doing some other things in Asia.
We have some levers to pull on that that gives us in a way a capital avoidance as we continue to grow in some of these emerging markets.
So that's one of the benefits of having the system that we do.
And so we are looking at those types of things.
It's a good point.
As I recall I think Milwaukee was one of the facilities where you had done this and maybe perhaps Columbus.
But if you could remind me if you've audited the returns on these types of conversions from bev to food have they actually met your initial expectations or were they off a bit one way or another? Well as you might imagine George the initial answer is in the beginning they did not meet our initial expectations but as you said now they are.
Yes in fact I think they're even exceeding our expectations today.
So -- but yes you're right it's actually just to clarify it's Milwaukee and Finley is where we did those a dozen years ago or so.
And they're performing quite nicely.
I should have remembered Finley.
Okay.
Thank you.
Mr.
Hayes it appears at this time that there are no further questions.
I'll turn the call back over to you.
Okay well thank you all very much.
Just one housekeeping item.
We are planning on having an investor field trip out here in Colorado.
The dates will be October 10 and 11 and please contact Ann Scott to register for the event.
Other than that thank you very much for participating and we look forward to talking to you all 3 months from now.
Take care.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Thank you and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Ball Corporation Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday October 27 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Hayes President and CEO.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thank you Edison.
This is Ball Corporation's conference call regarding the company's third quarter 2011 results.
The information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Some factors that could cause the results or outcomes to differ are in the company's latest 10-K and in other company SEC filings as well as the company news releases.
If you don't already have our earnings release it's available on our website at ball.com.
Information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
Now joining me on the call today are Scott Morrison Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Ray Seabrook Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Global Packaging.
In a moment Scott will discuss our results and Ray will follow-up with details about our packaging operations.
I'll close with comments on Aerospace and the outlook for the balance of the year and beyond.
As mentioned in our press release Ball reported improved third quarter results despite a difficult economic environment in most of our key markets.
After starting slow global demand for beverage cans accelerated towards the end of the quarter and it improved throughout the quarter in every market or nearly every market.
The numerous CapEx projects in Packaging and Aerospace are proceeding nicely and are on budget and on time.
Recent M&amp;A investments continue to perform very well and are above expectations.
As many of you know we held an Investor Conference out here in Colorado 2 weeks ago.
Over 40 investors and analysts participated and we certainly appreciate all of you who came.
At our conference we discussed our Drive for 10 vision for the company in the areas in which we are providing increased emphasis.
And as we look to the future we know and are focused on those things that have made us successful in the past including prudent risk management and disciplined capital deployment.
I will not go into all that we discussed on today's call but if you'd like a transcript please feel free to reach out to Ann Scott our Director of Investor Relations and she can provide you with the transcript and background materials that were reviewed.
Our global employee team continues to do a great job of executing on our strategy including maximizing the value of our existing businesses while capitalizing on growth in emerging markets and offering our customers a variety of new products from which they can grow and win in the marketplace.
These efforts are providing Ball with opportunities to finish up the year strong and to grow in 2012 and beyond.
With that I'll turn it over to Scott.
Thanks John.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share in the second quarter were $0.81 versus last year's $0.70 16% year-over-year improvement.
The following factors contributed to improved results: the consolidation of our majority-owned Brazilian JV; the acquisition of the Extruded Aluminum business in Europe; volume improvements in North America Brazil and China; exceptional program performance in our Aerospace business; benefits of share repurchases; a lower effective tax rate largely driven by tax benefits from foreign exchange on a local currency basis in Brazil; and a $0.02 FX translation benefit in the quarter.
These positive factors were partially offset by a year-over-year increase in net interest expense due to our recent acquisition and the consolidation of Brazil.
As a reminder the first 9 months of performance was favorably impacted by 6 additional accounting days in the first quarter compared to the first quarter of 2010.
The fourth quarter will include 6 fewer accounting days than the prior-year.
So when we talk about comparable volumes we are adjusting first 9 months' volumes to reflect the extra days.
For a complete summary of the third quarter results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis please refer to the Notes section of today's earnings release.
Turning to full-year financial metrics we expect CapEx will approach $500 million.
We also expect 2011 free cash flow to be at least $400 million.
We plan to repurchase at least $450 million of our shares and through the first 9 months of 2011 we acquired a net $381 million of stock.
At current exchange rates year-end net debt is expected to be a little over $3 billion.
And the full-year effective tax rate will run under 31%.
Our solid balance sheet and highly competitive capital structure allowed the company to operate from a position of strength.
We will continue executing our long-standing value-creation model of balanced capital deployment and consistently returning value to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
With that I'll turn it over to Ray to talk more about the Packaging operations.
Thanks Scott.
Beverage can volumes were up in the quarter in the Americas and the Asia segment and are up through the first 9 months.
In the quarter U.S.
volumes were up slightly Brazil volumes were up in the mid-single digits and China volumes were up in the mid-teens.
Segment operating earnings were hurt in the quarter due to out-of-pattern freight incurred while supporting our manufacturing realignment projects as well as unfavorable sales mix in Brazil.
Out-of-pattern freight should now subside with the completion of these projects in the U.S.
The North American capital spending projects are virtually complete.
The new Whitby and Fort Worth can lines have been installed and are running well.
Then new Alumi-Tek bottle can line being installed in our Golden Colorado plant will be making commercial cans in early November.
The new can lines being built in Brazil and Vietnam are on schedule and on budget.
Our new China can plant being built in Qingdao is now expected to be online in January 2012.
We look forward to continuing strong volume growth in China in 2012 and expect to be able to sell every can we make in China again next year.
The cool wet summer in Northern Europe negatively impacted our beverage can volumes in the quarter but had little impact on the Aluminum Aerosol volumes.
Beverage can volumes were down high-single digits in the quarter but continued to be up slightly through the first 9 months while Aerocan's aluminum aerosol volumes were up 20% compared to last year in the quarter and year-to-date.
Weather conditions also impacted volumes in the U.S.
the Metal Food and Household Products segment.
The South was too hot and dry and the Midwest too wet.
Overall our volumes in the quarter were off mid-single digits and manufacturing costs were a little higher due to production curtailments.
As we start the fourth quarter the weather has been much better in North America and Europe and so far beverage can sales are ahead of expectations.
Our plants are performing very well and we look forward to finishing this year with a positive traction as we get set for another very busy year in 2012.
With that I'll turn it back to John.
Thanks Ray.
A few comments on Aerospace and then the outlook.
Our Aerospace and Technology business posted double-digit EBIT margins in the third quarter.
Earnings increased primarily due to the continued excellent program performance.
Backlog ended the quarter at $986 million versus backlog at the end of the second quarter of $903 million.
Ball Aerospace's capabilities are strategically important to our customers and our focus on delivering best cost best value solutions is allowing our backlog to continue to grow.
From a funding perspective most of the 2012 projects are in good shape.
In terms of program highlights NPP is scheduled for launch tomorrow from Vandenberg Air Force Base.
NPP is a new generation of earth-observing satellites that will have the ability to measure a wide variety of atmospheric issues including ozone and other climate-related items.
Also during the quarter we delivered software that is key to the James Webb Space Telescope program.
During our recent investor field trip guests viewed 1 of the 18-mirror segments that will perform in space as a single monolithic mirror.
So in summary for the corporation we overcame a pretty tough economic environment during the third quarter and feel good about the rest of the year.
July and August were pretty challenging and by September things started bouncing back.
Despite the 7% fewer accounting days in the fourth quarter we anticipated a strong close to 2011 and certainly momentum headed into 2012.
So with that Edison we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of George Staphos from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
I guess John maybe I'll start with the final question usually.
In terms of the outlook you said you expect to close strongly despite the fewer shipping days.
Should we take that as an increase in earnings year-on-year versus the fourth quarter? And just for the record what was the fourth quarter 2010 from an EPS standpoint from your vantage point? Yes.
It was -- I believe it was $0.53 last year George and that was I know up over -- well over 20% from the year-prior.
We do have 6 fewer days in the fourth quarter but despite this we feel good going into the fourth quarter.
Volumes have appeared to stabilize and are now growing again in most of our businesses which provide the momentum that I talked about.
The tough comp that we have in the fewer days create a hole from which we need to overcome but at this time we think we can accomplish that and we could do a little better but we'll see.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate the color.
With Aerospace we're pleased to see the backlog pick up.
To the extent that you can comment on these sorts of things where did you see the backlog pick up in terms of types of programs or markets? Well George I think it was a little bit more of a timing issue.
If you recall in the second quarter that's when the U.S.
deficit issue was ongoing in Congress and so a lot of the funding for those programs had stalled.
And once we got past at least that short-term hurdle we were able to see some of the funding come back.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now you mentioned that you feel pretty good about the funding through '12.
Should we read into that that you are less certain I guess that would be obvious but maybe more than we would want you to feel less certain about the outlook for '13 funding? Nothing abnormal George.
We're not aware of anything.
Just as we all know the U.S.
government is going through some difficult challenges but we know nothing that says anything is at risk more than it typically would be.
I've talked in the past about a lot of what we do are very strategic to what we do as a country and some of these are replacement-type things.
And so we believe the funding should be good but again we're dealing with Washington so one never knows.
Research Division</strong> Last one.
What are your customers telling you about Europe and the outlook for next year in terms of Beverage Cans in particular? Where do you see operating rates? One of your packaging peers although in a different substrate today was talking about perhaps taking prices up for 2012.
How do you think that all flushes out as you think about the year next year? Yes.
George this is Ray.
I think that -- we were -- without this volume shortfall that happened to us in July and August we were thinking of adding capacity because we were fundamentally sold out.
We're going to try to run next year with not adding capacity but we're going to be tight.
So we're not thinking about reducing prices that's for sure.
The next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with RW Baird.
Research Division</strong> Ray can you just clarify what volumes in Beverage were down for Europe in the third quarter? Was it high-single digits is that what you said? Yes Europe was down 8% Ghansham.
Research Division</strong> Down 8%.
And can you parse that between the different regions and maybe beer versus soft drinks too? Well since we're heavily -- more heavily weighted to beer it was more beer than soft drinks.
And we're much more -- we're really not -- we're not located so much in the South most of our business is in the North.
And so I think that was -- I think the South was actually a little bit better.
I think when you get into Spain and some of those countries I don't think the volumes were down quite as bad.
But when you talk about England and Northern Europe they had a -- just a terrible July and August for weather and it really impacted us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up to George's question on promotional activity you sort of touched on Europe.
But what are your major customers saying about North America?  Because it seems like you and your peers are just mirroring what your customers are seeing in terms of volume weakness maybe there's a little bit of inventory correction but in terms of promotional activity looking out to 2012 is there a reason to be a little bit more optimistic in North America? Yes I think it depends on the customer.
Some of our customers are actually quite optimistic and some of them are not as optimistic.
So you'd almost have to go through it piece by piece.
But I think we're looking for flat to maybe slightly down.
The market was down close to 3.5% this year or 3.8% year-to-date.
We're not looking for any kind of decline anywhere near that next year.
It could be down 1% or flat but that's -- it depends on the customer quite frankly Ghansham.
Next question comes from the line of Alton Stump of Longbow Research.
Just -- with the Bev Can volumes in Europe just to clarify I think you mentioned that they are trending ahead of expectations so far in the fourth quarter.
Does that mean that you think you'll see core growth or had the decline lessened versus 3Q? I think the weather in July and August in Northern Europe was -- talking to people that were there which I wasn't but it was the worst they had seen in a long long time.
And I think it really did it really impacted.
By the week -- every time it got to a weekend it was cold and rainy and it really impacted our volumes.
Remember the -- our European business is our most seasonal business.
70% of what we do is in the middle 2 quarters.
So it had an impact on us.
In the fourth quarter the weather seemed to get better.
We were over there in September and the weather seemed to break.
So ever since September and October the volume has been much stronger than we otherwise would have expected to see.
So we're expecting to finish up good this year and get back to more of a normal year next year.
The next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You guys have made a lot of investments in Asia and Brazil in the theory it's a faster growing market and nicer margins in general.
When should we expect some of those returns flowing through and improved margins in that segment? And is this more of a low-teen mid-teen type of business going forward? Yes.
I would -- again this is Ray.
I think the -- I don't think you're going to see it so much in margins what I think where you're going to see it is in the top line.
I mean fundamentally we're growing the business.
I mean our margins are -- we think our margins are okay where they're at.
And what you're going to see you're going to see it at the top line.
Top line as well as EBIT growth.
I think what Ray is saying is we don't expect to see a significant amount of margin expansion.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Ant then can you talk about trends in Brazil.
Certainly in Q2 it was a little soft it sounds like things have picked up a bit in 3Q.
I just want to get your thoughts heading into the peak summer season.
Yes as a matter of fact I was talking to somebody from Brazil yesterday and they said that the weather has started to get a lot better.
Our volumes certainly picked up near the end of the quarter.
We were up high-single digits and we're expecting to be up.
And year-to-date we're not up as much because we had a very slow second quarter but we're expecting to pick a lot of that up in the fourth quarter.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Could you -- first question is could you talk a little bit about what you think has changed with your customers especially beer? Is it just you think the debt crisis and the macro discussions that were going on in August or is there something else going on that would've explained sort of the weak July August and then the much stronger September.
I know the weather was a factor but normally I think your customers tend to let their inventories go down especially in Europe this time of year.
Yes.
This is John.
I'll take that then maybe turn it over to Ray.
It really was the weather -- I presume you're talking about Europe so I'll focus my comments on Europe.
Yes primarily.
It really was a weather issue.
It's a -- the way that the beer gets sold throughout the summer people were not having their barbecues on the weekends people were not out in the pubs.
It literally was in Fahrenheit terms 55 degrees 65 degrees and raining the whole time.
And that is just not conducive to beer drinking.
And so when we talked to our customers and you look at some of the public comments of many of our customers that operate in Western and Northwestern Europe you see exactly what we're talking about.
Got you.
And as you -- you gave us a good roadmap in Colorado a couple of weeks ago.
And could you just update us on the specific timing I believe in addition to China which you mentioned first quarter -- and this may be more for Ray -- when you expect the Brazil plant and the Vietnam plant to start up? And maybe it's early days but what sort of comes behind this? You suggested that given your market share you could justify doing 3 plants a year.
Well Brazil -- actually Brazil plant comes up in March and the Vietnam plant comes up in March.
And we saw again some numbers yesterday and when our board ran we -- Vietnam is sold out as we speak.
And Brazil we have our long-term contract and we expect that to be sold out as well.
And so when we turn to China and we look at our -- remember one of our strategies is to keep our capacity utilization in balance.
And I could see potentially relocating another line from the U.S.
into China next year and we do have to continue to expand China.
I think I said when you were out here expect 1.4 billion cans to be additional volume next year for us.
And then the year after that we've got the same thing going on so we've got to get capacity in to meet it.
And do you expect as you do this that most of what you're building is actually taking share from other substrates or -- No no not at all.
-- is all of it growth? Or is all of it just market growth? It's -- well it's a combination of both right? It's can penetration and it's also market growth.
Your next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could just elaborate on the out-of-pattern freight that you talked about.
How much did that impact the quarter? It was probably in the mid-single digits in terms of cost millions of bucks.
There's a -- we have a little bit of inflation.
Remember in a lot of our contracts we have a lag in terms of pass-through of inflation.
So there's a little of bit of that too but nothing out of -- really out of the ordinary.
The out-of-pattern shipping and warehousing should -- it's pretty much done now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the America's Food side could you talk about the trends in Food versus Aerosol? You said down mid-single for the whole business but maybe just parse that out? Yes what we said was down 4% in the quarter.
For Food that wasn't the whole business.
Our Aerosol business is down a little bit more than that and the reason is that we had lost some business in the first quarter to a competitor.
Now I know that the CMI numbers it looks like the market's down more than it really is because the competitor that we lost that business to their numbers are not in the CMI numbers.
So the market's not -- the Aerosol market's not down that much.
The business that -- and the fortunate part for us is the business that we lost was pretty low-margin business for us.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then how are you thinking about fourth quarter trends on the Food side? Well the Food business -- remember we're more heavily weighted to veggies and the seasonal than probably some of our competitors are.
So when we finish the third quarter it's -- Aerosol is not that way but when you go talk about the Food side there's not a lot to be done.
So we've obviously got some shipping and some things to do but the Food business is fundamentally done for us at the end of the third quarter.
Not -- that's not the case with Aerosol.
So we expect the fourth quarter to kind of be a little -- be less than last year but we would still expect to make more in our Food Can business in this -- in 2011 than we did in '10.
Our next question is a follow-up question from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> It was great going down in Golden again and seeing the facility and it's amazing how efficient that plant is even though it dates back to the '60s.
I was wondering directionally can you comment -- is there further room to improve within North America on things like skeleton metal usage and line speeds; in other words how do you keep improving returns within an existing base of investment that's been around for a number of years? And how would you size that for us right now? I'll start then I'll pass it over to John George.
But one of the things that I'm always amazed at remember my -- if you go back I'm kind of a financial guy in my background.
But the strength of our company really rests on our plant floor.
When you go into those plants and those guys that work there I'm always amazed at the quality of people and the expertise of our people.
So the law of diminishing returns is obviously it gets harder and harder all the time but I guarantee you every year we put together our plans and operating plan and there's always performance improvements that those plants have generated.
So if there's one thing I can tell you is that the one thing I have all the confidence in the world in it's our people that work in the plants and they just do a tremendous job.
Yes they really do.
And in fact if you look over the past couple of years since we've acquired the former Metal Container plant some of those efficiencies have actually accelerated.
We've put some new systems in place to help provide the data in a more predictive way and our guys are just doing a fantastic job.
And so we expect as we go forward to be able to continue to get more efficiency out of these plants.
And it's -- people always think that there has to be a curve that starts to slow down and I'm sure there is one but our guys have proven that we haven't seen the end yet.
Research Division</strong> John could you size the improvement in productivity one way or another? Either output can grow a percent a year or you can keep the output the same but reduce the investment by a percent a year?  How would you if you would have us think about that? Here's what happens George.
As we make improvements and the output improves that means that -- if the market's not growing that means we -- that means that we free up assets.
And I just said that fundamentally I probably expect to relocate another can line probably to an emerging market this year and the reason I expect to do that is the efficiencies we're talking about.
Research Division</strong> A fair point Ray.
I guess the other question I had maybe to wrap up from our side what are the imperatives that you're seeing for 2012 and are there going to be any changes in incentive comp or how are you going to align incentive comp around those imperatives as you look at it?  I realize it's not January yet but if you have an early read on that we'd appreciate it.
George as you know our incentive comp from our level all the way down to the plant floor in many cases is based on return on investment.
And we've been investing a lot this year and so next year is about getting the returns from those investments.
So a lot of next year is about execution on the projects that have gone in.
Whether it is the Alumi-Tek line in Golden that's up later this month or early in November whether it's about Whitby and Fort Worth that Ray talked about whether it's about Brazil whether it's about Qingdao whether it's about Vietnam it's time to start generating the return from those investments that are just getting in and put on the ground.
Our next question is a follow-up question from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
When you go back and look over the last 2 years and what's kind of interesting is 2 years ago was just after you closed on Metal Container or were about to.
You basically have used all your free cash flow and maybe you've even then some to buy back stock and I guess just as you think about it fundamentally next year is that something that we would expect to see continue? And said differently let's say you don't find a -- obviously if you find a major acquisition that makes sense you don't want to push the envelope too far.
But barring that is there any reason why you wouldn't continue to use all your free cash flow essentially to buy back stock? No this is Scott.
Actually if you look back over the last 24 months by the end of this year I think we'll bought -- we'll have bought back about $1 billion of stock we've made a $0.5 billion of acquisitions and $0.5 billion of investments in growth capital.
So when I talked before about balanced capital deployment you can do a lot of things at the same time.
And the cash machine has been growing.
If you recall back when you were here at the Investor Conference I showed how the cash -- free cash flow had been growing over the last decade or so.
And with the investments that we're making we expect that to continue to grow and so it gives us even more capability to continue to do a variety of things at the same time and so orienting a lot of our free cash flow to buying back our stock.
We don't have much in the way of debt maturities our balance sheet's in good shape we have a lot of liquidity.
So I would expect the vast majority of our free cash flow if not all of it or more to be going back to be buying back our stock.
While still investing in a lot of growth projects.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn it over back to you Mr.
Hayes.
Okay great.
Thank you Edison and I appreciate it.
We appreciate all of your support and it was good to see all of you a couple of weeks ago and we look forward to talking to you on our January call.
Everyone have a good fourth quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Ball Corporation Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions]  As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday January 26 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Hayes President and CEO.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thank you Sema.
This Ball Corporation's conference call regarding the company's fourth quarter and full year 2011 results.
The information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Some factors that could cause the results or outcomes to differ are in the company's latest 10-Q and in other company SEC filings as well as company news releases.
If you don't already have our earnings release it's available on our website at ball.com.
Information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
Now joining me on the call today are Scott Morrison Senior Vice President and CFO; and Ray Seabrook Executive Vice President and COO of Global Packaging.
In a moment Scott will discuss our financial results for the quarter and for 2011.
Ray will follow up with details about our Packaging operating performance and I'll close with comments on Aerospace and the outlook for 2012 and beyond.
Ball reported improved 2011 results in a continued anemic economic environment.
Our solid performance was due largely to the great work from our employees around the world as well as the development and initial implementation of our Drive for 10 vision.
Now at its core our Drive for 10 vision is made up of 5 strategic levers that we believe will position us for continued growth.
These levers include maximizing value from our existing businesses expanding into new products and capabilities broadening our geographic reach aligning ourselves with the right customers and markets and finally leveraging our technological expertise.
We've been hard at work executing our strategy and during the fourth quarter we maximized value in our existing businesses by ensuring our supply-demand balance aligned with market needs taking manufacturing downtime in food and beverage plants resulting in excellent cash flow generation.
We expanded into new products to meet growing demand by successfully starting up our new reclosable Alumi-Tek bottle line in Golden Colorado.
We also aligned ourselves with the right customers and markets.
In December Ball Corporation signed a 10-year contract extension with MillerCoors LLC for the Rocky Mountain Metal Container joint venture and extended its commercial supply agreement with MillerCoors LLC as its sole supplier of cans.
We continue to expand our geographic reach as construction proceeded on schedule for new beverage can plants in China Brazil and Vietnam all of which will start up by the end of the first quarter.
And we leveraged our technological expertise with the successful launch of the Ball-built NPP satellite for NASA which will aid long-term climate forecasts and improve short-term weather forecasts.
2011 was a very good year for Ball.
In recognition of the company's performance and future growth potential our Board of Directors yesterday approved an increase in the dividend of nearly 43% and a new share repurchase authorization of up to 30 million shares.
I'll turn it over to Scott to talk about the quarter and then Ray will provide color on our operations.
And I'll return on comments on Aerospace and the outlook for 2012.
Scott? Thanks John.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for 2011 were $2.73 versus last year's $2.36 an increase of more than 15%.
In the fourth quarter comparable diluted earnings were $0.48 versus last year's $0.53 which included a tax benefit of $0.07 related to debt refinancing.
For the full year the following factors contributed to improved results: volume improvements in Brazil and China strong operating performance at our Metal Packaging businesses exceptional program performance in our Aerospace business and a lower share count.
Fourth quarter results were impacted by 6 fewer accounting days in the quarter compared to 2010 and our decision to run for cash as Packaging volumes were weaker than forecast in the U.S.
and Europe.
Turning to full year free cash flow Ball generated over $500 million after spending nearly $250 million for growth capital.
During 2011 we returned every free cash flow dollar to shareholders via a net share buyback of $474 million and dividends of $46 million.
Net balance sheet debt at the end of the year was approximately $3 billion only a $317 million increase over 2010 despite our Aerocan acquisition growth capital and acquiring over $470 million of our stock.
Credit quality and liquidity of the company remained solid with a 2011 comparable EBIT to interest coverage of 4.9x and net debt to comparable EBITDA at 2.5x.
Committed credit and available liquidity at year end was in excess of $1 billion.
For a complete summary of fourth quarter and full year results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis please refer to the Notes section of today's earnings release.
Turning to some key financial metrics for 2012.
Interest expense will remain the same or approximately $175 million.
For 2012 full year effective tax rate should be in the range of 31%.
As mentioned in today's earnings release we announced plans to move our European headquarters from Germany to Switzerland in the second half of 2012.
Given continuing capital projects in China and to a lesser extent in Brazil full year 2012 CapEx is expected to be in the range of $400 million.
Each of these growth projects exceeds our investment hurdle within 3 years.
The timing of certain projects will impact actual spending and as always we'll keep you updated as the year progresses.
We expect 2012 free cash flow to be in the range of $450 million with the majority of free cash flow going to share repurchases.
At current exchange rates year-end net debt is expected to be approximately $2.9 billion roughly flat with 2011 and we'll continue to have cash being oriented to share repurchases and dividends versus debt paydown.
Finally here are a few key modeling data points.
D&amp;A will run approximately $312 million for the year.
Since we did an exceptional job of getting working capital out of the business in 2011 we'll do our best to keep it out in 2012.
Pension expense will increase by about $5 million while cash contributions to the pension plan worldwide will be up approximately $85 million over 2011 levels.
Maintenance CapEx including recent acquisitions now runs approximately $200 million.
On December 31 2011 basic share count was 160 316 000.
Also let's close the loop on the question of how many accounting days in the quarter is for 2012.
We essentially return to a normal quarterly distribution even with the leap year.
First quarter 2012 will have 92 days versus 93 days in the first quarter of 2011.
The middle quarters will have 91 days as they did in 2011 and the fourth quarter will have 92 days in 2012 versus 90 in 2011.
With that I'll turn it over to Ray to talk more about the Packaging operations.
Thanks Scott.
Fourth quarter operating results in the Metal Beverage Americas and Asia segment were better than a year ago due to higher sales volumes and earnings in China and Brazil.
Fourth quarter North American Beverage Can earnings were slightly lower than last year due to 2% lower sales volumes as a result of fewer accounting days in the quarter as Scott noted earlier.
Full year operating earnings in this segment were up 15% and we expect this trend to continue in 2012.
In 2012 we anticipate that the Beverage Can market will continue to grow in Brazil and Asia and specialty can sales will progress in North America.
As John mentioned new manufacturing facilities constructed in '11 in Vietnam China and Brazil will all be selling cans by the end of the first quarter this year.
Further Beverage Can capital expansion programs are planned for China in 2012 but this year's capital spending in Brazil and North America will be considerably reduced from last year's levels.
Fourth quarter operating results in Europe were slightly down from a year ago despite Beverage Can volumes being up 2% in the quarter and for the full year.
European fourth quarter earnings were negatively impacted by price cost compression in beverage cans.
Full year operating earnings in this segment were up 15% primarily on the strength of Ball Aerocan acquisition which occurred in January of 2011.
Ball Aerocan continues to perform at better-than-expected levels with full year sales volumes in '11 up almost 20% from a year ago.
Full year operating results in the U.S.
Metal Food and Household Products segment were up 3.5% from last year.
Fourth quarter earnings were lower than a year ago due to lower sales volumes and inventory management.
A poor vegetable pack and little 2012 prebuy impacted fourth quarter sales volume.
Full year food can sales volumes were lower by 3% but were down 7% in the fourth quarter.
Lower fourth quarter sales volumes drove higher manufacturing costs due to production curtailments.
Production curtailments and better inventory management resulted in Food and Household business reducing working capital by more than $80 million in 2011.
As we look to 2012 we anticipate another good year in this segment but quarterly earnings distribution will be much different.
In 2011 this segment earned 60% of its full year earnings in the first half and 40% in the second half of the year.
In 2012 the full year earnings distribution will be reversed.
With that I'll turn it back to you John.
Thanks Ray and thanks Scott.
Our Aerospace and Technologies business posted double-digit EBIT margins for the full year.
Continued excellent program performance propelled this segment's results to record levels.
NASA's NPP satellite launched successfully on October 28 and instruments are coming online and returning good data.
Climate monitoring and measurement is an important growth area for us and is the latest example.
Also during the quarter Ball Aerospace was awarded contracts to develop and integrate enhanced operational capabilities for the U.S.
Air Force Distributed Common Ground System providing new capabilities for the intelligent community another growth area for Ball.
Backlog ended the year at $897 million which sets us up well going into 2012.
Though the top line will grow in 2012 EBIT will likely be relatively flat with 2011 as multiyear fixed-price programs ramp up through the year.
So in summary our various businesses had a solid finish to 2011 and we expect to do even better in 2012.
Due largely to the lack of inventory holding gains as Scott mentioned in the first half in our Food business we expect first half earnings to be relatively flat as compared to 2011.
And we see noticeable upside in the back half of the year as our various growth capital projects transition to producing product and profit over the coming months.
As Scott mentioned even including some carryover capital spending from 2011 and increased pension funding Ball continues to generate significant free cash flow.
We remain focused on our balanced capital deployment strategy and will continue to return value to our shareholders via share repurchases as well as dividends.
Our Drive for 10 vision is a mindset around perfection in everything we do and it will play a key role in achieving our goals of more than doubling our EVA dollars generated over the next 10 years as well as generating a compound average growth rate of 10% to 15% earnings per share over time.
So with that Sema we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions to start one on Aerospace and the other on use of cash flow and the structure within Beverage Cans.
Within Aerospace it looked like the backlog dropped a little bit.
I didn't catch if you said what your expectations were for the rest of '12.
But could you comment at all as to whether you think the backlog might be able to hold steady or improve relative programs you know you're likely to get some funding for in the year? The second question when you look at the U.S.
and Europe it's been more often than not in the last several quarters where volumes may have been a little bit softer than you would have expected.
Clearly the scanner data as we look at it for North America has been somewhat soft for a lot of your key customers' key products.
Do you think -- and what are your plans around perhaps further rightsizing the business? And how do you think about the growth expectations and the capacity alignment or the growth you're expecting in your key traditional products in both U.S.
and Europe? George this is John.
Let me talk about Aerospace and I'll have Ray comment on the footprint discussions you were just mentioning.
Aerospace as we know sometimes we talk about it being lumpy.
And if you look back over the past couple of quarters we were about $900 million I think in the second quarter moved up to about $950 million at the end of the third and back down.
We expect -- given that this is an election year we don't expect significant changes relative to the U.S.
government.
So I wouldn't expect significant changes in our backlog over the course of 2012.
With the elections coming up in November I think that's going to be a very important milestone relative to where some of the future funding is going to be.
But we feel pretty darn good about where we are on a variety of different programs in a variety of different segments and markets.
So we have a good diversified portfolio and we continue to grow expect to grow in the Aerospace business going into 2012 '13 and beyond.
Ray do you want to...
Yes.
George to answer your question let me start with Europe for a second.
We had 2% growth volume growth in Europe this year.
We actually had a program on the drawing boards to add a little bit of capacity potentially in 2012 in Europe but we're not going to do that.
So we are absolutely to the walls in Europe and we're not going to add any capacity.
We'll see how 2012 looks.
When I look at North America our customers are not exactly sure.
It's a pretty tough year in volumes in North America and we're getting some mixed signals out of our customers what they think.
But as the market leader in North America we're not going to run the business with excess capacity.
So we have a couple of lines right now although we'll see how things go.
But at the end of the exercise if demand is there the capacity is coming out.
Our next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
First one just if you I might have missed this but you mentioned $200 million is now your run rate in maintenance CapEx.
What did you say for the full year you expect CapEx to be this year? Right now going -- this is Scott.
Going into this year it looks like it's around $400 million.
But as you saw last year we pulled -- there was probably $40 million that moved from 2011 that moved into 2012.
So it's a little bit higher going into what we had thought maybe 6 months ago.
Most of that increase is just due to the movement from '11 to '12.
Got you.
And I know it's really early days but and it will depend on how the market develops especially say in China but as you think about this year if the year unfolds as you expect like with your full year guidance that you suggested a stronger second half do you think you will need to keep that CapEx level around where it is now to keep the capacity coming in where you need it in 2013? In other words do you think CapEx stays here next year? Right now we're seeing a lot of continued growth opportunities in China.
And so more of the cash or more of the CapEx will be oriented towards China in 2012.
And really we evaluate things on an ongoing basis and that's why things could be added or things could be -- come off the list depending on how volumes materialize in different parts of the world.
So for right now we think $400 million is a decent number with most of that going into China to keep up with all that growth.
Got you.
And one more quick one and you might have mentioned this but I know that North America in the fourth quarter your volumes were down 2%.
And of course that's because of the days.
Did you give us the -- or can you give us the numbers for the other geographies in that segment Brazil as well as Asia? Yes sure.
Chip this is Ray.
Our volumes in Europe were up a little bit better than 30% and Brazil was just almost 10%.
And that's...
Asia is 30%? That's with the less number of days.
Yes Asia was 30%.
Yes Asia was 30%.
And those are clean comps.
That's not taking into account increasing your ownership or anything like that from the joint ventures.
Those are clean comps except for the 6 days.
If you add the 6 days it would be higher right? Our next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us an early read on how to think about volumes globally for 2012 perhaps break it down on a quarter basis versus the capacity additions that you have in Asia and Brazil? Ray do you want to express the...
Yes what I would tell you is Europe was up 2% this year and I believe we're thinking that the market goes up a little bit next year.
Our volumes are up slightly.
We've -- it's been a pretty tough pricing environment in Europe for us and so there were some situations that we didn't participate in.
But fundamentally is Europe I think will be slightly up for us but I would say in the 2% range sounds about right.
North America is a little bit of a moving market for us.
Depending on which customers you're talking to you get some slightly different answers.
But I think -- we think it's probably still slightly down.
How much we're not sure.
It depends -- I think it's going to depend on how good the economy is and a bunch of other things.
But I don't think it's going to be as down as much as it was this year.
It was down about 4%.
I think we're thinking of a lower number than that.
We're thinking maybe 2%.
When you look at China China continues to grow.
We're basically sold-out; every can we make we can sell.
And as a matter of fact we're kind of oversold a little bit in China in 2012 it won't be up 30% because we haven't increased capacity 30%.
I think the number is more in the high teens high teen number for us in China even though the market will grow probably in the 20% to 25% range.
And Brazil we're hoping -- Brazil was kind of a tough year this year.
They had a good first quarter a terrible second quarter.
They had some very interesting weather situations in Brazil this year.
So if you talk to our Brazilian colleagues they'll tell you it was a really difficult weather year.
I think we're hoping for somewhere in the 15% 10% to 15% range again in Brazil for 2012.
Yes.
Ghansham I'll just add a little bit more color and even some color around what we talked about first half second half.
When you think about the third quarter for us the European weather perspective was absolutely horrible in 2011 and just even if you get normal weather patterns there ought to be some benefit there.
That combined with the European soccer championships in Europe I think are going to be helpful.
And as Ray mentioned although the context is slightly different in Brazil we face the same thing as well.
So with those 2 important markets for us I think just the external comparables relative to what we saw in 2011 should be better for us in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the headquarter move can you share with us how the tax profile of the company will change in the next 3 years or so? It's really to better align our organization with how our customers and suppliers are structured and improve process putting everybody all in the same spot.
There'll be some benefits longer term.
Not much in the way of '12 but over time we'll expect to get some benefits.
And there are some exit costs too that you have to pay when you do some of this -- this type of restructuring.
We'll fill you in on those as we get further down the road in 2012.
Our next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the price compression in Europe.
Could you just elaborate on that perhaps where did you see that what region? I think it's really just pretty much throughout.
As you know the European Union it's been a difficult situation over there so I think business is difficult for our customers.
It's difficult for us.
So as our customers look to do business they're looking for -- they're looking to cut their costs and we're looking to our suppliers to cut their costs and sort of it will be through the whole supply chain.
I think that there's probably a little bit more capacity in Europe than we'd like to see but all that's coming out with the volume growth.
So it's just been a little bit more difficult than we would've liked to have seen it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Scott can you quantify perhaps the underproduction hit that might've occurred this quarter just across the regions? Most of it was in North America both in the Food business and the Beverage business in terms of running -- taking more downtime and running for cash.
But the shortfall is probably a hand -- a few cents to $0.05 I would bet.
Just to give context to Scott's point North American beverage cans we took out -- year-over-year we produced roughly 300 million less cans and I think upwards of 1 billion less ends in the fourth quarter.
So we really put the brakes on the manufacturing side and that creates excellent cash flow and that's what you saw in the quarter.
And so I think it sets us up very well going into 2012 where our inventories are where we want them to be and we feel pretty good about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just the last one is you do have the savings from Torrance coming in in 2012.
Roughly how much should that help? Isn't that $20 million-ish of saves that you get kind of right off the bat? Yes we get part of those things started to kick in but you're right that was the full year number.
Our next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the food can business I just want to get a sense how much are tinplate prices expected to be up this year? Yes.
The good news about all that is that the tinplate pricing is up a lot more.
We had 2 really high years of tinplate price increases.
In 2012 -- which is great news because of D&amp;A exercise.
We've still got a product our customers have a product to sell.
So the tinplate prices are up significantly a lot less than they have been in prior years.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I mean certainly last year you had sizable increases and then the weather was bad.
I mean the volumes are pretty tough.
I mean margins were still quite good.
Is the normalized growth rate going forward in that business down 1% or 2% or is it still flattish? How should we think about that business? This is John.
I would think of it more a flattish type of business.
It may be down a little bit but remember we had horrible pack in the third quarter if this year and so that skewed the results.
But what you're seeing in terms of the overall economic climate it actually plays well into processed food such as food cans.
And so every given year you have certain things deviations from expectations but we don't see it as a long-term necessarily declining market.
We think it's more a flattish market.
That's the way we run the business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last question you commented on some price weakness in Europe.
Did you see any leakage in any of your other major markets? No not really.
I think China is not -- I mean this is not an easy business.
And so we have good competitors that play hard and so do we.
But I would say Europe is where we're seeing most of the pressure.
A little bit in China but I would say primarily Europe.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you just update us again on what you think kind of a longer-term growth rate is in China? I think you mentioned in 2012 you were looking at something in the mid 20s.
And then what your plans are right now to grow your own base there.
Yes long term we continue to see very strong fundamentals in the China marketplace.
If you want to put a number it really depends.
I think we're not going to sustain the 30-plus percent growth we've seen over the past couple of years over the next 10 years but certainly in the near term.
As Ray said every can made is a can sold right now and we expect very strong growth to continue in 2012 even in '13.
And as the base of that business gets bigger I think the growth rate itself will start to slow down but the absolute number of cans being sold I don't think necessarily will slow down.
We've talked about the can penetration in the beer market really being mid-single digits the 5% 6% range as we sit here today versus 50% in developed markets.
And when you think about China is the world's biggest beer market and only 5% of that is packaged in cans.
And you have all the people moving from rural areas to urban areas.
It sets us up very nicely over the long term.
And that's why as Scott said a lot of our capital dollars are going into that and we're very much focused on getting the right team there getting the right footprint there and doing it very cost-effectively to help us stimulate and continue stimulate the demand.
So all those things are core to our China strategy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think you mentioned last quarter that you might be moving some lines from the U.S.
over to China? Yes we're actively looking at that.
I said we had a couple of lines right now that we've got out of commission.
And as we expand in China -- we generally have some really good equipment in the U.S.
We don't have stuff that's not good.
So our preference would be to relocate the equipment from mature markets to emerging markets.
So we're all about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then it sounded like in Brazil you were expecting a pretty nice bounce back in 2012 in terms of volumes.
It seems like some of the reports we see coming out of Brazil are that the Brazilian economy is growing slower.
So can you just kind of help us reconcile that? Yes.
On one hand the economy is growing slower.
But on the other hand the middle class is increasing and the wages are going into the pockets more quickly.
They had a minimum wage increase that was in the range of 10% 12% which is actually good for our business because as the middle class rises they have more disposable income.
And then they go and purchase products such as those that we produce.
So despite the overall economy being a little bit -- the growth of it being a little bit lower than it's been in the past we still think there's good prospects relative to the consumer need for our product.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last on that what's the penetration rate in Brazil right now do you estimate in beer? On the beer side it's mid- to upper 30%.
It's kind of 36% 37% in and around there.
And it's been increasing and it continues to penetrate further and so it's good for us.
Our next question comes from the line of Alton Stump with Longbow Research.
I think this is the fourth quarter in a row that I've asked this but how are the trends in Eastern Europe versus Western Europe? Is that holding up as well? Or do you expect there's going to be some weakness there this year? Yes.
In 2011 Eastern Europe was a little slower than historically it has been.
If you go back the last 5 years probably the last 3 or last 5 Eastern Europe's been growing quite nicely.
I think with all this euro and the difficult if you will economy that they've had in Europe Eastern Europe has slowed more than potentially Western Europe.
What it's going to look like for '12 I think we're still thinking it could be a little bit on the slower slide.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just one quick follow-up on Brazil.
We've heard based on our checks that it looks like the consumer there has gotten a bit more used to the pricing that was put through at the first of last year.
Have you seen that? And is that at all responsible for the fact that it would look like demand is coming back now during the peak summer period? I think that's part of it certainly.
There was as you rightly pointed out the first quarter last year a big price increase driven in part by taxes from the government et cetera and that did put a short-term damper on it.
And then as we went through the balance of the year as we said the weather was not all that great.
So as we sit here beginning of 2012 as we know it's on the back end of their summer season right now.
But I think for the full year 2012 we expect it to be getting back a little bit back on track relative to what we've seen over the past few years.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Wenning with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> With so much dry powder to repurchase shares now what will your strategy be as it pertains to timing those purchases over the year? Will you look to repurchase them when you consider them to be good absolute value good relative value to other capital allocations or something else? We tend to be a pretty steady buyer of our shares and we also tend to load up earlier in the year to orient more of our share repurchases to earlier in the year.
So I would expect we'll continue that same pattern in 2012 and be pretty steady throughout the year but probably a little more heavy in terms of repurchasing in the first half.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then if my calculations are right based on your historical capital allocation strategy and in light of your new buyback and dividend and CapEx plans it seems like there's not a lot of cash flow left for acquisitions this year.
Does that mean you're finding fewer acquisition opportunities that meet or exceeded your return on capital targets? No I wouldn't say that at all.
In fact if you look at last year it's probably good representation of what we did -- of what our philosophy around that.
We generated $0.5 billion in cash.
But at the same time we bought back or gave dividends of roughly $0.5 billion.
We spent $250 million on growth capital and we acquired a business worth over $300 million.
So our debt went up but our leverage ratios went down because of the operating performance of our company.
And that's the model that's worked very successfully for us.
And so we always want to keep the right amount of to use your words dry powder because you never know when opportunities present themselves.
And so when you're strong financially you have more flexibility and more options and that's what we're going to do as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Just one more.
How are you thinking about the Aerospace and Technology product positioning in light of the new Department of Defense guidance that was issued earlier this month? Yes we actually feel pretty good about where we are because we're very good at low-cost high-value fixed-price projects.
That's what the government really needs right now.
They need better cost better value and that fits right into the sweet spot of why we've been successful and right in the sweet spot of why we're optimistic as we go forward relative to some of those things.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions for you but if I could start at -- on the capital side you're spending again about $200 million beyond what you consider maintenance.
If I've kind of done my math right I'm not sure if I have I think most of the capital is already spent for the capacity edge you have going in the new plant in China the new plant -- capacity in Brazil.
There's probably a pretty good slug yet -- could you help us fill out what that $200 million or so is going towards? Well it's Scott.
As I mentioned we probably had $40 million of that moved from 2011 into 2012 to finish some of these projects.
As John I think mentioned in his comments a lot of the things that were being built have moved into the first quarter of 2012 to complete them.
So there's $40 million there.
And then a pretty good chunk of the rest of the growth capital is oriented towards China.
Yes as Ray said every can made is a can sold right now and we're short-capacity a little bit.
So as we go into 2012 we have some projects that we haven't publicly announced as to where they are but we plan on moving forward with those.
Yes we've got another new plant on the drawing boards for China.
We've got -- we're relocating some equipment in China.
We've got end capacity as well these cans come to the fact that we need some more ends we've got end capacity in China.
And quite frankly we do have some other opportunities in different parts of the world that are looking very encouraging.
So we don't want to get ahead of ourselves here but there's some of the things that if things go our way that could add some nice addition to our company.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's true.
The next one I want to understand is it sounds like you still have some room for some other projects that haven't been announced yet.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as far as looking at -- I think the last gentleman asked about acquisitions.
But as far as looking at new flags on the ground so to speak or new areas that you could be targeting for development can you maybe give us an update there as to what space globally that you think about capacity adds or markets that are attractive? We don't want to go into too much detail given the public nature of this phone call.
But we are actively looking as Ray just even mentioned at some things.
We are very financially disciplined around things like that and that's why some of the timing of these issues are unclear.
We're also very much customer-driven and what we mean by that is typically when we build a new plant as you've heard in Brazil and other places we do it -- we first enter into long-term agreements with the customer so we know what we're dealing with relative to volume and pricing.
And then we take the risk on the manufacturing side which we're quite comfortable doing.
Now getting specifically to your question we've been doing some things on the impact to the distributed Aerosol business whether it's adding new capacity in our European operations which we did in 2011 or some other things we've been looking at.
But also on the Beverage Can side in terms of geographic growth in terms of new products all those things are the focus that we've been trying to rally ourselves around with respect toward Drive for 10 vision.
And I don't want to go into specifics on what those are right now but as Ray said if a couple of things go our way we feel pretty darn good about where we are and we'll make our company a better company and more profitable company.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of Dan Schniewind with AMI Asset Management.
It looks like you have some paper callable in '18 and you've got some other debt.
It's a little bit higher coupon.
Have you guys given any thought kind of tapping kind of the available market now and maybe refining your debt into maybe a benchmark deal or a little bit bigger size to increase your flexibility? We look at our debt portfolio all the time and manage it I think opportunistically.
So we're always looking at the economics of doing something like that but we haven't decided to do that yet.
Okay.
And as far as acquisitions go in the future would you guys look to do those through debt or through cash? Last year that was up almost the exact amount of our acquisitions.
So it really -- as John was talking about we have a variety of levers that we can pull given our strong free cash flow.
And so it kind of depends on the situation what's the optimal way to finance something.
And then again it gets back to being opportunistic with the debt markets too.
So it depends.
And our next question comes from the line of Al Kabili with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a question on Aerocan and given its focus on some of the consumer discretionary in Europe are you still seeing high-single-digit like low-double-digit growth rates with the business? Any impact on the macro conditions there? I would tell you that this year very early after we bought that business as we put some capacity in we probably took the majority of the market growth in Europe.
Now I said we were up almost 20%.
I wouldn't say our competitors were up the same kind of numbers.
We have a very -- a business that's probably low-cost in Europe and so it's very successful.
I would tell you that the volumes in '12 will not be up to the same extent.
We expect a slight volume increase but not to the same magnitude we had in '11.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then also I guess in France on the soda tax potentially any thoughts on any potential impact there? No you know what it's not a meaningful -- we don't believe it to be a meaningful impact to us even if it were to occur.
It really gets down to the retail price of it.
Could there be a modest impact? Maybe but in the totality of our European operations and even the totality of our company it's not material.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just last housekeeping question on corporate expense.
How should we be thinking about it for 2012? It should be relatively flat year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Even with the share price the way it is in the fourth quarter? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
In Europe some of your competitors across a different substrate are very aggressively looking to take price there.
It looks like aluminum prices are down on top of that.
You're saying that you're seeing some general pricing compression for cans.
Are you seeing any customers approach you to look at potentially switching from glass to cans? I'll let you answer that John but I personally haven't seen it but I'll defer to John.
In the short term the filling lines of bottles versus cans are different.
And so in the short term because of pricing activity we don't see any material shifts in substrates that are being used for the packaging of it.
As Ray said earlier though the European market generally is a very tough market right now.
You have unemployment high.
You have not only the economies being soft but there could be threats of double dips and it always puts pressure on the supply chain and that's what we're seeing.
And so without knowing specifics more about other substrates I would just tell you pricing environment for virtually every industry right now in Europe is challenging.
Research Division</strong> A question on China.
You guys are I think the leading player there with about 31% share.
How much further do you think you can grow your market share in China before you may run into some anticompetitive issues? Well as you know China is such a large country number one.
And we have more growth right now just keeping up with market demand let alone market share shifts that we have not really focused too much on increasing our market share although we're going to -- we certainly want to at a minimum hold our market share.
More longer term I think there's probably some regional opportunities but not wholesale.
But remember there's -- we're far and away the largest.
We have another competitor that's relatively large there and then it gets pretty fragmented at that and it really starts to focus on the regional -- regions of China as opposed to the country as a whole.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just last question for Scott.
Looking at the free cash flow numbers for '11 it looks like there were about $200 million of other items that positively boosted the free cash flow number to north of $500 million.
What I'm really trying to get at is what's the core change in the cash flow of the business in '12 relative to '11 if you were to adjust '11 for that $200 million of other items of positive cash flow? Well the big item would be the pension funding versus expense.
So that's going to go up $85 million year-over-year.
So we had very little pension funding that was required in '11 and more -- a larger increase in 2012.
The working capital would also be a big swing.
Where it was a pretty big source of cash flow in '11.
We're going to try to keep most of that out in '12 but we'll see.
And those would be the 2 big components.
Research Division</strong> Is there anything on taxes? Nothing really material in taxes.
And our next question is a follow-up question from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A few things to clean up.
One of the paperboard companies was reporting recently and they're talking about increased installations both of their systems and their board for multipacks especially around cans.
I guess I'm preaching a little bit to the converted here but are you seeing that in any particular regions? And are you seeing it more in soft drink or beer? That would be question #1.
Question #2 back to North America you're forecasting to some degree a lesser rate of decline in North America versus '11's 4% or so decline.
That's not great but it is a little bit better.
Does that suggest at all that your customers in North America are rethinking their price versus volume strategy or not? One of the -- Ray why don't you talk about North America and I'll come back for the global? Yes.
It's funny.
It's a little more customer-specific so and I don't want to go into that George.
So certain customers I don't think are seeing it exactly the same way.
So we have some customers that I think are -- their volumes didn't decline quite as much.
And they're not thinking about making some tremendous changes.
We have other customers that probably their volumes did decline more and are rethinking some of their strategies.
So it's kind of a mixed bag to be quite honest with you.
I think on the beer side I think the guys probably are more wedded to their pricing strategies I think.
In the soft drink side it's a little different I think.
So that's what I would tell you about North America.
Yes with respect to the multi-packing George as you know it's quite prevalent in the United States.
We've seen a lot of activity going on there relative to whether it's microbrewers going in the multipacks if they haven't.
Or you're seeing many of our customers change the pack size change the pack configuration.
But outside the United States multi-packing is really not -- has not been a big phenomenon and that's what provides a good opportunity.
Even in Europe multi-packing is not the norm.
It's more of an exception.
And so we are seeing some activity there.
China I think is another big opportunity as the urbanization occurs there and the change to the retail trade.
When you have many more of the big box stores going into China which is exploding there they really like to push multipacks because of convenience.
And so I think you're going to see that as time goes forward as well.
And so obviously as you said we're talking of converting here but it's helpful to our business and some of these other areas ramp up the penetration of the can.
Research Division</strong> So it's opportunity but you're not really seeing it yet in the volumes.
That'd be the summary right?.
What I'm saying is we are seeing it but I wouldn't say that it's wholesale right now.
There's a lot of experimentation going on.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
Two last questions and I'll turn it over.
You mentioned at the beginning that you renewed your contract on the Rocky Mountain Beverage Can plant agreement.
Did you also say if you did I missed and I apologize that you also renewed your entire agreement with MillerCoors? And then secondly in food cans what's the latest on BPA both in terms of coatings and customers' expectations? Okay.
Your first question yes we did say that we extended our agreement with MillerCoors.
Getting back on the BPA as most people know that we expect by the end of March for the FDA to make an announcement around it.
We don't expect there to be any surprises of the science side of it.
We've talked about that before.
But unfortunately this is in the political arena to some degree and that's not of our control.
Irrespective of that George and this is really getting to the crux of your question we feel really good about the progress we've made and can now offer alternatives to meet any regulatory pronouncement for the vast majority of our products.
So we are anticipating the FDA to say something.
We don't expect it to be wholesale change.
But as I said you never know.
And we'll adjust working with our suppliers on one hand and customers on the other hand.
To the extent that we need to do something we certainly have to consider that.
Mr.
Hayes there are no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Well I want to thank everyone for participating and we here all look forward to a good 2012.
And we'll speak to you 3 months from now.
Everyone have a good first quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Ball Corporation First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday April 26 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Hayes President and Chief Executive Officer.
You may begin sir.
Thank you France and good morning everyone.
This is Ball Corporation's conference call regarding the company's first quarter 2012 results.
The information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Some factors that could cause the results or outcomes to differ are in the company's latest 10-K and in other company SEC filings as well as company news releases.
If you don't already have our earnings release it's available on our website at ball.com.
Information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
Now joining me on the call today are Scott Morrison Senior Vice President and CFO; and Ray Seabrook Executive Vice President and COO Global Packaging.
In a moment Scott will discuss our financial results for the quarter.
Ray will follow with details about our Packaging operating performance and I will close with comments on Aerospace and the outlook for the remainder of 2012.
Ball reported improved comparable first quarter 2012 results during the seasonally slow first quarter.
Recall that we have mentioned in January that our first half of the year will be relatively flat as compared to 2011 and we performed slightly better than we expected.
Maximizing the value and performance of our existing businesses is one of the strategic levers of our Drive for 10 strategy and our people and our business are executing well in this environment.
The other levers of Drive for 10 include broadening our geographic reach expanding in the new products and capabilities aligning ourselves with the right customers and markets and leveraging our technology expertise to create a competitive advantage.
We're making good progress in all of these.
And several highlights include: completing the construction of our previously announced capital projects in Qingdao China; Alagoinhas Brazil; and Ho Chi Minh City Vietnam further broadening our geographic reach; increasing the production and sales of our specialty can product portfolio in North America which grew approximately 20% due to expanding volume in the 7.5 ounce 16 ounce in Alumi-Tek product categories; leveraging our technological expertise by announcing our ReAl can technology and innovation and sustainability breakthrough in our extruded aluminum impacting business.
ReAl enables significant light weighting of aluminum aerosol container while utilizing aluminum from our beverage can plants in the manufacturing process to add up to 25% recycled content into aluminum aerosol containers.
And finally we've been working hard on our third sustainability report which will be out at the end of May.
Sustainability is an important part of our Drive for 10 and plays a key role in both maximizing the value our existing businesses and leveraging our technology.
Our new report will provide detail on our progress since 2010 as well as our future goals and objectives.
You'll hear more examples of our Drive for 10 progress from Scott and Ray.
There's a lot going on here at Ball.
And while it's still early in the year 2012 is off to a nice start.
I'll turn it over to Scott and we'll talk about the quarter.
And then the Ray will provide color on our operations.
And I'll return with comments on our Aerospace business and the outlook for 2012.
Scott? Thanks John.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2012 were $0.63 versus last year's $0.58 an increase of nearly 9%.
For the first quarter the following factors contributed to these results: higher European and specialty can volumes; solid program performance in our Aerospace business; a lower share count; and a lower tax rate.
For a complete summary of the first quarter results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis please refer to the notes section of today's earnings release.
The key financial metrics for 2012 that I gave you in January are all the same other than the tax rate.
Taking into account certain tax benefits achieved in the first quarter and those expected later in the year the full year effective tax rate will now be approximately 30% for the full year 2012.
Other than that one change everything else looks the same.
Interest expense will remain at approximately $175 million.
Full year 2012 CapEx is still expected to be in the range of $400 million.
And as always the timing of future projects will impact actual spending so we'll keep you updated as the year progresses.
And we still expect 2012 free cash flow in the range of $450 million.
The company's annual funding of our U.S.
pension plan was largely completed in the first quarter.
And at current exchange rates year-end net debt is expected to be approximately $3 billion roughly flat versus 2011 as we will continue to return our free cash flow to shareholders via share repurchases and dividends versus debt paydown.
With that I'll turn it over to Ray to talk more about the Packaging operations.
Thanks Scott.
Comparable operating earnings through the first quarter in the Metal Beverage Americas and Asia segment were below last year's level.
For the most part the first quarter earnings shortfall was in Brazil.
First quarter sales volumes in Brazil were lower by mid-single digits compared to a year ago primarily due to a change in the customer filling location and the temporary loss of another location due to higher freight cost until our new capacity came on stream.
The new can plant Alagoinhas has successfully started making cans in late March and is now supplying our customers in the Northeast which will catch up our volumes in the second quarter.
With this new capacity coming on stream we anticipate full year Brazil volumes to be up 15% or more from 2011 levels.
In Asia our new joint venture can plant in Vietnam also started up in March and we are now selling cans to our customers in that marketplace.
The newly constructed plant in Qingdao China is still in checkout phase and is scheduled to making and selling cans to our customers next month.
All in all it's been a very busy first quarter finishing up these major capital projects.
Sales volumes in China were also off to a slow start due to a very cold winter in the north and an earlier-than-normal beginning to the Chinese New Year.
First quarter Asia results were a little behind last year's level but we still expect low double-digit volume growth in Asia for the full year.
First quarter sales volumes in North America were up slightly compared to a year ago.
And we started to see a more favorable sales mix as we got to the end of the quarter that has carried into the second quarter.
Higher archive and freight cost occurred in the first quarter as we move to improve plant utilization rates.
Comparable European operating results were slightly better than a year ago despite currency headwinds and continued price cost compression in beverage cans.
Beverage can volumes were up mid-single digits and aerosol volumes were up low-double digits in the quarter.
Ball Aerocan continues to make year-over-year earnings improvements.
First quarter earnings in the U.S.
Metal Food and Household Products segment were ahead of plan but below last year's first quarter due to inventory gains made in 2011 that were not realized this year.
Food can volumes in the quarter were slightly below last year's level but our total year forecast is for improved volumes due to relatively easy comps from a year ago.
As we said in our January conference call the quarterly earning pattern in this business in 2012 will return to a more typical seasonal pattern which was reversed in 2011.
A more typical quarterly earnings pattern would be for 40% of segment earnings we made in the first half of the year and 60% in the second half.
As we look to a full year earnings for this business we continue to see another strong year.
With that I'll turn it back to you John.
Great.
Thanks Ray.
Aerospace and Technologies posted near double-digit EBIT margin for the quarter.
Backlog ended the quarter at $855 million which is holding in nicely as we await for it on key bids outstanding.
Previously awarded fixed-price programs continue to ramp up and we anticipate another good year in Aerospace despite the uncertainty around funding in this election year.
Now during the quarter Ball's Ozone Mapping and Profiler Suite instrument onboard the NPP satellite began collecting data that will provide information about the global distribution of ozone.
And in early April NASA extended the Kepler mission to 2016.
Kepler was designed to search for planets around other stars and has identified so far more than 60 confirmed planets and hundreds of other planet candidates.
Ball Aerospace is the mission prime contractor for Kepler.
Finally we also announced the addition of Rob Strain as Chief Operating Officer of Ball Aerospace.
Rob comes to us from NASA where he was the Director of the Goddard Space Flight Center and has a wealth of experience in the civil defense and commercial aerospace markets.
And we're delighted to have him on board as he works closely with Dave Taylor and the rest of our Aerospace team in the pursuit of Our Drive for 10 strategies.
So in summary and as we said in January we expect our first half of the year to be largely flat as compared to 2011.
And with an improved first quarter behind us we are slightly ahead of where we thought we would be at this point.
We continue to see noticeable upside in the back half of the year as new emerging market plants complete their start-up curves and begin selling product and our North America and European beverage businesses move into the busy summer selling season.
As Scott mentioned Ball will continue to generate significant free cash flow and we remain focused on a disciplined capital deployment strategy to return value to our shareholders and grow our company.
Drive for 10 is a mindset around perfection in everything we do and it will play a key role in achieving our goals and more than doubling the EVA dollars generated over the next 10 years as well as generating a compound average growth rate of 10% to 15% earnings per share over that time and more specifically in 2012.
So with that France we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question from the line of George Staphos Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Ray I was hoping you could go through the volume percentages or guidance for the first quarter specifically with the Americas segment for beverage.
I couldn't keep up with some of your discussion.
Yes okay.
Sure George.
Brazil we were down about 6% and the market was up maybe 4.5% to 5%.
And I think I explained in our comments that that's just mainly timing for us.
In North America we were up at pretty much like the market through the quarter.
And in China we were pretty flat slightly down but pretty flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean you mentioned the reasons there.
I mean given the growth economically still being higher-single digits were you disappointed even with the weather even with the late recovery out of the New Year with that volume growth in China? Well I think it surprised us quite frankly.
And it wasn't just us.
I think it was -- if you were to talk to our competitors in China they would probably give you the same story.
I think the early Chinese New Year probably meant that our sales in the fourth quarter last year were a little stronger than they otherwise might have been because people were taking cans in the fourth quarter.
It was terribly cold in the North this year.
That's one of the reasons at Qingdao.
It should be up and running right by now and it's not.
That's one of the reasons.
It was hard for us to get some of that concrete forward because it was so cold.
But all in all I talked to our guys just -- I've been talking to our guys constantly.
The volume is starting to pick up.
As we sit now the weather's gotten a lot of better.
So we are still predicting low double-digit volume increases in China and we think most of that was just timing.
George also this is John let's not forget that in 2011 we were sold out so we did not have any additional capacity.
And so we're anticipating the ramp up of Qingdao to provide us that flexed capacities going forward.
So now that we have it our salespeople have had discussions with our customers which is not unimportant as we think about going to the second half of 2012.
Actually that's a good point John.
We actually in our plan this year we felt we'd actually have to buy cans for China.
And as we know because of the little slower start I'm not sure we're going to have to do that.
And of course if we buy cans we don't make any money.
So I think really we're looking at that as just primarily timing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And related question not trying to overdo it.
Given that there was some one-off factor that created these slower start both in Brazil and China would this be a reason that perhaps you take a more wait-and-see approach on the next slug of capacity to see how the market digested or not really? You're still more or less all guns blazing relative to [indiscernible] we have in place? Well remember George we just -- we really don't -- we don't build the plant and hope somebody shows up.
That's not how we do things.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
So we really don't do anything unless we have customer contracts in hand.
So if we have customer contract in hand that has the right parts to them that says that we're not taking all the risk then in fact we put capacity in.
So that's the way we operate and we'll continue to do that.
So we're really not building anything we don't have contracts for.
So that's how we're going to continue in the future.
We have slowed down a little bit because the market slowed down a little bit but we -- that's always the way we do things.
Research Division</strong> Fair point.
Last question then I'll turn it over.
One have you seen any kind of pickup in promotional activity or interest in North America on the beverage side? Two what are your plans with the lines that have been idle in Columbus? And three are you seeing any more competition in the aluminum bottle market vis-à-vis you're Alumi-Tek technology? Let's see.
The first question is we are seeing some promotional activity.
We have some lines idled in Columbus.
We just had some discussions yesterday.
We may have to turn some of those lines on.
We are to the walls in every single one of our plants in the U.S.
absolutely to the walls except we bottled [ph] those 2 lines in Columbus.
And I'm not sure we're not going to have to lease term one of them on before we get to the end of the year especially if the market picks up a little bit for sure.
We're not seeing any competition for Alumi-Tek.
As a matter of fact in our R&amp;D shop we continue to look at various things.
And I'm pretty excited with some of the R&amp;D things that we're developing that relate to that not exactly Alumi-Tek but Alumi-Tek type technology.
So we're really doing some really good things over there that I think is going to pay dividends for us in the future.
Our next question from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Correct me if I'm wrong but I think you might have mentioned on the last call that you could possibly see Metal Beverage America Asia operating profit up 15% year-over-year.
But 1Q operating profit it looks like it was down.
Do you still think you can get that kind of result? And what has to happen from here on out to potentially get there? Well yes.
We definitely foresee that segment operating profit up.
I just don't have the number in front of me but it's 15% but we see it significantly up.
The first quarter was pretty much as we thought.
Remember Brazil last year -- if we think about Brazil's comps last year Brazil our volume increased 18% in the first quarter.
It was down 18% in the second and so we're flat halfway during the year.
And I think we were up double digits by the time we got to the end of the year.
This year our volume was up.
I mean it was off 6%.
The market was up but we expect with our new capacity coming in Brazil that volumes will be up at least 15% year-over-year.
So we're expecting volumes up in China.
We're expecting them up in Brazil.
And so far the U.S.
has started up fairly strong.
So we expect that segment profit up certainly more than 10% somewhere between 10% and 15% I would tell you.
To reiterate what Ray said.
We -- nothing really -- the first quarter came in as we thought and we see nothing as we go forward that's a deviation from what we thought in January.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you get a little bit of a mix shift there in that it looks like Brazil volumes or top line growth you might have taken that up a little bit and China is maybe a little bit lower? Do you get a positive mix shift with better volumes out of Brazil and maybe a little bit weaker in China? Nothing appreciable.
I think as we look at the various areas within that segment: Asia Brazil and North America; you always get little bit shifts here and there but I wouldn't -- from a profitability point of view it's nothing appreciable.
Our next question from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Ray on the promotional activity commentary can you differentiate between beer and CSD in North America? Is it sort of equally spread between the 2 or is one stronger than the other? I think what we're seeing a little stronger.
We're hearing it a little stronger in the CSD side.
Yes.
And we said that on the beer side the overall beer market in the first quarter was actually up slightly.
And that's after a couple of straight being down in the low-single digits.
And what -- our beer customers are making a lot of renewed noise and push around the marketing innovation which not only is helpful to growing the category but it's helpful for us because it's key to our strategy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching to Brazil.
Obviously the market slowed.
I don't know how it shaped up inter-quarter but did you have any sort of down time to realign inventories with what you started to see in terms of deterioration there? Yes absolutely.
We took downtime in our plants.
We didn't build inventory.
Research Division</strong> Can you sort of quantify that for us? As I say a 6% reduction in the quarter is like a 50 million cans.
And we took downtime to cover that off.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then just real quick on the extruded aluminum pack in Europe what's behind the double-digit increase there? Continued customer demand.
Despite some of the economic ills in Europe we're continuing to see strong demand.
And we're I think we're aligned with the right customers.
Our next question from the line of Philip Ng from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just piggybacking off of Ghansham's question.
Margins actually held up pretty well in Europe.
Certainly volumes were strong.
But price was supposed to be down a little bit.
Is the margin strength driven by the Aerosol side? We did get -- we have had price cost compression in Europe there's no question about it mainly in beverage only.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like the lift came from the aluminum Aerosol business right? Yes.
That and also the volume increase.
And our guys have been doing a good job over in Europe controlling the cost relative to the price compression.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you're looking at acquisitions going forward are you looking to stay in your core products that you're in already? Are there opportunities for you to expand in something different like a few years ago you guys branched out into aluminum slugs in the Aerosol business? That acquisition was a very much adjacent to what we were doing.
And when you think about selling aluminum containers and the slugs were a key component of it I would not expect us to go far afield certainly.
We have more opportunities in what we do today than we've seen in a while.
And so we're going to stick to our knitting generally speaking.
Technology is an important part of what we do.
I think the slug business is a good example of that in our announcement of the first quarter about taking our scrap from our beverage can plants and putting it into the slugs was exactly what we had anticipated as we acquired that.
And so things like that I don't think are too far afield.
But as we sit here today as I mentioned we have a lot of opportunities within what we know very well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just a last question for Scott.
It's early in the year.
Your free cash flow was a little bit light and I think you guys guide towards working cap being flat potentially.
What's driving the uptick in that working cap? When we think of working cap -- actually we made significant improvements in the working cap last year.
We've got a number of programs in place this year that we think we can actually improve upon where we ended up last year.
It's early in the year but we think we can have a bit of a source of funds from working capital this year as well.
Our next question from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just on the guidance for Americas Asia beverage of up 10% to 15% this year I just want to kind of peel back a little bit and understand how much of that you think would come from North America versus emerging markets? I'm trying to basically take into account the North America.
You have the switch over to specialty.
You have the Torrance closure that still have some savings.
So is it kind of 50-50 emerging markets versus developed? Or how do you think about that? I don't have that in front of me but I think that's reasonable.
But I don't think we'd get much.
Torrance closed in the fourth quarter of '10 I think.
Was it fourth quarter? Yes.
So we've taken -- a lot of that has come.
We're already in 2012.
So a lot of that's come.
Some of that Torrance equipment is sitting in Vietnam and other places so we got some nice benefits from doing that but I would say it's in the neighborhood of 50-50.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in the current quarter the 10 million decline was that -- was basically all of that in Brazil [indiscernible].
Not all of it is Brazil.
But by far the majority of it is Brazil.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the guidance commentary on the first half being flattish does that still hold at this stage? Or would you say you're thinking because you've implied 2Q will be down but it doesn't seem like that should be the case.
Yes no.
I think what I said in my prepared remarks is given that we're slightly above in the first quarter we expect it -- another way of saying it we'd expect the second quarter to be roughly flat.
Because as we said here in January January we said the first half would be flat.
We are a little bit above after the first quarter so you would expect that to carry through.
But I wouldn't read into it too much for the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And just one other question how big is your Specialty Can business.
You said it's 20% in North America.
How big is it overall and in North America? Well in North America it's about 17% or so.
And that -- in Brazil it's probably a little bit higher.
In Europe it's probably about the same.
And in Asia it's a little bit lower.
But I think the trends in the emerging markets we're seeing a shift from 12 ounce or 33 centiliter to more specialty cans accelerating as time goes on.
Our next question from the line of Alton Stump with Longbow Research.
This is actually Phil Terpolilli calling in for Alton.
I just wanted to focus a bit on your outlook in Europe.
You mentioned in the press release the pickup in promotional activity there ahead of the summer special events.
Any sense of how things are playing out maybe versus your initial expectations? And two is it safe to say you expect a sequential volume acceleration versus what we saw this quarter? Yes.
We did get off to a strong start in Europe.
Let's take a step back and think about all the drivers as we go forward.
We've got the European Cup Championships that are in the 2nd half of June.
We've got the Olympics that are in London in July.
Recall that last summer from a weather perspective in Europe was dismal.
And in fact the third quarter last year we had said that we had taken some downtime in August which was unprecedented for us in our European beverage can plants.
And so we don't expect that to happen.
The can is continuing to take share.
On the CSD market across Europe generally speaking it's been relatively flat from a total CSD perspective.
But the cans are up mid-single digits which means they're taking share.
And the beer was off a little bit in totality.
But cans we're up upper single digits in terms of filling.
So I think another example a lot of it is taking share.
So as we look to the going through the balance of the summer and into the second half of the year we feel pretty good about the volume trends in Europe.
Our next question is from the line of Alex Ovshey from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned some pricing compression that you're seeing in Europe can you just talk about when you expect to cycle through that pricing compression? And then as you look to the other parts of the world that you participate in is there any issues with pricing there to note? Well when we look to Europe as John talked about the volume is increasing so the capacity demand situation is tightening up.
So -- and we had a situation where we had some people passing capacity and we had a little bit of capacity.
We are fundamentally sold out pretty much by the end of this year in Europe.
And as that capacity tightens up we would expect pricing to tighten up in Europe.
I think in China there's a little bit more open capacity than we'd like to see.
The market is growing double-digit growth.
We don't see that slowing down in the near future and people have added capacity.
So we're probably going to cycle what we got with a little bit more capacity China.
We'd like to see some -- pricing is more difficult there.
As that market grows that'll tighten up for us.
And in North America we're pretty stable.
It's pretty stable.
We get -- so I think pricing is -- North America is pretty as I said pretty stable.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And on the volume trend in North America it seems like it's coming in positive for you.
And not just for you a number of other companies exposed to beverages end market.
And it's better than we are expecting.
And part of that is we tend to look at some of the end market data as reported by AC Nielsen in the retail channel which continues to be pretty soft.
Can you talk about whether some of that volumes that you guys are seeing in North America if that's driven maybe by some inventory bill that's happening? Or just the benefit of nice weather which is driving consumption in other channels outside of the retail channel? Do you have any thoughts on that? I really think there's 3 issues ongoing.
Number one the economy in America while it's not great it's certainly getting better from a year-over-year perspective.
So that's point one.
Number two the weather has been quite favorable in this winter and spring season across the United States.
And I think that is helping.
And then number three as we've talked about over the past couple of years there's been a fair amount of price-taking by our customers at the expense of volume.
And as Ray had mentioned earlier we're seeing and hearing about more increased summer promotional activities.
So that bodes well for the can as we move into the summer.
Our next question from the line of James Armstrong with Vertical Research Partners.
The first one is on the Aerospace division.
Could you update us on your aerospace expansion project? And have you started looking at doing any geosynchronous or telecommunication projects? Well we are building out and adding capacity if you will to our satellite manufacturing facility and that's well underway.
In fact it should be commissioned probably at the end of this year.
It does provide us capability to do some things in addition to what we've historically done on some of the larger buses which you're referring to in terms of geosynchronous activity.
That's an area that we can certainly explore.
But I think as we sit here today we don't really have anything to comment on other than it does provide us the capability to expand into additional markets that from a manufacturing perspective we are unable to pursue prior to doing this.
Okay that helps.
Switching gears a bit.
Your tax rate was especially low.
Can you give us some context around it? And is there any chance we could expect something similar going forward? Sure this is Scott.
But we have reserves for a variety of uncertain tax positions.
And when we get to the point in an audit process that are positioned with regard to those issues as determined we can then release those reserves.
So that's what occurred in the first quarter.
We see a little bit more of that more happening potentially late this year that's why I said our tax rate for the full year will probably be around 30%.
Okay that's helpful.
And lastly as you look out beyond -- looking out beyond 2013 or so what are the top 2 or 3 markets that you think that you could expand into organically? And by that point do you think the Brazilian market will be saturated North and South? Well we're not going to go into great detail here obviously given the competitive nature of it.
But as Ray and we talked about in our prior calls we think Asia generally speaking China in particularly but Southeast Asia as well bodes well just because the overall demographics.
The retail chain in China is one of the largest in the world right now.
It's supposed to double in the top 50 cities of China over the next 10 years.
And there's just a lot of built-in improvement from a can share perspective.
We've talked about the can as a share of the package mix.
And beer for example is only about 6% yet it's the biggest and fastest-growing beer market in the world.
So we continue to see that going well.
We've also talked about in Brazil that we have been experiencing strong growth driven by the improved economy and driven by a rise in middle class driven by the improved overall beverage volumes and can share penetration gains.
We're in the upper 30s right now in Brazil.
We're also benefiting and we will for the next couple of years because of the infrastructure builds related to the World Cup and the Olympics.
But at some point in time that will moderate out.
And so we have been building some capacity in there because we see in the next couple of years some good trends.
But that is going to start the level out over time and that hasn't been lost on us.
And then we continue to look at other areas that's probably premature to talk about.
But the beverage can over the past few years has really taken hold in some of these more emerging markets.
And it's actually solidifying in some of the stable markets.
I mentioned that the can share penetration growth in Europe which Ray talked about the solid performance at least in the first quarter which is not a trend necessarily but we feel pretty constructive about what's happening in North America.
So we have solid underpinnings in the mature markets and we think we have some growth opportunities in some of the places that we already play in.
Our next question from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple follow-up questions if I may.
Is there a way to somehow quantify maybe the price compression you're seeing in Europe? Maybe a different way of coming at this is I think earlier in the year you guys have talked about thinking that volumes might be up only flat to up a couple of points.
But you've been in better shape mid-single digits here this quarter.
And it sounds like now you're more in line that things might be mid-single digits.
And then we're seeing that other business the Aerosol business over there are doing well too.
So how should we think about total profitability there for the year? And is there a way to somehow help us quantify how much price compression we've been seeing? Well I think -- Chris this is Ray.
I think what I would do is look at the margins in our European business.
You'll probably find rough 100 150 basis points so that volume's up the margin's off and that's the way to quantify it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I'll think about contribution into pieces [ph].
The second question I had was with respect to also staying over there in Europe.
If by the end of the year you're in a position again where you're sold out can you maybe talk a little bit about how you would feel regarding adding additional capacity during '13 or specific markets where you think might be reasonable targets that would best support further capacity? A couple of thoughts on the way we think about this.
Recall back in January Ray I believe had said that we had actually thought about sometime in 2012 we might need to add capacity and we put that on hold.
And it is going to remain on hold because we're trying to get the profitability where we think it ought to be.
We would much rather run full out because this is a fixed cost business and you need to do that.
So that's one observation.
The other observation as Ray also talked about was we don't add capacity unless we have it effectively sold out with customer contracts.
And so as our customers are continuing to look at growth with large in Europe because the can share penetration and other things we're in very close contact with them.
But we just don't want to add capacity because the market in the short term has been a little bit higher than our expectations.
Now that's not to say we won't but we'd much rather really focus on what we can control right now which is the cost side of our business and the volume production side of our business and then let the demand side dictate what we will do.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question I had was regarding the extruded aluminum technology.
Is that something that was developed out of the JV in Europe? Or is that something that you guys did on your own on the slug side I'm guessing? And then how does -- or is that transferable here to North America? I think I read in the press release that it was intended to start over there in Europe? And is that something that as you save the metal that you can effectively retain in your own profits? Or how does that work? Well we first developed it on our own here in North America.
And using the technology of beverage can as I mentioned beverage cans as well as the slug.
Because we produce the aluminum bottles and aerosol cans over in Europe we're going to start manufacturing them then.
This is as much about an environmental sustainability play as it is an economic sustainability play.
And we think that we've created a real breakthrough.
And so we expect to get to be able to keep a fair amount of those savings while at the same time providing an incentive to our customers to really push this product.
Our next question from the line of Albert Kabili with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess the question on 2013 in North America the contract renegotiations and if you had any sort of early thoughts along those lines how you...
Well this is Ray.
We only have one contract to do and we are in the process of doing it.
So everything else is under contract.
Research Division</strong> Right but I guess it's a large contract and so...
Well it's not that large.
I mean there's 2 parts to it.
So it's not as large as you might think.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right that's helpful.
Second question along the lines of aerosol if you could -- I may have missed it what your aerosol can volumes did.
I was a bit surprised looking at the industry data how weak Aerosol was and what you're hearing along that front.
Well tinplate aerosol was down you're right about that.
Our aerosol volumes in North America were down a little soft in the first quarter.
However they seem to pop back up at least at the start of the second quarter.
Food was just down a little bit.
When I look at the aerosol volumes in Europe we talked about it it was up low-single digits.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then North America should we be concerned or are you seeing any shift to aluminum away from tinplate? I mean that would obviously benefit you in Europe.
But as we look about North America on aerosol is there anything headwind on a package mix shift to aluminum away from aerosol that noticeably have impacted you thus far? Nothing appreciably.
You have to -- tinplate has its home in terms of insecticides and household products.
And the aluminum has captured a fair amount of the growth because that's in the beauty and personal care.
So everything from suntan lotions that are now going into aluminum and have extruded when they used to be in plastic tubes and other things like that.
But there really hasn't been a shift because each -- both tinplate on one hand and aluminum on the other hand have natural submarkets relative to the overall Aerosol category.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then final question on the Aerospace.
The backlog was down a little sequentially.
How do you see that playing out the rest of the year here? What are some of the next big projects if there's any on the radar screen that we should be looking out for? We have a number of bids outstanding right now.
And probably candidly more bids than I recall in the recent past.
And that's the good news.
One of the problem is we have a government right now that's in an election year.
And so the ability to make decisions is quite -- is a bit uncertain.
We have a lot of the economic issues about sequestration happening at the end of the year and tax cuts expiration as well as debt ceiling.
And so I think their focus is more on that what to do with it.
I will say this in terms of some of the things we've been bidding on it's -- we expect those things to continue as we go forward because as all of you know that what we do in the Aerospace side those things are of national importance to what we do as a nation.
And so we feel pretty good.
We always talk about it being a little bit lumpy and backlog is no different.
We're down $40 million or $50 million from the year end.
It's too early to predict exactly what it will be like in each quarter as we go forward but as I said we have an awful lot of bids outstanding.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And along those lines John is there any way to maybe help us quantify like in aggregate how big that bidding activity is in total size like if it were 100% which I know it never is? But is there a way for us to gauge just how big that is? You mentioned that it's healthy.
Yes.
Let's put it this way.
When we talk about backlog it's funded backlog.
And so that is what has already been funded by the U.S.
government.
We have a lot of unfunded backlog.
And rough order of magnitude it's usually twice the funded backlog is that is out there.
And then on top of that we have bids outstanding and it's usually much greater than the funded backlog.
So at any given time we have well in excess of what our funded backlog is well in excess in terms of things that we've won but have not booked or things -- bids that we have outstanding.
And the trajectory of those types of things that I'm talking about as I said has gotten a little better for us not worse.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question from the line of Debbie Jones from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering.
Can you guys talk about your trends in Germany for the quarter? Yes.
Well the overall German market was up about 17%.
We were up a little bit more than that just because we're quite large in that area.
The good news is the beer is actually stronger.
The beer was up 24% 25% beer cans.
And that is really a sweet spot we think over the long term for the German market.
So obviously it was -- first quarter is a seasonally slow quarter but the trends that we have seen in Germany really haven't changed.
We're still hoping and waiting that some of the 2 largest chains retail chains in Germany start to lift.
They haven't done that yet but there's a variety of discussions going on with them.
But where the can has been listed the penetration rates have been equal to or a little bit better than what we had been hoping.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And also in Europe I was just wondering are you guys seeing a bifurcation in pricing trends versus specialty versus standard cans.
I assume that standard can is under a little bit more pricing pressure but I just wanted to get your thoughts on that.
Well actually what we have seen is actually a little bit more of our customers' gravitation towards more of the standard sizes.
As we talked about earlier the European economy is tough and so there's a lot of -- not only for us but a lot of just industry generally are focused on value and are focused on cost and those things.
And so we see the slight trending down from some of the higher-end specialty packages to more commodity packages.
But to answer the question about pressured trends from a pricing relative to commodity versus standard containers we don't think see any appreciable difference there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I was also curious in China.
There's a lot of capacity coming on.
And I'm wondering is there a risk in the near term that some of this new capacity does what happens [ph] you guys done in Brazil where you lost a bit of volume given your location or approximately to your customers.
And the other thing that I've been finding surprising is just some announcements about the self manufacturing.
For some of these players I would think that that would be something that we wouldn't be moving towards at this point in the market.
Yes this is Ray.
As I said we're sold out in 2012 in China.
So I've said that on the one hand.
The other hand I can tell you that we've lost business.
We've had some business with some customers and we have lost on price.
And so we're trying to do -- we're trying to weight the equation such that we have to be competitive obviously.
We're trying to weight the equation such that we pick the business and we look at the long-term potential of this business.
But we certainly are getting competition in China and we have lost business.
However we still remain sold out.
So obviously we continue to grow.
The market continues to grow.
So that's an equation that we spend a lot of time thinking about and working on.
And we try to get it right.
I might add also that you talked about self manufacturers.
There's some independent can manufacturers is the way I'd describe it.
And one of the things that we've been spending an awful lot of time is bringing the experience and expertise that we have in the North American markets that we have in the European markets from a cost from a technology from an efficiency from a know-how perspective and making sure that we are leveraging it as much as possible in Asia and China in particular.
Because at the end of the day in our business low cost always wins.
And we do think we have competitive advantages.
We believe our cost structure is better than most if not all the competition over in Asia.
And we're putting a renewed focus to make sure we're as efficient as possible there because that's the way you win in a game like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last question in China.
What is your mix between beer CSD? And do you see that mix changing going forward? The Chinese palate is different.
So obviously they like the teas.
Our mix is much more heavily weighted towards beer and tea than it is to soft drink.
It's probably reversed to the U.S.
Our next question is from the line of Adam Josephson from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Of the long-term growth you're expecting in China and Brazil how much do you expect to come from beer market growth and how much do you expect to come from a shift from bottles to cans? Well I think it's a combination of both.
And it varies by market.
As I said in Brazil from a can penetration perspective on the beer side we're in the upper 30s.
And we think there's a little bit more runway there but not a tremendous amount of runway.
But the overall beer category has been growing 4% 5%.
So over the past few years we've been getting a double whammy relative to the growth there.
That's going to start to moderate out.
I think in China it's a bit different.
We come from a very low level of can share penetration.
As we said before it's about 6%.
China is the fastest-growing beer market in the world from an overall literage [ph] perspective.
And I think those 2 issues alone create an algorithmic trajectory.
Just to give you another data point that helps support that I know in Vietnam 3 4 years ago the can had a share of the beer market of around 16% 17%.
And now it's in the mid-20s 24% 25% so that's just another proof point of some of the things that we are seeing over there.
Research Division</strong> What would you say is the biggest risk to the long-term growth and profit expectations you have for those 2 markets other than just GDP growth slowing? Well I think in Brazil as we talked about they're benefiting as an economy right now in the rise of the middle class.
And I think to answer your question that's it the rise of the middle class.
In Brazil because the infrastructure around the Olympics around the World Cup I think for the next couple of years we can clearly see and have good visibility into the continued rise of the incomes of the middle class.
In China I think it's a foregoing conclusion as well.
They have spent the last 3 years or so really putting emphasis on the consumer side of the business and going from an export market on the industrial side to an internal consumption.
And so when you have all those people move migrating from the rural areas to the urban areas I think it just continues to bode well.
But it is an element that when there is a rise in the middle class our products always do well.
And candidly I think over the last 3 4 years in North America the reason why we're seeing softness in the overall categories of beverages as well as the can is because the middle class hasn't been increasing.
It's been decreasing.
Our next question from the line of Andy Feinman with Iridian Asset Management.
Can you tell me -- I know the press release has the weighted average number of shares during the quarter but can you give me the numbers you have at the end of the quarter? Yes it was 156 497 000 Andy basic.
Okay.
And you said you made your annual pension contribution during the first quarter.
So can you say how much it was? Yes I think it was like $85 million -- $95 million in the first quarter which was the vast majority of what we have to fund this year.
And the incremental increase was almost all in the first quarter.
So for some reason I thought it was going to be $135 million.
Does $95 million include the pace you go through stuff also or does that just include catch up? No the incremental.
So right the full year is still $135 million.
But usually a chunk of that is spread throughout the year.
The big piece of it was done in the first quarter.
So $95 million of the $135 million is done.
Okay.
And then the last question that I had was last year your corporate overhead was I think $71.5 million.
Correct.
I expected that they would be down this year I don't know why.
But in the first quarter it was up a little.
So the question is whether that number is likely to be lower this year or the same or up? We're still having the same range that -- the first quarter we had a huge run up in the stock price.
And although we're hedging a good chunk of the stock price impact from various benefit plan we're still a little bit -- it's not hedged and so that cost us a few million dollars more in the first quarter than what we are expecting.
So it's a little bit higher than what we thought in the first quarter.
So around that range last year is still the number that we are expecting for full year.
We have a follow-up question from the line of George Staphos Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 last questions.
Back to the question of Aerospace John could you maybe articulate what few projects -- let me say it differently.
If things go as you expect how many products do you expect to be awarded by the end of this year? Is it possible to predict that at all? And then the second question totally unrelated.
In aluminum bottle I thought one of your competitors was perhaps adding some capacity.
Do you not view that as a competitive threat down the road in terms of specialty cans and special aluminum packaging? Yes George this is John.
As you know it's difficult to answer your question but I'll try the best I can.
At any given time we have over 300 bids from very big to very small and it varies by business.
Some of the bigger ones that we have outstanding we really can't talk about because they're in a classified world but they do fit in the sweet spot of what was the progress we've been making over the past number of years in that.
We have a variety of other things candidly that have been slipping to the right a little bit because of these funding issues.
They are usually more on the smaller side and more on the tactical side whether it's antennas for the joint strike fighter or other things as that.
Ramp up of that new program doesn't go as quickly because of funding and because of other issues.
But I think overall as was mentioned before the overall amount of bids we see stronger today than it's been in the past.
And the only question mark in our mind is how quickly can the U.S.
government and how quickly does the U.S.
government need to move on some of these things when you have a bifurcated Congress you have an election of not only the Senate the Congress as well as the presidency.
And it's just I don't want to predict when people will make decisions in an uncertain environment like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on beer cans? Beer bottles? The person that's putting that capacity has not had access to our technology so it's a self-make proposition for them.
So I'm not really worried about it.
Research Division</strong> And you feel fairly comfortable about Alumi-Tek's cost position versus other technologies at this juncture? And if so why? Well because we've been doing it for a while and it's not easy to do.
And if we've learned a lot of stuff we've been doing that for 2 or 3 years you'd be surprised what you can learn in 2 or 3 years.
And we've a lot of learned a lot of things George.
And we make it at a lot lower cost now than we did when we first started making it.
We've improved the technology.
I'd said before we got some stuff in the R&amp;D -- in our R&amp;D pipeline that looks really really encouraging to us.
So we're just -- we just have a big lead.
Eventually they'll figure it out probably but it's taken us a while.
Research Division</strong> Do you see Alumi-Tek taking share from mainstream glass in beer markets? Or really is the price gap such that it's still going to be more of an event or a specialty package? I think it's a combination of both.
What you are seeing you certainly see it in the venue event venues.
So that is quite a positive.
But you're also seeing an awful lot in the convenience stores.
And that is quite honestly targeted towards some of the more premium and that really is glass.
And you're able to buy 9 packs now and some other things like that.
Our customer who's using it is promoting it an awful lot not only marketing but also advertisement television advertisement radio advertisement billboard and so they're quite bullish on it and we're here to support them.
Mr.
Hayes I'll return the call back to you sir.
There are no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Well we appreciate the participation of you all and let's look forward to a good second quarter and the balance of the year.
And we'll talk to you in July.
So thanks everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and kindly ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Ball Corporation's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday July 26 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Hayes CEO.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Jennifer and good morning everyone.
This is Ball Corporation's conference call regarding the company's second quarter 2012 results.
The information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Some factors that could cause the results or outcomes to differ are in the company's latest 10-Q and in other company SEC filings as well as company news releases.
If you don't already have our earnings release it's available on our website at ball.com.
Information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
Now joining me on the call today are Scott Morrison our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Ray Seabrook Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Global Packaging.
In a moment Scott will discuss our financial results for the quarter.
Ray will follow up with details about our packaging operating performance and I'll close with comments on aerospace and the outlook for the second half of 2012.
Today Ball reported second quarter 2012 results slightly ahead of last year's results.
Recall that we had mentioned in April that our first half results would be relatively flat as compared to the first half of 2011.
And to date we performed slightly better than we expected.
Our Drive for 10 levers include maximizing the value of our existing businesses broadening our geographic reach expanding into new products and capabilities aligning ourselves with the right customers and markets and leveraging our technology expertise to create competitive advantage.
During the quarter we made progress in all of these.
And several highlights include new metal beverage container plants in Qingdao China.
Alagoinhas Brazil and Ho Chi Minh City Vietnam all began production in the second quarter further broadening our geographic reach.
The Alumi-Tek reclosable bottle continued to add to its customer portfolio as we expanded this product in the new end markets including craft beer and CSD.
In fact year-to-date our total specialty can portfolio in North America grew approximately 24%.
Ball Aerospace is leveraging its technological expertise.
The B612 Foundation recently announced that Ball Aerospace will build a space telescope named Sentinel which will scan the solar system for asteroids posing a threat to Earth.
This will be the first privately-funded deep-space mission.
And in addition to this we want additional work that will soon be included in our backlog highlighting the growth of this business despite an uncertain funding environment.
We continue to make good progress in all 5 of our Drive for 10 strategic levers.
And while we wish our end markets were just a little bit more robust 2012 is progressing just as we expected.
I'll turn it over to Scott to talk about the quarter and then Ray will provide color on our operations.
I'll return with comments on our aerospace business and the outlook for 2012.
Scott? Thanks John.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the second quarter of 2012 were $0.89 versus last year's $0.85.
The following factors contributed favorably to the second quarter results: higher volumes in Brazil and China as well as continued growth in specialty can volumes; solid program performance in aerospace business; a lower effective tax rate and a lower share count.
FX translation negatively impacted the second quarter by $0.04.
For a complete summary of the second quarter results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis please refer to the Notes section of today's earnings release.
Recapping the key financial metrics for 2012 interest expense will remain the same at approximately $175 million.
Taking into account certain tax benefits achieved in the first half of the year the full year 2012 effective tax rate is projected to be around 29% so the tax rate in the remaining 2 quarters of 2012 will run closer to 32%.
Given recent global growth trends full year 2012 CapEx is now anticipated to be in the range of $350 million.
With the change in CapEx and some improvements in working capital we now expect 2012 free cash flow to be at least $0.5 billion with most of the free cash flow being returned to shareholders through share repurchases.
Year to date we have repurchased approximately $275 million of our stock.
At current exchange rates year-end net debt is expected to be approximately $3 billion roughly flat versus 2011.
With that I'll turn it over to Ray to talk more about the packaging operations.
Thanks Scott.
Comparable second quarter operating earnings in the metal beverage Americas and Asia segment were up 8% and through the first half are up over last year's level.
Remember first quarter sales volumes in Brazil were slow due to customer geographic supply relocation.
But as Scott mentioned have picked up in the second quarter and are up 10% through the first half.
We expect this trend to continue in the second half and still expect mid-teens growth in Brazil for the full year.
Sales volumes in North America were relatively flat through the first half with custom cans continuing to grow -- to show nice growth.
Second quarter operating earnings in the Americas were up on the strength of tighter cost controls and better sales mix in North America partially offset by higher cost inventory from Brazil production curtailments primarily late in the first quarter and second quarter and start-up costs at our new Alagoinhas plants which came on line in the second quarter.
For the balance of the year we foresee the North American favorable sales mix continuing and expect that the Brazilian start-up costs are behind us.
In Asia the new can plants in Vietnam and Qingdao China are performing well.
And from an operating standpoint we're coming out of start-up by the end of the second quarter.
Sales volumes in China through the first half are up low double digits with operating results a little ahead of last year's level in the quarter and for the -- and through the first 6 months.
Comparable European operating results in the quarter were lower than a year ago primarily due to a lower euro exchange rate and to a lesser extent some price cost squeeze in the beverage cans.
Beverage can volumes in Europe were up low-single digits in the quarter and through the first 6 months in spite of poor early summer weather.
Despite an appreciably lower euro exchange rate we expect third quarter segment earnings to be comparable to or slightly better than a year ago due to some relatively easy comps.
Second quarter and first half earnings in the U.S.
Metal Food &amp; Household Products segment were on plan but below last year due to inventory gains made in 2011 that were not realized this year.
Food can volumes through the first half were mid single-digit below last year's level and this trend will probably continue in the second half due to the drought weather conditions being experienced in most of the U.S.
Despite this difficult weather situation we still foresee quarterly earnings -- segment earnings returning to a more typical seasonal pattern this year which was reversed in 2011.
With that said we look forward to higher segment earnings in the second half than we earned in the first half.
With that I'll turn it back to you John.
Great.
Thanks Ray.
Aerospace and technologies posted near double-digit EBIT margins for the quarter.
Backlog ended the quarter at $780 million which is holding in nicely and as I mentioned earlier is poised to grow as we move forward due to some recent wins.
Previously awarded fixed-price programs continue to ramp up and the program performance in that business is excellent.
As is evident with the Sentinel win our aerospace team is executing on their Drive for 10 game plan.
Our best cost best value positioning provides Ball Aerospace a firm foundation heading into the election cycle.
Now looking out beyond 2012 late in the second quarter the company was notified of a shift in CSD customer requirements for our North American metal beverage packaging business beginning January 1 2013.
While we've lost some volume due to this shift we have also gained some business from new and existing customers.
In keeping with the Drive for 10 strategic lever of maximizing the value on our existing businesses Ball will act appropriately in the -- to the resulting changes in supply and demand across our manufacturing footprint.
And we are currently finalizing our plans which are expected to include both permanent and temporary capacity realignment to address the situation.
More information will be forthcoming in the near future regarding these activities.
We believe that the net impact of this customer shift is not material to Ball's 2013 results and does not impede our ability to execute our Drive for 10 operational and financial goals.
In summary we are slightly better than what we had planned halfway through the year.
And as we always do we are responding to the market environment from a cost and capital perspective that should generate higher free cash flow this year.
We will continue our long-standing disciplined capital deployment strategy to return value to our shareholders and grow our company.
With a slightly improved first half behind us we are positive about the rest of this year and beyond.
Profitability in the back half of 2012 will ramp up as new emerging market plants and the food and household business enter their seasonally stronger quarters and we remain on track to achieve our 10% to 15% diluted per earnings share growth goal.
Recall that Drive for 10 is a mindset about perfection in everything we do and it will play a key role in achieving our goal to more than doubling the EVA dollars generated over the next 10 years as well as generating a compound average growth rate of 10% to 15% earnings per share over that time.
So with that Jennifer we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question I had you said you wouldn't let us know about your plans for I guess capacity and production within North America at some point in the future.
Will that happen before the third quarter earnings call or when do you expect that you might be able to talk a little bit more about that? Yes George this is Ray.
The -- some details on that plan probably will be announced before the third quarter call I would suspect.
So let me see if I can lay this out for you.
So late in 2011 we extended a long-term customer contract.
And as part of that extension as John mentioned in his comments we picked up some fairly substantial volume which would start in '13.
And so that's been done.
And as part -- and then I would say in probably 3 or 4 weeks ago we were notified by our customer that we'd lost some volume in '13.
We've lost more than we've picked up.
And so we have put together a tentative plan that as John mentioned rationalizes some surplus capacity.
We've been doing a lot of shipping of our specialty cans across the country so we're going to use this situation to improve our specialty can footprint.
So we're going to do some of that.
And then the capacity that we rationalize we're going to move it to growing markets.
So what you'll find is when we move this capacity it costs us about half as much to install capacity that has been reconditioned as opposed to buying new.
So that's the initial plan.
We have 2 or 3 -- we have several near-term opportunities that probably will flesh themself out in the next 60 days.
And once we see what those look like -- and those opportunities primarily are not in 12-ounce cans or specialty cans and other things.
And so once we flesh those out we'll finalize our plans and move forward.
So as John said the initial look at this is that it's not that significant to us as we look at '13.
Does that help? Research Division</strong> Yes it does.
I appreciate the color.
One additional follow-on to that and then maybe a couple other quick ones I'll turn it over.
Would it be fair to say that what you lost is maybe 2x what you gained going into this year? And does this affect at all the Columbus lines that I know you haven't been running this year? George this is John.
I think it's premature to talk about any of that right now.
It's -- I think the key highlight is we've got a game plan.
We have a variety of stakeholders that we need to deal with.
And at the appropriate time we'll let people know what that is.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
I mean this has been a long time coming so it's probably not a total surprise here.
I guess can you comment at all in terms of how the new plants are coming up the learning curve? Have you gotten to a point where they are at least breakeven from a margin standpoint? Are they still -- from an earnings standpoint are they still dilutive at this juncture on the curve? They're pretty much -- as we sit here today they might be out of it.
But pretty much for the second quarter they were all in start-up.
So they were dilutive.
So they weren't adding anything.
They've all come up differently.
So the plant in Vietnam it's come up a little slower because the work force is totally new.
And it just takes time to learn how to do this thing.
So Vietnam is fine but it's come up a little slower.
Qingdao which is the one in China has come up quicker.
But remember we relocated a lot of employees from an old plant that we shuttered to the new plant.
So we had much more expertise in Qingdao.
So it's come up better.
And as a matter of fact we're even converting it to a different size right now as we speak.
And then the one in Brazil as I mentioned in the first quarter we had some customer relocation situations with it.
So it's really wasn't much -- it really wasn't a situation for the plant not coming up.
It was to get the customer situation sorted out and that's been done.
So they're all a little bit different.
But they're kind of all running now to speed and we expect as I said a better third quarter.
Research Division</strong> So Alagoinhas is where you wanted it in the second quarter and...
Alagoinhas yes it's now where we wanted it but it took a while to get there because if you'll remember we got a new customer location there.
And so it just took a little longer than we had first anticipated.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
The last one for John.
John what does Sentinel add to the backlog? And do you have a view on project awards that have been funded that maybe didn't get to your June 30 backlog what that would -- what that increment might look like? Yes Sentinel is not funded and it's not in the backlog as well.
The non-for-profit the 501(c)(3) needs to go through a fundraising exercise.
But they have announced that we will be the prime in building that.
So it's a bit uncertain when they'll do that fundraising.
We have in there very -- in the past couple of weeks have won a couple of other things in the classified world that for obvious reasons we can't talk about but we believe will add materially to our backlog in the second half of the year and most likely in the third quarter.
And our next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> John just more color on the CapEx reduction.
Which regions does this adjustment -- which region is this specific to? And also is this a function of you not winning some business that you thought you might have had at the beginning of the year or is it just market condition based? No it's exclusively market condition based.
And what I would say is things are moving out to the right.
The overall growth of the global economy has slowed down.
So I hope people aren't surprised by this.
We're being prudent about it.
But as you know the vast majority of our growth capital was allocated more towards Asia generally speaking.
So I think the vast majority of what's being pushed to the right is probably in that same area.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe I misheard this but the custom cans were they up 24% year-over-year in North America? Is that right? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And where were standard cans down for the quarter in North America? Ray do you have that? No I don't have that.
But obviously that was the difference obviously.
So we were flat.
So if -- you can kind of do the math.
Research Division</strong> Okay I can try and do that.
And the volume trajectory in Europe on the beverage can side has that changed inter-quarter month-to-month? It was -- in the second quarter it was a little bit slower than the first quarter.
I think the big reasons for that were largely weather.
It's -- we talked last year this time last year about Europe having a terrible summer for weather.
Well it's equal to or worse this year than it was last year.
Offsetting that we had some of the World Cup and some others things going through.
So we've been holding our own.
But it was up low-single digits.
And our next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
On Americas Asia the cost-mix benefit in North America any -- can you calibrate roughly how much is cost and mix there? Ray? Yes it's more mix than cost.
I don't know the exact numbers but I would say that it's 70-30.
The mix been 70% of the improvement and 30% being cost.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And just with respect to the specialty cans and the mix benefit there would you say you're pretty much fully ramped on that benefit in the second quarter in terms of how we think about the run rate of that towards the -- through the second half? Well when you say fully ramped I'm not quite sure.
We expect continued growth in the specialty cans side of the business.
We've -- for external market reasons and we've been doing a lot of marketing and push from that overall product line whether it's the Alumi-Tek bottle smaller sizes larger sizes punch-top ends things like that.
It's a whole variety of different things.
Research Division</strong> Yes I guess I was just referring to -- I mean you brought on some new capacity and I was just wondering if you're kind of -- you're essentially running full getting the full profit benefit today? Well we're certainly running very strong.
Yes we are to a point -- as I said before the footprint isn't quite the way we'd like it.
So we're spending a lot of money in freight shipping stuff in places we'd rather make it close to where our customer is.
So we're going to fix that.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And just with the CapEx reduction for this year how should we think about preliminary thoughts around CapEx for next year? Perhaps Scott you could kind of talk about maintenance and whatever carryover there might be from any existing projects that would be kind of the starting point for next year? Sure.
Well it's a little early to talk about CapEx for next year.
But think about -- we just started up 3 new plants and so just to keep up with incremental growth you don't need to spend as much capital.
So I would expect CapEx to trend down.
But it's really more of a question of how strong global growth will be or not be.
And I think we'll make more money next year and so I think free cash flow probably goes up again next year.
It's just a question of how much.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then final question is just on the comment about moving some of the can lines from North America to emerging markets and the cost saves from doing that.
I mean as you look at the emerging markets today which markets do you think actually need new capacity? And if we think about Brazil and China it feels like they don't.
Well I said -- I purposely didn't --  I said growing.
So you could even see some of the stuff -- we're fundamentally sold-out in Europe as we speak.
So it's been growing 5% in the last -- since ever.
So I'm not saying -- and it cost about half to redeploy -- to get a line in that's been refurbished versus buying new.
So I don't know exactly as we sit here now where this is going but it -- we definitely have growth markets for beverage cans.
And this equipment that we rationalized as part of this exercise is going to end up somewhere where we need it.
And our next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> When I look at your bev business if I heard you correctly volumes were up low-single digits.
But your EBIT on a year-over-year basis was down considerably.
So I just want to know if there are any other factors other than FX weighing on the quarter? Yes the primary effect -- now remember in the European numbers is also our extruded aerosol business Aerocan.
And the volumes were down just a little bit in that business so it's not all beverage cans.
So most of it is FX but there's about EUR 6 million that probably is -- what I would classify as price cost.
We haven't been able to pass on all our cost increases to our customers as part of our pricing...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And that's also on the bev can side is that correct? Those are on the bev can side yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And demand ticking up I mean at least holding up decently in Europe on the bev can side.
How do you feel about pricing next year because as you mentioned earlier supply sounds to be pretty tight at this point.
Well as you'll recall I think earlier this year on a conference call we talked about in 2012 we had plans to put some capacity in.
But we shelved those plans because we said "You know what there's price cost going on in the marketplace and we need to get our pricing right." So as we sit here today Ray just mentioned that we continue to see some growth.
But in terms of prioritization our first priority is get our pricing right and then we'll start to look at growth.
And so as we go on the balance of 2012 and into 2013 that is kind of our strategy and go-to moves relative to what we're trying to do.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last final question for Ray.
Demand for Brazil and China did pick-up in Q2.
Is the back half still pretty robust? Because one of your competitors kind of talked about how both demand in China and Brazil is slowing.
There's excise tax in the back half.
So I just want to get a little clarity on what's giving you the confidence that demand is going to still be pretty solid? Yes that's all true.
We -- actually we had lower demand in the first quarter.
I think we're up like 30% in the second net-net through year-to-date.
In Brazil we're up 10%.
I said in my comments that we expect full year to be up 17%.
So that means that we got to have a pretty good back half.
And in our particular can -- and the thing about the beer is correct.
The new beer taxes has caused some slowdown.
There's no question about it.
But we really have our contracts in place and our customers' positions in place where we're highly confident with what I said is going to happen.
And our next question comes from the line of Adam Josephson from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Regarding demand in Brazil to what extent are you experiencing a slowdown of the conversion from returnable bottles to metal cans there? One of your competitors talked about that earlier decline.
Well this is John.
When you look at the aluminum can market growth in Brazil in the second quarter it was reasonably healthy both double digits in CSD and beer.
I can tell you that on the beer side that we continue to see an uptick in can penetration.
If you look year-over-year and again you have to look at month-to-month but it's up about a point.
And we're not quite at 40% but we're worth a stone's throw of that.
And so we continue to see improvement there.
Research Division</strong> With regard to the free cash flow guidance how much of an additional benefit do you expect to get from better working capital versus lower CapEx? There's a chunk of working capital too.
We've got a number of plans across all the businesses really a variety of different things that we're doing from an operation standpoint a treasury standpoint a sourcing standpoint that are all benefiting us.
So we still expect -- part of the improvement of free cash flow for this year is coming from benefits that we're going to get on the working capital side.
It's not all the CapEx.
And our next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on the beer penetration question.
Moving to Asia though in particular China it sounded as if penetration there has slowed somewhat.
I realize you're adding capacity slower than the market over there.
But what are you seeing overall with can penetration in Asia? And how do you feel about your capacity additions versus market growth right now? Why don't I talk about can penetration and Ray can talk about our capacity.
I think in the second quarter our overall beer market in China was up 5.5-or-so percent and cans were up double digits.
So that says cans continue to have further penetration.
Recall it's only in the beer segment for example it's only about 6% penetration.
So there's a lot of room for improvement there.
But as I said it is growing -- the cans growing at a rate faster than the end beverage markets which obviously means better can penetration.
Yes and as far as the capacity goes our original plan in China this year we were importing I think 300 million or 400 million cans.
And I think that's gone down.
As you said the market has slowed a little bit.
But fundamentally we're sold-out.
Every can we could make we're selling.
So -- and as we look to next year we are putting in a little capacity this year.
We've -- some of that slowed.
We've had some issues getting some land in the South that we thought we had.
So we will be sold-out again next year.
So everything we can make we can sell.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just overall for the metal beverage and Asia business looks like operating profit was essentially flat in the first half of the year.
You had said before I think that you thought you could get the operating earnings up somewhere in the 10% to 15% range for this segment for the year.
How are you feeling about that right now? And do you think you can get there with improvement in the second half? Yes we will definitely improve in the second half.
There's no question about it.
The -- whether I can get to the 10% to 15% I think is more difficult now because we're a little slower than we thought.
But we will come close to the bottom part of that range.
Let's put it that way.
Research Division</strong> And how much do you think currency is impacting that though? Well we've had a little negative currency in China actually.
And the Brazil currency tends to devalue which really doesn't have an impact -- such a big impact to us.
We have lost actually a little currency in our China business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on this shift in business in North America.
I mean it sounds as if maybe it's more of a price issue rather than you not having obviously the capacity to serve the customer.
Is that your sense of the shift in volumes at this point? Yes these things happen from time-to-time.
If you -- I think some of it is sheet for me since 1990 on who's gained who's lost volume and actually I think we're net-net.
I think after this that we're like 500 million with where we started with.
So these things come and go a little bit.
Usually if you lose volume it's price.
And we don't do things for practice here.
And we're not going to do things for practice.
So we've got a plan to deal with this situation.
So we're going to deal with it and try to make the most amount of money we can.
And our next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Scott I wondered look like you made some changes recently in depreciation assumptions.
Can you just give us a little background on that? Yes we looked at all of our -- if you look at our 10-K there is a fairly detailed explanation of what we did.
But we looked at -- as we standardized accounting practices around the world if you look at the different lines that we're using in different places and so we standardize that.
And with that came a change in depreciation.
What also happened was change in how we expensed some things too.
So net-net on a full year basis there really wasn't much of a difference.
But that was the change.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then over in food and beverage can you talk about the fallout if any from the drought? And can you also talk about how much that slug business may be adding to EBIT right now? Yes this is Ray.
The slug business is fairly small.
It's up year-over-year.
In our food can business you've heard a lot of commenting on corn.
We heard a lot of comment on the radio about corn.
Corn is not that big of an impact for us.
We're much heavily weighted towards let's say green beans or tomatoes.
And the drought certainly has an impact.
But it hasn't impacted those crops quite as bad as it has corn.
The yield even on corn is something like 50%.
So our guys -- it's going to hurt us no doubt in the second half from otherwise what it would have done.
But I don't think it's a huge impact for us.
It'll be lower but not that significant.
Research Division</strong> If you try to put that in just volume terms right what would it be kind of a ballpark as you see it right now? I got it more on EBIT terms.
But in volume terms it's probably a 2% or 3% lower than otherwise for us it would have been.
Research Division</strong> And in EBIT? Yes I got it in my head I'm not trying [indiscernible].
I've got it but I'm not sure I'm sharing it.
Research Division</strong> And John probably can you just talk about the acquisition landscape and whether you think given the slowing in emerging markets whether that may present some more opportunities for you if you're patient over the next year or 2? Yes I think you've hit the nail on head.
I do think when you look at where Ball has been successful about acquisitions it's usually not in times of rosy economic environments but in more challenging ones.
And I'm thinking back into the 2009 when we acquired Metal Container.
I'm thinking about the 2006 time frame when we acquired U.S.
Can and then back -- even going as far back as 2002 into the headwinds of a credit issue in Germany we did quite well with Schmalbach.
The environment today feels a bit like that.
And I think sellers' expectations are coming down.
You guys know we're very disciplined in what we do.
And so sometimes we're quite competitive than in an acquisition sense and sometimes we're not because credit is flowing freely and we have to compete with sponsors et cetera.
But it does feel a little bit better today and as we go forward not only in developed markets but also as you said in developing markets that expectations are becoming a little bit more rational.
And our next question comes from the line of Alton Stump with Longbow Research.
It's actually Phil Terpolilli calling in for Alton.
Just 2 quick questions.
A lot of ours have been answered.
You mentioned weak volume conditions still in standard cans in North America.
Any signs of the major CSD players picking up promotions so far this summer? That's been one of the issues that there hasn't been a lot of promotion in CSD.
I think there's been pockets.
But generally speaking most of our customers have been sticking to their knitting and they've been going for price and not volume.
And I said there's been pockets of it but there's probably more promotion in beer than there has been in soft drinks.
Okay that's helpful.
And then Scott can you quantify that impact of currency to European beverage at all for 2Q? From a translation standpoint or on the -- I'm sorry on the EBIT side you said? Yes.
I think the translation was $10 million of EBIT in the quarter from a currency standpoint.
The rest was the price cost mix that Ray talked about.
And our next question comes from the line of Al Kabili with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just on Europe bev you guys from the sounds of it outperformed the overall industry a little bit in the second quarter.
And I was wondering if you gained any share this year or if that's just a geographic mix difference? I think maybe a tad but not much.
I think we did outperform the market just a little bit.
And I think we did gain just -- but it's not a lot.
It's -- the shares are still fairly comparable but I think we did gain a little bit of share.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you just help us with -- if you saw any noticeable differences by region across Europe how that's trending recently? Across Europe generally speaking I think in the West -- in the Western part of Europe it's actually held up okay for example in the Benelux region which is a big export for many of the multinational beer companies there.
That's been reasonably healthy.
You've clearly seen some softness in the U.K.
because of the weather.
I don't know who watched the British Open but you could see how wet it was there.
And then as you go into the East it varies so much.
You have some strength in certain areas and some weaknesses in other areas.
So I don't think there's big big deviations between regions in what I just said however.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
On the aerospace side you had a great second quarter there.
And I was wondering if that's a sustainable EBIT that you see or if there was any kind of benefit from onetime project closeout benefits or how we should be thinking about the run rate for aerospace with the backlog you've got? Yes the short answer there was no big material onetime items that impacted the second quarter.
Our guys are performing very well.
As we've talked about this in the past we have a bit more -- a fixed cost business as a percent of the total business which usually is helpful from a margin perspective.
And that combined with our strong execution we feel pretty good about that business.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And along those lines you've indicated some potential new business that you're looking at or bidding on there if I caught other earlier comments right.
And I was just wondering if you could just help us with potential size of that as relative to backlog.
What's in the pipeline there or what are you seeing for potential new business? Well I think maybe you hopped on late.
We did talk about that we've won some new business.
It hasn't been booked but we expect in third quarter for it to book and we expect it to be material.
Remember it wasn't what 18 months ago that we're close to $1 billion of backlog.
We weren't quite there.
We can see a line of sight if certain things happen that within the next short period of time probably not in the third quarter but certainly over the next few quarters that we could be at or even above that level where we were just 18 months ago.
Was that aerospace or packaging that question? Research Division</strong> It was aerospace.
Okay great that's helpful.
And then the last question is just housekeeping on the corporate line.
It was lower than at least I expected this quarter.
And I was wondering what we should be thinking about for corporate expense? This should be similar to what it was last year for full year.
There were just some things that occurred in the quarter that were a little bit favorable but we don't expect those to continue.
So full year numbers should be very comparable to last year.
And our next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> If we go around the world and just focus on your beverage can business in the key regions can you provide a guesstimate or maybe you actually have the data of what the market was up in the second quarter and the first half for beverage can demand? Let me give you the U.S.
So the -- let's start with the U.S.
So the quarter was down a little bit.
You got soft drinks down and you had beer up.
But net-net the quarter was down about 2% a little bit less.
And then year-to-date it's kind of flat.
And in Europe you've got the quarter down about 1% or flattish or down to 1%.
And you've got year-to-date of 3%.
Up 3%.
The numbers -- yes up 3%.
In Brazil you've got about 8% market growth in the quarter year-to-date.
And I think that was about the same for the second quarter.
And in China it's somewhere between 9% and 12% year-to-date.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
Right.
And then Scott did you guys buy back any stock in July thus far? Yes the comments I made in the prepared comments is through year-to-date through right now we've repurchased about 275 million net of shares.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's year-to-date.
I thought that was for this second half.
Okay and then it's been really impressive to see how much stocks you bought back over the last couple of years evident in the share price performance.
Looking forward can you just remind us how you think about buying back stock versus potentially a special dividend versus potentially a more incremental sustainable dividend? Yes we look at the dividend level all the time.
We've raised that quite a bit in the last couple of years.
But we continue to orient most of our returning value to shareholders through share buyback.
And we'll continue to do that.
But we do always evaluate what level of dividends we're paying and where we want to be so.
And one of the positives at least as we sit here today is tell us what the government's policy is going to be 6 or 9 months from now and we can probably have a firmer answer.
But with the elections coming up I think there's lot of things on the table our government needs to deal with.
And our next question comes from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of -- kind of help me clarify a few items.
When I look at -- Scott you said that the total impact was about 10 million of currency translation in the Euro bev piece I believe.
If I look at the 19 million differential at least there's 9 other that part price but volume were up as well.
So can you maybe help me if you don't mind parse what the differential is? How that -- the price cut how that continues through the rest of the year? And then really what I'm trying to drive at and I think this goes along with another question is do you feel that in 2013 you can recover a chunk of that? Well I'll give you -- I'll talk a little bit about the quarter though and maybe let Ray chime in.
In the quarter that [ph] was currency.
Remember we said Aerocan was a little bit softer so that was a couple.
And the rest was on the beverage side price cost mix with volume obviously offsetting some of the price cost but not all of it.
So going forward as John mentioned in his comments one of the things we need to do is improve the price cost situation in Europe.
And I think we're going to be real focused on that as we move into '13.
LLC Research Division</strong> And is that event you can do in '13 you believe carve back even half of that? Well it's...
The short answer is it's too early to tell but that's what's going to be our objective.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you can help me clarify earlier comments where you talked about -- you tried to provide us some color around -- or at least some thoughts around preliminary -- what the contract movements and then what your own actions on the specialty cans and then realignment -- things could do for '13 versus changes.
I think you said it would not be material to the enterprise.
So -- I mean should I basically interpret that as 2013 EBIT out of your metal beverage Americas Asia could be at worst case flat? Yes I -- obviously it will be lower than otherwise it would have been without the loss of business.
No question about that.
With the growth in China and Brazil I would say that that's a reasonable assumption.
I think we -- it's too early to predict '13 but based on things that we know we would tell you that '13 will be flatter than it otherwise would be.
And we don't think that -- we think it will be flattish.
Yes.
Our guys -- having said that our guys in North America have done a very good job of planning.
And while we haven't announced anything they're well on their way to recouping most if not all of the impact there.
And so work continues on that.
As Ray said -- Ray articulately outlined some of the things we're thinking of and so stay tuned.
Yes and the thing is I would have stressed this we do have some several near-term opportunities in specialty cans and even in some other things we're working on.
So that's one of the reasons we haven't finalized our plans yet.
We need to see how these things turn out.
So -- and they're not 12-ounce opportunities.
They're specialty cans and end situations.
So stay tuned.
LLC Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
I guess this is a -- probably a question we'll follow-up with again after your next quarters you get a better sense of what you're doing or where things are moving around and what you might win.
But that's very helpful.
Last question I had was with regards to change of can size and some of the things going on in China.
That's a new line that you just put in.
I think there had been some conversions from T [ph] that were taking place from 3 to 2.
Can you talk a little bit more about what you are seeing in China? What -- why a new line you're putting in place you're already making  conversion to what you're seeing? Yes we're seeing sort of the same phenomenon.
We didn't talk about Europe at even our specialty what we call non-12-ounce business in Europe it's up 8% year-to-date.
So we're seeing generally a trend from our customers.
As they look at their markets and business is tough out there they look at new products and new opportunities to expand their markets.
And they wanted different sizes different shapes different types of things.
And even in China where the can is in its infancy they're still looking at different types of situations for cans.
And we want to -- we make sure we give our customers what they need.
So you yes we -- in China we've already got our brand new Qingdao line we're converting to a different size for while.
We're going to be on that size for a while and then we'll convert back to 12 ounce.
We put enough flexibility when we built that plant that we have the ability to convert it.
And our next question comes from the line of Todd Wenning from Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> With the recent fire at your plant in North Wales do you know yet how that might affect your U.K.
supply going into the back of the year? Yes it's -- this is John.
It's -- the short answer is it's not material.
We had a small fire on July 22.
There was no injuries.
It was just contained in a portion of the facilities.
The warehouses wasn't impacted.
We expect -- and this happened I guess it was on Sunday I guess it was.
We expect 2 of the 4 lines to be up and running by the end of this week.
And then a third line running in the very near future and then the fourth line it's too early to tell but probably a couple of weeks out beyond that.
So not a material impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay well that's good news.
Could you give us an update on your volume expectations for the punch top cans going into the back half? Yes.
For those who don't know the punch top cans I think you're referring to is in one of our beer customers.
And they've had a lot of good success with that.
It's always tough to tell the incremental growth because you don't know what it would have been and without it.
But what we've been hearing from our customers is that that's been actually helping the overall brand for them.
And they have seen a lift in cans with that package relative to their glass containers.
So that's probably all I should say right now.
But it's a good example of how innovation can add growth into a category that historically has not been as strong.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally how much of the North America specialty can volume gains came from craft beer versus other beverage types? Difficult to tell.
I don't have it in front of me but from a product...
With several energy drinks we're growing quite strong.
We got 16-ounce energy drinks 24-ounce energy drinks.
But I don't have that number either.
But it's - - all those specialty can segments are -- continued to show a lot of promise.
Yes and it's not isolated into the one size either.
We had good growth in the smaller sizes good growth into the larger sizes good growth in Alumi-Tek.
So it really is spread across the board.
And our next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
John you mentioned that one of your key near-term priorities in the beverage can market is to get pricing a little bit stronger relative to costs and can you just give us a little more color on the geographies where that needs to be done sort of more than others where it doesn't need to be as much of a focus? Well I think my comments were related more to Europe than anywhere else.
And we've been talking about a little bit of price cost compression.
It isn't wholesale but it's not where we want to be.
And so what we're focused on is we can add capacity.
Typically when we do that it's on the tail-end of a customer contract.
You all know how we do that.
But we're more focused on a relative sense of getting pricing to where we think it ought to be and getting back to where it was as opposed to adding capacity into a market that has been over-served and has been a bit soft.
So that's particularly to Europe.
I think generally speaking the overall economy is putting pricing pressure on many many different industries and our industries are not any different.
We've been able to weather much of that because we focus on what we do best which is getting more for less and being very efficient with not only our capital but our labor and things like that.
We continue to have a lot of initiatives over in Asia here in North America down in South America and over in Europe to make sure we're focused on that.
And we're seeing a lot of good opportunities that our folks in the plants do a great job at making sure that we're doing that day in and day out.
And so we're going to continue to focus on that but with particular emphasis on the European side.
Got you.
And then I know Ray was talking about the -- using some of the equipment that you might not -- no longer needed in North America overseas and just sort of 2 tangents to that.
One I would assume that you cannot effectively use some of the older standard can equipment in making specialty and that's why you would do that.
And secondly can you give us an idea of the timing? It would seem like this could be stretched out really more into say '14 or '15 as opposed to '13 when we could actually see equipment moving.
Is that a fair assumption? As I said in the next probably 60 days we'll finalize these plans once we see all these other near-term opportunities sort out.
So we will sort that out.
We will -- obviously not all of the equipment is usable as you just mentioned but a lot of it is.
And we've got a pretty good idea where it goes now but we will fine-tune that.
And by the end of the year we'll know where it's going.
Now it may not be all bolted down and installed right away but we know basically what -- probably what markets and what we're going to be doing with it.
And as Ray -- to follow-up on that as well there's 2 binary things here.
It's one about the capacity curtailment permanent curtailment but then the other thing is about where to put that.
And that's dependent upon market growth.
And so we're not just going to automatically put it in somewhere just to say we have it in there.
I think Ray's point is from a capital avoidance as we go forward as new projects come onstream we have that used equipment at our disposal which should help drive down some of our CapEx as we go forward.
Got you.
And you might have answered this but just to be clear you gave us the breakdown between the U.S.
volume changes specialty versus standards and I'm guessing that standard was down around 5%.
So you might clarify that? What was the breakdown in Europe? Overall you said it was up mid-single digits.
How would you break that down between specialty and the standard cans? Well Ray I think mentioned that specialty was up 8% and we were up just low-single digits.
So that would imply that standard was down just a little bit.
[Operator Instructions] We now have a follow-up question from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just want to come back first to a comment that was made on the outlook.
Now from your press release I think you said that the second half you hope to be able to do as well as in the first half if I remember correctly and -- That was for food can? What segment? Research Division</strong> No I think that was in total in earnings per share.
So I was just trying to basically take the conclusion one would draw from that Ray with your comment that you would hope to be at both maybe at the low end of your earnings growth target that you have annually which is 10% to 15%.
Because taking a second half that's a little bit better than your first half if I'm not mistaken would get you into your range? Yes the 10% comment I made is I think I was just talking about the Asia and North America segment.
Someone had asked me -- I think earlier we said we still think we could potentially grow that 10% to 15%.
I think that's going to be difficult.
I think we've got a shot at the bottom into that range but we're going to get close to it close to the bottom end of that range.
Yes.
And I think George what's implied there we expect as we sit here today to do a little bit better in the second half than we did in the first half.
Research Division</strong> Okay we'll keep that in mind as well.
Secondly same vein of question when you were talking about the business shifting within the Americas beverage can business you ultimately mentioned that you didn't think it was significant and that it would ultimately not be -- I forgot what your phrasing was but I'll say significant again -- wouldn't be significant relative to your overall Drive for 10 goals which again includes a 10% to 15% EPS growth.
At this juncture given what -- and I realize some things can change and obviously you don't control the economy or the weather.
Is it your view that next year you would not be able to hit your 10% to 15% range or you think you shall be able to do that even with this dent on the volume front? Well it's -- how I'd describe it is number one we haven't changed our view short-term or long-term point one.
Point two it is too early to tell because there's many things outside of our control.
But we have good plans in place not only in our North American metal beverage business but in all of our businesses over the next 18 months and beyond.
And number three based upon all of that as we get into 2013 we expect to do as well as we possibly can and we're not changing what our long-term goals are.
There are no further questions on the phone lines at this time.
Okay terrific.
Well thanks everyone for participating.
As a heads up our third quarter earnings conference call will be held on October 25 and it's going to be a little bit earlier.
It's going to be at 9:30 a.m.
Eastern Time.
And so everyone have a good rest this summer.
Have a good third quarter and we will look forward to talking to you then.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday October 25 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Hayes President and CEO.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Amit and good morning everyone.
This is Ball Corporation's conference call regarding the company's third quarter 2012 results.
The information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Some factors that could cause the results or outcomes to differ are in the company's latest 10-Q and in other company SEC filings as well as company news releases.
Now if you don't already have our earnings release it's available on our website at ball.com.
Information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
Joining me on the call today are Scott Morrison Senior Vice President and CFO; and Ray Seabrook Executive Vice President and COO Global Packaging.
In a moment Scott will discuss our financial results for the quarter.
Ray will follow with details about our packaging operating performance and I will close with comments on aerospace and the outlook for the fourth quarter.
Ball reported third quarter 2012 results ahead of last year's third quarter.
Recall that we had mentioned in July that our second half 2012 results would be up year-over-year and to date we've performed slightly better than we expected.
During the quarter we made several -- we made progress on all of our Drive for 10 strategic levers.
Several highlights include: In our North American beverage container business we continue to aggressively manage our overall supply to meet market demand.
We announced in August we are removing 12-ounce beverage can capacity from our system converting additional 12-ounce capacity as specialty containers and redistributing can end-making equipment to existing Ball end centers.
In addition during the quarter we initiated the voluntary separation program for salaried U.S.
employees that will help rightsize our administrative expenses relative to our current business.
In our beverage can businesses outside of North America volumes improved nicely due to the startup of our Alagoinhas Brazil; Qingdao China and Ho Chi Minh City Vietnam facilities.
In fact on a global basis volumes were up nearly 7%.
In our aerospace business we continue to leverage our technological expertise as we align with growing markets resulting in a record contracted backlog of $1.1 billion.
We also announced our intentions to acquire an extruded aluminum manufacturing facility in Mexico and form a joint venture in Argentina with Envases del Plata which broadens our geographic reach and brings new capabilities to our metal food and household business.
And finally during the quarter we acquired the beverage can business of [indiscernible] a small regional beverage can manufacturer in Italy for approximately $15 million.
In the first year of operation this investment will exceed our return hurdle.
While world economies may have slowed a bit our businesses are faring well as we continue to actively manage the business and our pace of cost optimization and cash generation is accelerating.
I'll turn it over to Scott to talk about our quarter and then Ray will provide color on our operations.
And I'll return to comment on our aerospace business and the outlook for 2012.
Scott? Thanks John.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the third quarter of 2012 were $0.90 versus last year's $0.81 an increase of 11%.
Also in the quarter the company recorded after-tax charges totaling $26.4 million related mainly to the relocation of our European headquarters and previously announced plant closures.
The following factors contributed favorably to third quarter results: higher volumes in Europe Brazil and China as well as specialty can volume growth; solid program performance in our aerospace business and a lower share count.
FX translation negatively impacted the third quarter by $0.03.
For a complete summary of the third quarter results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis please refer to the Notes Section of today's earnings release.
Recapping key financial metrics for 2012 full year corporate undistributed costs are expected to come in closer to $65 million.
Interest expense will be around $177 million.
The full year 2012 effective tax rate is projected to be around 28% with the fourth quarter rate closer to 31%.
Given recent global growth trends full year 2012 CapEx is anticipated to run under $350 million.
Therefore we continue to expect 2012 free cash flow to be at least $0.5 billion.
At current exchange rates year-end net debt is expected to be just over $3 billion and we will return the majority of our free cash flow to shareholders via share repurchases and dividends versus debt paydown.
Just as a heads up in the fourth quarter Ball will record a $38-million after-tax charge for the closeout  of certain Canadian pension plans costs associated with an employee voluntary separation program in the U.S.
and additional cost associated with previously announced plant closures.
With that I'll turn it over to Ray to talk more about the packaging operations.
Thanks Scott.
Comparable third quarter operating results in the metal beverage Americas and Asia segment were 18% above last year's level and through 9 months are up 6%.
Third quarter Brazil performance was much improved from last year's level due largely to the contribution from or our new Alagoinhas plants which came online in the second quarter and strong year-over-year volume gains.
In Asia our new can plant in Vietnam is coming up to speed and our plant in Qingdao China ran very well in the third quarter.
Asia operating results are still well ahead of last year's level through the quarter and through the first 9 months.
Sales volumes in North America were relatively flat through the first 9 months compared to a year ago.
We continue to focus on controlling costs and we were seeing a more favorable sales mix in that business which has resulted in higher comparable segment operating earnings in the quarter and year-to-date.
European third quarter operating results on a euro basis were up 8% however on a U.S.-dollar basis were lower due to a weaker euro exchange rate.
Year-over-year third quarter volume gains were somewhat offset by continuing price cost squeeze  in that beverage can business.
Third quarter earnings in the U.S.
metal food and household products segment were less than expected due to Midwest drought but slightly improved over last year.
Year-to-date earnings in this business were below last year due to inventory gains made in 2011 that were not realized this year.
With that said we expect fourth quarter segment earnings to be noticeably higher in the fourth quarter of 2011 when we took a significant amount of manufacturing downtime for inventory control.
So far 2002 (sic) [2012]  has been a successful but tough year with customer volume shifts in 12-ounce growing specialty can demand challenging growing conditions for our food can customers and 3 new plants coming online.
I'm proud of our people who have effectively managed through these challenges and opportunities and expect a good finish to the year.
With that I'll turn it back to you John.
Great.
Thank you Ray.
Our aerospace business continued to perform well with solid execution on existing programs and strong new wins that set us up well for the future.
Previously awarded fixed-price programs continue to ramp up and as you can see from our better-than-expected segment earnings program performance is quite good.
Margins for the quarter remained in the double digits.
And as I mentioned earlier contracted backlog ended the quarter at $1.1 billion.
While uncertainty remains around the U.S.
government plans and sequestration Ball's strong track record should keep us well positioned no matter the outcome of this important issue.
In summary after a very good 9-month performance which was slightly above our expectations we remain on track to achieve our goal of 10% to 15% diluted earnings per share growth for 2012.
While it's a bit premature to discuss our 2013 outlook we are proactively focusing on cost optimization and growth opportunities that will drive future performance and continued strong free cash flow.
We are on track to fill the gap in 2013 related to North American volume shift.
Further emerging market growth mix shifts to more specialty containers more normalized weather in North America and Europe and continued growth in aerospace all should serve as catalysts for good performance next year and beyond.
We will continue our long-standing disciplined capital deployment strategy to return value to our shareholders manage existing operations to match market demand and grow the EVA dollars we generate over the near and long term.
And with that Amit we're ready for questions.
Amit if you would we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of George Staphos from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I'll ask 3 questions and turn it over.
First of all Ray could you give us a breakdown in the third quarter of what volumes were on a year-on-year basis? I think I saw in the press release and in your -- heard in your remarks more of a year-to-date comment.
So could you run that by us in terms of a year-on-year for the third quarter volume progression? You want that? Yes I -- the -- in the North America/Asia segment -- our North America business was up just slightly and in China and Brazil they were up -- they were both up in the 20% range.
In Europe we had a strong volume quarter.
We had volumes up almost 10% in Europe.
And of course they were down in food and household.
Research Division</strong> Did you have a food and household number? Yes.
Remember we've got an aerosol in the food business.
So the aerosol was down about 4% and food was down about 7%.
Research Division</strong> Next question can you -- I think John mentioned that you're making progress to filling some of the volume that you had seen  shift this year for '13.
If possible could you provide a bit more color in terms of that process? And are you worried at all about perhaps some of the negative publicity around energy drinks recently what that might mean in terms of your efforts and your customer's demand? Yes George.
With respect to your first question the -- with the closure of our Columbus facility and taking out effectively 4 lines of  which 2 2.5 were being utilized this year we're going to be pretty tight next year overall.
Yes.
George I would tell you that I think next year we look like we might have a half line open which is fundamentally full.
Yes.
Exactly.
And so we feel pretty good about the necessary decisions we had to make there.
Obviously it's dependent upon what happens in the marketplace but we're assuming a relatively flat market for 2013.
And then with respect to your question about energy no we're not overly concerned.
It's not a big part of our portfolio.
It's certainly less than 5%.
And if we had to we could move that over into the beer segment relatively quickly because we have been running very strong on the specialty side of our house.
And we continue to expect to have strong growth in that segment as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last one on aerospace the backlog nice pick up.
Is there any way that you can comment realizing a lot of these programs are in the black in terms of where the backlog improvement was? Yes.
What I would tell you George is most of that backlog is as you described in the black.
And so we really can't comment on it.
But we have some -- there's certainly some good wins there that we feel good about.
And our next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Matt Wooten sitting in for Ghansham today.
With many in the industry adding specialty can capacity in North America can you quantify the current pace of volume growth? And do have any concern about the specialty can capacity in the near term? And if not how about over the next 2 to 3 years? Well our specialty growth has been quite strong over the past couple of years.
I think I mentioned on the second quarter year-to-date it was up mid-20% and we continue that pace right now.
So I think it's very strong.
It's masking obviously the decline in 12-ounce.
And what we're seeing from our customers not only North America but around the world increased emphasis and interest on specialty sizes everything from a 5.5-ounce all the way up to the jumbo can.
In terms of new capacity coming on there's a lot of growth that's occurring in it.
We constantly monitor that.
And obviously we're not going to be doing anything that we don't have business contracted for like we always do.
So no as we sit here today we're not overly concerned about it because it's a good news story with respect to the growth.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the color.
And then as a follow on and back to the aerospace business for a second recognizing that backlog was really high have you seen any signs or any negative implications of a pending fiscal cliff in the U.S.? Well the short answer is no because we've been given no guidance by the -- our customers on this because I don't think they know what's going on.
The one thing that I can tell you is many of these new projects and somewhat most of our existing projects are of a strategic nature.
And so we think at least in the short term they are reasonably well inoculated from any issues.
Certainly we have some product lines that are more tactical in nature that could have some impact but it's a very small part of our portfolio.
So as we sit here today we don't expect any meaningful dislocation relative to our business wins there.
But obviously time will tell.
If it goes late into 2013 I think all cards are on the table.
But as we sit here for the next call it 6 months or so we feel pretty good.
And our next question comes from the line of Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I know it's still pretty early in the process but how should we be thinking about pricing in 2013? I'm particularly interested in any color around Europe and China.
I mean demand/supply  seems to be firming up in Europe but a little more challenging in China.
Yes I think you're right.
China fundamentally we're sitting with a -- the industry is sitting with probably 25% excess capacity.
That excess capacity is being eaten up pretty quickly by obviously the growth in the market.
I would say that the next 18 to 24 months we should see that excess capacity eaten up.
But in China the pricing is difficult.
What's helping us in China obviously is the volume growth.
So I would say from a perspective pricing is difficult but volume is making up for the difference.
In Europe again there is a little bit of excess capacity in certain spots.
It's probably more in the east than the west.
And pricing has been difficult but we are seeing signs of that starting to firm up a little bit.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you give us a sense of what your outlook is for growth in China? Because there is -- I mean at least Alcoa lowered their guidance pretty sharply.
I just want to get your view.
Yes.
We actually even had a board meeting this past week in China.
And the fundamentals I think still remain quite strong.
Ray talked about the overcapacity but there's a tremendous amount of can filling investment going in.
And despite some of the slowdown on a GDP basis in China the rise of the middle class is still continuing.
This migration from the rural areas to the urban areas that we've discussed in the past is continuing on.
Ray had mentioned earlier that our volume was quite strong and I think the overall industry volume was good largely because the can has a share the package mix is small.
And so I think -- certainly there is -- like in any market that's growing so strongly you're going to have hiccups here and there.
But we think long term the China market is still going to be pretty healthy.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last final question for me.
Historically speaking you guys have allocated capital pretty evenly between CapEx M&amp;A and just returning cash to shareholders.
2012 was more of a robust year in terms of growth with Brazil and China.
You guys have done an incredible job of buying back stock.
How should we be thinking about the split for 2013? It's pretty early right now.
But our balance sheet is in great shape we don't have much in the way of current maturity.
So we won't be paying down debt other than current -- what comes due.
And growth CapEx is dependent upon the opportunities that present themselves.
And absent that we'll use most of the free cash flow to buy back our stock.
The third leg of that is the whole M&amp;A side and that's kind of like growth capital.
It's opportunity-driven.
And if we see good opportunities which from time to time we do -- witness the Envases transaction -- we'll utilize that.
But you never -- we never go into any given year planning on spending x percent or x amount of dollars on M&amp;A.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> From your vantage point I guess between -- the split between growth on the emerging market side versus M&amp;A would the bias be more towards M&amp;A this year? I mean for 2013? We just -- our bias is returning capital in the most prudent way and creating value in the most prudent way for our shareholders.
And so our M&amp;A activities as well as our external growth opportunities are opportunity-specific.
And so absent anything that we're going to buy back -- continue to buy back our stock and return  that capital to  our shareholders.
And our next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon from Vertical Res.
Could you talk a little bit about -- it seems like from what we've been hearing and -- from some of the beverage companies that the beer business in Europe has been a bit stronger than what you would think reading the headlines.
And what do you ascribe that to? And is it mostly affecting the can business more than bottles? Or how would you view the beneficiary of that? Well I don't know if the beer business in Europe or at large is all that strong.
I certainly know that the overall beer can market in Europe in the third quarter was relatively flat.
Now a lot of that had to do with poor weather in Western Europe and the U.K.
And I know the can has not been losing share in the beer market.
So I think perhaps maybe better than expectations but it's certainly not blowing the lights out.
Got you.
It just looked like -- I asked that because SABMiller talked about having very strong volumes over there.
But maybe it's just that one company.
Yes.
Yes.
And then as a follow-up and you might have addressed this but given that one of your competitors has postponed some of their capital spending or projects in China and Brazil do you think the longer-term outlook there isn't as strong as maybe you thought earlier? Or do you think it's more just tied to the economy? And I'm really thinking about China because I know you all pointed out a year ago how low the beer penetration is in cans versus other substrates when you look at China versus other parts of the world.
Yes.
No I --  we still think long-term the fundamentals are very strong.
For example the beer market in China year-to-date is up 6.5% irrespective of package type.
And so obviously that's a good news story.
I think really why some of these projects are sliding to the right even for ourselves has much to do with supply and demand and -- more than anything else.
But as Ray pointed out with the growth we're seeing in China that could be sopped  up relatively quickly.
And so you just got to -- we're keeping our eye on that and being close to our customers.
And our next question comes from the line of Chris Manuel from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
First could you give us a little more color on the couple of acquisitions that you announced? The facility in Italy how big is it a couple of lines et cetera what you expect there and is it full or capacity opportunity there number one? And a little more color potentially on what you hope to do with the aerosol assets? Well first with respect to the small Italian acquisition that was as I said the beverage can portion of it.
They had a very old small outdated line that we're going to be taking out of their facility and moving those volumes into existing Ball facilities.
And that will free up that existing line for deployment in other parts of the world as we continue to explore other geographies.
With respect to Envases del Plata we've talked over the last 18 months or so about our strategic thrust on the aluminum impact extruded side.
We acquired Aerocan about 18 months ago and this is just the logical next step.
We're taking -- acquiring in its entirety their Mexican plant.
And then we're joint venturing.
We have at tinplate business down in Argentina.
They obviously have an aluminum impact extruded.
We share similar customers so we're forming a joint venture there with options in the future to either acquire it or dispose it back to the seller.
We're in the midst of our due diligence now finalizing that and we're subject to regulatory approval.
And that's a little bit unknown right now but we expect as we sit here today for these things to most likely close in the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
The last 2 quick ones I had were as you look globally at capacity with volumes up so strong in Europe and then you talked about some of the elements here with Italy it sounds like that's going to be folded into existing and can somewhat close.
Do you -- I think you've -- are towards the end of your plant openings that you've announced globally with elements in Vietnam and China et cetera.
Do you envision any areas of the world where you might need further capacity as you look out the next year or two? Brazil.
We -- that new plant we just built -- we have a good customer that is just down the road.
And we've just found out lately we have another  one of our good customer is also building a brewery down the road.
So I think we're going to need more capacity in Brazil.
And that's the immediate capacity that I see.
John? Yes.
And probably over the next year or two we've talked about this before but we're getting recently [ph] tight in Europe.
We've had some pricing issues and I think our #1 focus and priority is getting those pricing issues right before we focus on any incremental capacity.
And so -- I think we talked about that either in the first or second quarter conference call.
And so that's what -- our plan right now.
But go to the longer term if Europe at large continues to grow as it is we are going to need some capacity.
We just want to focus on getting our business right there first.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then the last one is as you kind of [indiscernible] and went through some of the puts and takes as you think about 2013 and then  you've got a couple of these acquisitions to add you still have some flow-through from plants you've brought online as they come up the learning curve.
You've got some headwinds here in North America with business moving around although you've done good work to fill those in.
As you think about all these and put them together does 2013 in your mind seem to shake out as though you can still kind of fit within your long-term earnings growth objective? It's premature to say that right now because obviously we're in the midst of our planning process.
But what I'd tell you is largely because of the North American volume shift we -- our guys have done a great job of clawing back to profitability in that business.
But it took away some of the upside in it.
So as we sit here right now -- it probably would be difficult to certainly get to the upper end of that range but we're certainly focused on trying to achieve that lower end of the range yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Josephson from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> What volume trends did you experience in Europe intra-quarter? And what regional differences existed if any? Well as I said we had a very strong volume quarter in the third quarter in our European beverage can.
And that's mainly because -- if you remember last year summer didn't show up in Europe.
So the last year's third quarter was dreadful.
So that's why I think probably everybody was up fairly substantial in the third quarter.
Year-to-date we're up about 5% with the market growing about 3%.
And for us our business is primarily concentrated in Western Europe.
Of course we do have operations in Eastern Europe.
And Western Europe was a little bit stronger-growing than East Europe.
John do you have anything to add? The only outlier to what Ray just said was the U.K.
where the weather was atrocious throughout the second and third quarter.
And I think overall volumes from an industry and for ourselves were down in the U.K.
But outside of that Ray is spot on.
Research Division</strong> And just one for Scott.
Scott by roughly how much have your CapEx expectations come down for this year? Well as we've moved through the year things have kind of slid to the right a little bit.
That's why I've said for -- the most we've spent in a quarter -- we spent a little over $200 million through 9 months.
And the most we've spent in a quarter historically is about $140 million.
That's why I think we're going to trend lower than the $350 million.
How much lower depends on how much -- how many things get closed out by the end of the year versus sliding to the right a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But you would -- I would expect in the future you'd still be spending in excess of the $200 million of maintenance CapEx? Yes.
We're still seeing growth opportunities.
We're seeing selective places where we still want to deploy capital and where we can get the returns.
So we're going to continue to do that.
And our next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on the 2013 just referencing some commentary from the last quarter call about Americas/Asia.
You've been talking a couple of times on this call about the gap that you have to fill for the capacity closure.
Is it fair to say that -- with the commentary hopefully better than flattish I think was the comment made last quarter for what next year's EBIT could look like in this segment.
Is that a fair characterization that it would be kind of somewhere between flattish and what you're seeing this year kind of in the low-single digits? Or how are you thinking about that? Is there a risk that it's actually down next year that you actually -- you have something else to make up for? Yes.
I think it was me that made that comment.
And what I would tell you is that we've been very fortunate in the U.S.
We've filled up -- we pretty much filled up the open capacity that we had.
I said I think we have about a half line open in all of our system in the U.S.
for '13 and that's pretty much full.
And we expect  -- Brazil is still growing for us and we're expecting another very strong year in Brazil.
And while price is very difficult in China volume is very good.
So as we sit here today I would tell you I expect it to be up a little bit from where it is this year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then just on China just out of curiosity I mean there's -- it's a more fragmented market than the other markets.
So with some of the slowing growth and the excess capacity there would you think that there's a possibility that this market kind of consolidates sooner than we might have otherwise thought maybe 6 to 12 months ago? I think that's a fair comment.
And I think there's a reasonable shot at something like that.
You just think about what we've done and then what we read about what our competitors have done in terms of things sliding to the right.
I think there is a general recognition that there is overcapacity.
And typically when the industries have overcapacity there's consolidation.
So obviously we keep our eyes open to those types of things all the time.
And if it makes sense we'd certainly look at it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on kind of Asia in general.
One of your peers has pretty significant exposure in Asia x China.
You kind of made the move in Vietnam.
How are you thinking about perhaps other markets throughout Asia at this stage? Is this -- would this be a goal over the next couple of years? Or just how are you thinking about that? Yes I think it's certainly an objective.
You all know that through a joint venture we've had an interest in Thailand for a long time and with that same partner we've moved into Vietnam.
And I think there's other opportunities if they make sense that we'd certainly look at them with our partners like that.
So it's a been a good partnership.
There's good growth throughout Southeast Asia from a volume perspective.
And if we can make the economics work we'd certainly take a look at it.
Our next question comes from the line of Debbie Jones from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if we could go back to Brazil the comments you made about the new capacity coming on.
I'm wondering if we should expect an even bigger volume bump in the next quarter as you continue to ramp up.
It was my impression that when you did -- I think it was Tres Lagos [ph]? Please correct me if I'm wrong -- 2011 that that ramp up went pretty quickly? And then I guess my follow-up on that would be do you see the need to add more capacity in that region over the next few years? Are you happy with your current footprint or where you would actually just add another line at one of these facilities? Or would you expect that you need to move out of that area? Well for us -- remember Brazil this year started off very very slowly.
We had a very very slow first quarter in Brazil.
And the second quarter was better but it was still very very slow.
And then they were going to have a tax on beverages and they've moved that back.
And in the third quarter it's really taken off for us and we're expecting a very strong fourth quarter as well.
As I said before at least initially we're not -- we're going to fill out plants as opposed to building another plant.
We've only got one line in that new Alagoinhas plant we built and there's certainly room for some more capacity to be added in there and that's what I would expect to happen in the next very short period.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just kind of moving out of region we haven't discussed -- I've seen a lot of announcements of capacity coming on in South Africa and I believe some of the major players provide either technology or ends to that market.
And I'm just wondering if that will ever become a market that you guys might be willing to move into? Well the short answer is we take a look at markets like that all the time.
It's a market where the can demand has not been growing and they're having some economic difficulties down there.
So I wouldn't expect anything in the very short term for us to be doing anything.
But we do from time to time look at opportunities like that.
And if we can make economic sense as I said before we would certainly proceed on  -- with those.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could just ask one more question on China.
We've asked a lot about the need for more consolidation in that market and my characterization has always been that the existing players would probably want a little bit more than what you or some of your peers would be willing to pay.
And I'm just wondering what kind of the strategy would be if there are not some smaller maybe self-manufacturers or single-plant players that you guys think you might be able to consolidate over the next year or so.
That would be helpful.
Well I think as I said before generally speaking when there is overcapacity in markets you see consolidation.
And usually what happens is the big -- the strong remain strong and the weak ones are the ones that are consolidated.
So it falls directly in line with what you were just saying.
And if it works for us from an economic point of view from a geographic footprint point of view and from a customer portfolio point of view we'd certainly look at it.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of Al Kabili from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just first question is on free cash flow.
And certainly the working capital improvement this year is impressive.
I was just wondering what you think of the opportunity next year along those lines? Is the free cash flow next year sustainable relative to this year? You have CapEx down but working cap might be hard to repeat.
I just wanted to get some thoughts around that.
We've had a number of good programs that are benefiting us this year on the working capital front.
We have some things that are yet to come that will happen next year.
So I -- while it's too early to call what working capital will look like next year I'm still fairly positive on how that will develop next year.
So I don't think it's -- I don't think we're going to have to give anything back that we got this year necessarily.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
All right.
And then also related on -- just a quick housekeeping question on corporate costs.
What should we be thinking about going forward? I know the second quarter was a little bit lower than I was expecting at least -- or the third quarter I'm sorry.
Yes they ran a little -- full year is going to run closer to $65 million because of the benefit that we got in the third quarter.
On a full -- in a typical year it should run a little bit higher than that.
We had some unusual benefits in the third quarter that won't repeat themselves in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Got it.
All right.
Last question is just on -- is on the rationalizations in North American beverage.
Is there a way to help us think about what the fixed cost reduction is associated with those? Or -- we know you're going to -- there's some volume loss there.
Kind of help us with  maybe what some of the offsetting is on the footprint side.
Well if you recall in the past when we've closed facilities we said the fixed cost savings was -- depending on facility was in the range of $25 million or so.
The Columbus plant was a little bit bigger than a typical plant and we closed an end facility as well.
So you should expect the fixed cost savings to be north of that.
That's one of the reasons why both Ray and I said that we feel reasonably comfortable that we'll be able to claw back most if not all of the shortfall relative to volume loss.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Question is just around the share repurchase.
I think you said now that you're going to do about -- at least $500 million of share repo in 2012 if I look on the second quarter call I think you were at $275 million year-to-date.
It looks like at the end of the 3 quarter you bought back about $300 million of shares.
How should we think about the timing of that? How do you sort of look at that and decide when is the best time to do share repo or -- how do you think about that as we move into the balance of the year? Well -- I mean obviously we try to be opportunistic if we can.
But to buy $200 million in the last quarter you've got to be buying it everyday.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
So you're actively in the market.
I mean is there a period -- a window when you have to -- when you're no longer allowed to buy near the end of the year? Or you can buy all the way through the year? You could put a variety of programs in place to be able to buy through blackout periods.
That's usually not problematic.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Looking at the North American slugs business right you've got significant market share there.
You did an aerosol acquisition.
What do you think about overall vertical integration of that business longer term? Do you think there's a -- do you have a target rate for vertical integration or do you -- pretty comfortable with where you stand currently? I think we're pretty comfortable with where we stand currently.
We got in the business because as we started to explore the aluminum impact extruded we realized the importance of having good quality slugs to make good quality containers and that was the business premise behind getting in that.
And so that hasn't changed at all.
And so it is a good source of quality slugs for us.
And then we don't have to point fingers at our suppliers.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
And then just lastly I think somebody earlier talked about the negative publicity around energy drinks and the impact on your business.
But I sort of look at it from a different angle.
Is that -- maybe this is an opportunity for you.
We've heard a lot about reclosable and resealable options for cans.
It doesn't seem to have been adopted very much whether -- at least in North America.
Do you think this is maybe an opportunity for you to advance some of the reclosable and resealable innovation that you have? Well it very well could be.
Whether you want to talk about the Alumi-Tek bottle you want to talk about the resealable end that we produced in Europe -- but actually we do sell it here in North America.
I do think whether it's energy drink or whether it's anything that is looking at portion control there are opportunities there.
And our business development folks are actively pursuing those.
Our next question comes from the line of Alton Stump from Longbow Research.
I just wanted to get back to European bev cans.
Obviously this has already been asked but I was shocked at how good that number was.
I get the fact that the comp was easy.
But just with how poor weather was particularly in northern Europe in the quarter is there any certain thing or are you able to identify as to how much lift you think you got  -- obviously from either the Olympics or maybe a tail end of the Cup games if that helps at all either -- if there's something else going on there that drove that huge 10% growth number? I think the biggest thing actually when you take a look at it from a volume perspective was the Benelux region was quite strong.
And what's in the Benelux region is largely multinational beer companies that export out of that area into other geographies.
And I think we're the -- a beneficiary of that.
So if we had to isolate it to one thing that was probably the biggest surprise relative to our own internal expectations.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question is a follow-up question comes from the line of Chris Manuel from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A quick follow-up this is actually Gabe.
In China is there -- are there any sort of anti-competitive issues that would preclude you from making a purchase in any particular region within China given that it's obviously a large country? I think that that's such a general question it's too difficult to answer.
Obviously we would have to be mindful that if we were to acquire something that was adjacent or very close to one of our facilities in the absence of other competitors in the region obviously that would be a challenge.
But I think there's enough competitors out there that we could probably weave our way through.
There are no further questions from the phone lines at this time Mr.
Hayes.
I will now turn the call back to you.
Okay great.
Well thanks Amit and thank you everyone.
I just want to remind everyone that our January earnings call will take place on Thursday January 31 2013.
So we look forward to having a strong finish to the year and we'll talk to you then.
Thanks everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Ball Corporation Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday January 31 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Hayes President and Chief Executive Officer.
You may begin sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you France.
This is Ball Corporation's conference call regarding the company's fourth quarter and full year 2012 results.
The information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Factors that could cause results or outcomes to differ are in the company's latest 10-Q and in other company SEC filings as well as company news releases.
If you do not already have our earnings release it is available on our website at ball.com.
Information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
Joining me on the call today is Scott Morrison Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
You will recall that in November the company announced Ray Seabrook our Chief Operating Officer of Global Packaging would retire at the end of 2012.
Ray had a very long and very successful career at Ball and we wish him all the best going forward.
I'll provide a brief overview of our company's performance and then Scott will discuss financial and Global Packaging metrics.
We'll finish up with comments on our aerospace business and the outlook for 2013.
Ball reported very good 2012 results in a challenging economic environment.
This performance is a tribute to our employees and their dedication to controlling our own future and embracing our Drive for 10 vision.
Drive for 10 progress in 2012 included: Maximizing value on our North American packaging the beverage container business by increasing our manufacturing flexibility through the expansion of specialty can production and reduction of standard 12-ounce capacity; broadening our geographic reach and growing with the right customers in markets in Brazil by installing a second line capable of making multiple sizes in our new Alagoinhas facility.
The line will service multiple customers under long-term contracts and will be operational in the second half of 2013.
We also completed the startup of our new facilities in Qingdao China and Ho Chi Minh City Vietnam.
We completed our new aerospace clean room facility expansion in Colorado which leverages our technology expertise and will help service more than $1 billion of contracted backlog.
And we completed the acquisition in mid-December of an extruded aluminum manufacturing facility in Mexico which broadens our geographic reach and brings new capabilities to our global metal food and household segment.
2012 was a busy yet rewarding year.
Our disciplined market leadership focus on profitable growth and system upgrades in our existing businesses has strengthened Ball for the long term.
Yesterday in recognition of the company's strong performance our Board of Directors approved a 30% increase in the dividend.
That action is aligned with our focus of returning value to our shareholders.
We do face some headwinds going into 2013 like we do in most years but at this time I'm comfortable that we have the right mix of experience and conviction to ensure another successful year going forward.
Before I talk about aerospace and what we see going into 2013 I'll turn it over to Scott for a review of our 2012 numbers.
Scott? Thanks John.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for 2012 were $3.06 versus last year's $2.73 an increase of 12%.
And in the fourth quarter comparable diluted earnings per share were $0.64 versus last year's $0.48 a 33% increase.
Also in the quarter the company recorded after-tax charges totaling approximately $38 million related mainly to the previously announced closeout of a Canadian pension plan and costs associated with plant closures and a voluntary separation program tied to optimal staffing in our North American businesses and shared services.
For the full year the following factors contributed to improved results: Global metal beverage packaging volume growth of 3%; higher comparable operating earnings; solid program performance in our aerospace business; lower corporate undistributed costs and a lower share count.
FX translation negatively impacted full year 2012 earnings per share by $0.09 and in the fourth quarter by $0.01.
Turning to free cash flow Ball generated $548 million in 2012.
Again we returned every free cash flow dollar to shareholders via a net share buyback program of $494 million and dividends of $62 million.
Net balance sheet debt at the end of the year was approximately $3.1 billion only $153 million increase over 2011 despite our acquisitions in Mexico and  [indiscernible] and acquiring nearly $500 million of stock.
Credit quality and liquidity of the company remain solid with the 2012 comparable EBIT-to-interest coverage at 5x and net debt to comparable EBITDA at 2.7x.
Committed credit and available liquidity at the end of the year was in excess of $1 billion.
For a complete summary of the fourth quarter results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis please refer to the Notes section of today's earnings release.
Recapping segment performance.
Metal beverage Americas and Asia segment comparable earnings were up both in the quarter and full year due to slightly better volumes in North America for both the quarter and full year as well as mix shifting to specialty cans.
Our specialty cans volume grew nearly 25% in 2012.
Volumes in Brazil were up over 30% in the quarter and 20% in 2012.
China volumes were down mid-single digits in the quarter on difficult comps and up 11% for the year.
European segment profit declined both in the quarter and full year due mainly to unfavorable foreign exchange translation.
Beverage can volumes in the quarter were down low-single digits and full year volumes up mid-single digits.
Extruded aluminum aerosol volumes grew over 10% in the quarter and full year.
In food and household segment earnings were up nicely in the quarter and almost flat on a full year basis.
Segment volumes were down approximately 2% in the quarter and nearly 7% for the full year.
Truly excellent performance given 2012's difficult harvest and lack of inventory holding gains last year.
Finally a few financial metrics and housekeeping items for 2013.
Full year interest expense retirement benefit costs and the effective tax rate on comparable earnings will be roughly flat with 2012.
Given $100-million-plus of carry-in capital full year 2013 CapEx is expected to be in the range of $400 million.
Therefore we expect 2013 free cash flow to be in the range of $450 million.
We will continue to return the majority of our free cash flow to shareholders via share repurchases and dividends versus debt paydown in 2013.
Effective in 2013 Ball will close its quarters on a calendar month basis.
This means the first quarter of 2013 will have 2 fewer days and as we alluded to in our management succession release in November the global metal food and household segment will also include the results of our European extruded aluminum packaging business as well as the recently acquired facility in Mexico.
With that I'll turn it back to you John.
Thanks Scott.
Our aerospace business continued to perform well with solid execution on existing programs and contracted backlog still above $1 billion.
Being cost competitive has allowed Ball to win our fair share of government aerospace and defense projects.
Despite the ongoing lingering ambiguity about the U.S.
government's finances and the threat of defense cuts we remain bullish on this segment.
As we transition to 2013 and looking out across the operations today keeping in mind it is only January a few observations to share.
First we expect the Americas Asia segment earnings to be relatively flat in 2013.
Due to the overcapacity situation that exists in China we face pricing pressures there.
And as you know the loss of 12-ounce business in North America creates a trough from which to build.
However current specialty can demand trends in Brazil and North America have warranted additional capital investments and provide good growth opportunities in 2013 and beyond.
In Europe given lackluster economic conditions we do not anticipate any near-term capital investments for beverage can's expansion.
Instead we have a strong focus on cost optimization initiatives across the region.
Our global food and household product segment is busy integrating our new plant in Mexico investing capital to meet the increased demand for aluminum aerosol containers.
And we anticipate a more normal seasonal vegetable harvest here in the United States.
In our aerospace business while uncertainty still remains around the U.S.
government plans on sequestration Ball's strong track record should keep us well positioned for the long term although depending on the outcome of sequestration it could be a bit more lumpy than usual.
All across Ball we have a management team that understands how to generate incremental EVA dollars.
Our company's cash flow is strong and we are actively managing our businesses to align assets and cost structures to respond to dynamic market -- global markets.
All in all 2013 will be a year where we have many levers to improve our financial results and more importantly sets us up even better for 2014 and beyond.
We have our hands on what we need to do to execute upon and barring further deterioration in global markets or economic conditions we continue to strive to reach our long-term 10% to 15% diluted earnings per share growth goal.
And with that France we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question from the line of Anthony Pettinari from Citibank.
Research Division</strong> You referenced the pricing pressure in Asia and I'm just wondering is that -- did that pressure accelerate over the 3 months of the quarter? And then as we've moved into January have you seen it -- have you seen that pressure abate or how is the beginning of the year? Well as we said I think on the third quarter that we anticipated pricing pressures in China and that's exactly what's happened.
The negotiation season was the fourth quarter and we did see pricing pressure there.
Most of those negotiations are over now and so as we go into '13 it's about execution.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a couple of years ago I think you disclosed that your market share in China was 31%.
And I'm wondering given that you've been a little bit more disciplined regarding capacity than some of your competitors and maybe have walked away from some business has your market share meaningfully changed from that 31%? Or can you provide any kind of quantification around that? Well I'll tell you in 2012 we grew roughly in line with what the market grew.
So our market share was relatively the same.
We have delayed capital and have chosen not to add any significant capital in China going into '13 so we see our volume growth in '13 to be at or slightly below what the market is doing so we could lose a little bit of market share.
But what we're trying to do is make sure our business is as healthy as possible from a pricing perspective.
Our next question from the line of George Staphos Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back to the Americas Asia beverage can segment.
As you look out to '13 now versus where you were say 3 months ago has anything changed markedly? Would it be pricing in China or is the aggregate of profit performance and the complexion that drives that more or less as you anticipated back in September -- or October? It really hasn't changed markedly George.
There's definitely some headwinds that we -- that John talked about the pricing pressure the loss of volume in North America.
But our guys have done a great job responding to those issues and growth in specialty capacity we're still seeing; growth in Brazil we're still seeing.
So it hasn't changed markedly.
Some of the levers may have changed a little bit but in general we're still with the same kind of outlook.
Research Division</strong> Scott considering that last quarter you were talking about how apparently anyway good the growth in specialty can demand and opportunities was for you.
And that seems like it's the case again this quarter.
If I more or less hold that constant maybe that's not the right assumption it seems like the -- if there has been anything that's changed it sounds like it's changed for the negative it would be again the pricing in China.
Would that be a fair statement? Yes I think that's a fair statement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now the -- in terms of guidance in terms of striving for the long-term goal of 10% to 15% does that suggest something more aspirational longer term? Or is that something you think is within your sights for 2013 remembering the company's old phrase you'd rather be heroes in December than in January? Yes.
Well I remember on the third quarter I said that the -- our long-term range is 10% to 15% and it's going to be quite challenging to get to the upper end of the range but we're going to strive to get to the lower end of the range.
And that's where we are right now.
It is only January.
Various things have to happen but as we sit here right now that we have some challenges on our hands but we think that we can push -- if we push and are successful in many initiatives we have we might be able to get to that 10% -- to the lower end of the 10% to 15% in earnings per share growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question I'll turn it over.
Can you provide a bit more color commentary on the consolidation activities that you have ongoing in metal packaging in the Americas? You obviously have some charges in the fourth quarter in beverage which have been well discussed and telegraphed but also in food you have some things going on.
Is that mostly the integration of Mexico? What else is in there? Yes on the beverage side everything is on schedule.
We closed the Columbus facility at the end of the year Gainesville will close in the first half of this year.
All of that's on track to what we expected.
On the food side that was the closeout of a Canadian pension plan so where we had annuitized it.
And we talked about that in the third quarter call.
And then we're really excited about the acquisition that we made down in Mexico and the opportunities there going forward in 2013.
Our next question from the line of Scott Gaffner with Buckingham Research (sic) [Barclays].
Research Division</strong> Still at Barclays.
On the Asia business can you just sort of parse that for us? I know you've got a large position in China but what are the other regions there? And what are you seeing as far as price pressure outside of China? Well the only other places we really operate outside of China is our joint venture in Vietnam and we have a small interest in Thailand.
I think generally speaking we are seeing some pricing pressures but it's not terrible.
But I -- if I commented on any other region I don't think it'd be fair because we don't sell into those regions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then are you seeing any bifurcation between alcoholic versus non-alcoholic cans? Is that anything that you're seeing in the market? And then also just the impact of the Chinese New Year how much is that impacting the -- both the fourth quarter and the first quarter? Yes I think your question is from a volume perspective and you're right the Chinese New Year is a bit later this year.
And so as we sit here towards the end of January we've seen some reasonably strong growth in the month of January in our business over in China.
And I think it has to do with the Chinese New Year.
It's been extremely cold in China and so I know beer has been soft.
I think the overall market was a bit soft in the fourth quarter.
But I think it's more weather-related.
If you followed the weather Northern China in particular was extremely cold and extremely snowy.
And so that had some impact in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on North American specialty can mix where do we end the year on mix of specialty as far as the total can mix in North America? And what's the outlook for 2013 as you bring more specialty cans into the mix? Yes I think our percent was in the 17% 18% range for 2012.
And as we look to 2013 we have some exciting things going on on our specialty business so we expect to see some continued growth in that.
Whether it's on the smaller sizes 7.5-ounce whether it's on the sleek which is a 12-ounce but a different shaped container or on some of the larger sizes we see good growth there.
And I think part of it has to do with new housing starts are beginning and that's good middle-class jobs that are the big consumers of those types of packages as well as unemployment in the 21- to 34-year-old range year-over-year went from over 9% to about 7.7% 7.8%.
So we've seen a pickup in the core beer consumer as well.
Our next question is from Ghansham Panjabi from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> It's Matt Wooten sitting in for Ghansham today.
I was hoping that -- on a longer term basis what do you anticipate as a sustainable number for growth CapEx? As I recall maintenance CapEx is about $200 million a year.
Yes that's a good number to use for maintenance CapEx.
Growth CapEx depends on the opportunities that are there.
We really look to deploy capital wherever we think we can make attractive returns and how fast that comes changes over time.
If you look back last year our capital spend declined throughout the year that's why we had so much pushed into 2013.
And so we're always adjusting our capital plans based on what the world looks like.
So it's hard to predict long term 3 4 years from now what that might look like because it really depends on global growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then from your customer base 2012 seemed like a year that was a little light in terms of promotional activity.
Have you received any indications that promotional activity will pick up in 2013 either from soda producers or beer producers? I think it's too early for them to have a strong view of what they're going to be doing in the summer of 2013.
That's probably better asked at the end of the first quarter just because it's January and they still have 4 to 6 months to when their big selling season really begins.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Manuel from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
First if we could talk a little bit about where you feel your utilization rates are in beverage.
If you were to kind of walk around the globe and talk about China Vietnam Brazil Europe North America et cetera I know you talked about maybe seeing a little bit of growth in some of those regions but you're not putting a lot of capacity in.
So just trying to get a sense of where your utilization rates are.
Yes you often hear us talk about trying to make sure that our supply matches our demand and that's exactly what we do.
In North America I think we even said this on the third quarter in 2013 we're real tight with the closure of the Columbus facility.
And so I think we're -- our utilization rates are are very high there.
In China they also are very high and that's the reason why I said in 2013 while the market's probably going to grow a little bit stronger than we are because where the pricing is we want to make sure the pricing is right relative to the cans that we sell.
And so we do have a little bit of line speedups here and there that's part of that carry-in capital Scott was mentioning.
But nothing significant and we're keeping a very close eye because there is a fair amount of overcapacity from an industry perspective but you don't see it in the Ball system.
Brazil obviously we're adding a new line there and so we're running full out there.
And then in Europe I said on the third quarter that longer term we would expect to look at some capacity there.
But in the short term we're focusing on costs and that's exactly where we are going into 2013.
The market grew mid-single digits in 2012.
We expect about the same in 2013.
That's going to make us very tight in Europe as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I guess my follow-up with this is you're going to be spending --  [indiscernible] the math question -- you're going to be spending about $200 million in return-oriented growth-oriented capital this year.
Can you maybe -- I know it's going to be a long list of projects but could you kind of bucket maybe a few categories or maybe by segments where a lot of that capital is going? Is most of it targeted to beverage? Is most of it targeted to speedups or is it aerosol capacity or other different pieces like that? Well it's where the growth is Chris.
It is specialty cans in North America and in Brazil -- John mentioned an additional line down in Brazil.
We're finishing up some things from last year some speedups that we were doing in different places.
We're seeing nice growth in aluminum aerosol.
We think there's opportunities with the Mexico acquisition to add capacity there.
So it's in a variety of places.
Yes the only thing I'd add on to that in North America we are adding specialty capability in some of our standout -- standard 12-ounce facilities and that's one of the reasons why that carry-in capital's large but most -- actually all that volume is contracted already.
And so it's good return projects.
Our next question is from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question just getting to the guidance around Americas Asia being flat for this year.
Could you give us a sense just between North America China Brazil how to think about that? I mean is it fair to say North America down China flat Brazil up? Or just give us a rough sense of how you're thinking about it.
We normally don't break that out but I think your intuition is generally correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the reason I'm driving at this question is it kind of comes back towards this long-term guidance goal of the 10% to 15%.
Clearly there's some transitional elements to 2013 related to the business lost in North America.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of hypothetically if we have 8% EPS growth this year.
There's a certain element to that that should come back just as we lap that.
I'm trying to just kind of calibrate how to think about that.
Maybe from a contextual perspective we can help create some sort of bridge here.
We talked about Americas and Asia being relatively flat.
Europe depending on what happens there there ought to be a little bit of upside in Europe.
But obviously with the economic conditions there it's premature to bank on that.
Our food and household products business ought to be up.
We had a very difficult 2012 and our folks performed very well there.
How much up is a question of what the harvest looks like.
And then we have the new Mexican facility the impact extruded business that contributes to that.
And the European impact extruded business we continue to do reasonably well there.
And then on the aerospace we don't expect much upside at all in that business particularly in light of the uncertainty around sequestration.
And then the corporate I don't -- Scott said it was going to be relatively flat.
So that provides coordinate income of up in the low single-digit range.
And through the use of our cash flow it gets up to the -- that's where we think we have a shot towards the lower end of our long-term goals.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay that's very helpful.
And then just on China I mean you did make the comment I believe Ray did on the last call that volume would be up and you'd be kind of clawing back to negative price in 2013.
So I mean do you think China specifically will grow earnings this year? Or how do you think about that? I think it's going to be challenging too.
As we said we've retarded any meaningful growth cap on that area and so we expect our volumes to be at or slightly below what the market's going to be doing.
And I think given the pricing challenges it is going to be a bit difficult.
Now having said that let's put this in context.
There's overcapacity of 20% to 25% in Asia.
It is growing in the mid-teens.
And so that's 18 maybe 24 months of excess capacity.
And so as we're looking into 2014 it's about getting our pricing in a position as we go into 2014 where we have a lot of operational leverage.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I guess the last question is just around the volume growth outlook for China.
I think at some point this year the growth rate had been slowing to something below mid-teens.
So could you give us a sense of where that reacceleration may be occurring what end markets specifically? Yes I do think it's across most of the end markets in China.
I think the slowdown was largely weather-related.
As I mentioned it was extremely cold.
But we have a pretty good handle on where can filling capacity is going in on the beer side on the CSD side on the tea side on the energy side.
And as a result of that we continue to see the overall market being -- growing in the double-digit range.
Our next question from the line of Philip Ng from Jefferies &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Europe at least actually on a bev can side actually grew at a mid-single-digit rate which is pretty healthy.
But your comments for 2013 sound like you're generally a little more cautious.
So you're expecting a little slower growth on the bev can side with tougher comps or just the macro? No not particularly.
I think you're parsing our words a little bit more than we intended.
We -- as we said we grew mid-single digits for the year in that.
Now remember it was an even-numbered year and so there are some special summer things going on in terms of European Cup the Olympics that we're not going to have in 2013.
But where we see the -- we still see low- to mid-single-digit growth in the European market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So from a pricing standpoint things were -- you've seen some erosion but sounds like the market's tightened up a bit.
So how should we be thinking about pricing in Europe for 2013? I don't think -- I think we've hit the trough.
We talked about price some of the price pressure but that's why we're focused on internally on things we can control on the cost side and not adding capacity until we get the price equation a little bit better.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you guys haven't settled out your contracts on pricing because I thought you guys typically settled out year end of 2012.
Yes we've largely settled out and what I would say is relative to 3 months ago when we were on the call the pricing environment is a touch more healthy in Europe than it was.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know it's early in the year but you guys were commenting on the pack you're expecting a more normalized pack.
What about demand for aerosol? Go ahead Scott.
Yes demand for aluminum aerosol is very strong.
For tinplate aerosol last year it was -- kind of bounced around.
The fourth [ph] quarter [ph] was very good.
But overall we feel pretty good about the aerosol business.
Yes I think long term the steel the tinplate aerosol business here in North America at least is probably 0% to 2% growth type of market GDP type growth and we don't expect any meaningful changes in that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the steel tinplate side anything to think about for 2013 with holding gains and all that stuff? No it should be relatively flat.
There's not much going around on either way.
Our next question is from the line of Adam Josephson from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Are there any regulatory developments that particularly concern you for instance the potential for minimum pricing in Britain the tax increase on beer in France or otherwise? We're always facing regulatory issues and not only in -- for Ball Corporation but I think business at large.
I think on a global scale regulation is only increasing not decreasing.
And so as we sit there the things that you mentioned those things don't concern us of anything in materiality -- from a materiality point of view.
And so I would say based on the things that you mentioned no.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just John the acquisition pipeline.
How would you compare it to what it's looked like in previous quarters? And what areas might you be looking at most closely? Yes I don't think it's all that different than over the past certainly past 6 12 months.
We continue to see opportunities in metal packaging whether it's on the aluminum impact extruded business the beverage can business.
Just think last year we did something in the beverage can business we did something in the aluminum impact extruded business as well.
And I think those types of things whether they're small or a bit larger are still out there and we keep our nose to the grindstone in making sure that we have a good understanding of what's going on and what well candidly we're willing to pay for some of those assets.
Our next question from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> First question has to do with the specialty can business which obviously is really carrying the day in terms of growth in North America.
And yet it seems like from just what I've heard that in Europe the specialty can business where it's been more of a presence for a longer period of time doesn't really share the same margin and growth spreads to standard cans like we see here.
And so I just want to know if that's what you all see.
And secondly do you see a time where the specialty segment here in North America might slow down or we might see some margin compression versus the 12-ounce? Yes I think in Europe you are right it's been around longer but we still had good growth in 2012.
I don't have the number off the top of my head but I know at the end of the third quarter it was around 8% or so.
So it's above the market growth and certainly not what we've seen in North America.
I do think that when you have line changeovers and other things that it adds a bit of complexity into the system.
And we need to get paid for that complexity.
And so I don't think that necessarily changes.
To your point North America around the slowdown of specialty growth yes it's obviously at some point in time the base gets bigger and the growth slows down.
But many of the fast-moving consumer goods companies whether it's on the beer side whether it's on the CSD side or even some other categories energy those types of things they're continuing to look for ways to add value into the products that they sell.
And they're finding good value in terms of the specialty cans that we produce and that's why we've been seeing the growth.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And then sort of as a follow-on sort of looking beyond the very near term in China -- that's sort of been discussed quite a bit already.
But if we go back to say 15 months ago when we were out in Colorado and we were talking about the long-term for Ball and for the business one thing that really struck -- jumped out was at least to me was how beer only about 5% is -- was at that time in cans in China whereas it was 38% in Brazil and I think over 50% here in North America.
And it would seem -- do you think that there is a if you will a slower adoption rate than you thought? Or do you think -- do you continue to see a reason why you wouldn't see the can in beer adopted in China in increasing measure like we've seen in all these other places? Yes nothing fundamentally has changed there.
It really gets into as new capacity is brought on are they putting bottle capacity or can capacity? And we see a fair amount of can capacity coming on.
Remember it's -- the China beer market is such a large market that I know even now as we sit here a year ago -- a year later it's up to 6% 6.5% which isn't a huge number percentage terms but in terms of volume that's where a lot of the growth is coming from.
And so will it ever get to the 50% that we see in North America? That's a stretch obviously.
But I do think based on the conversations we have with our customers and seeing where they're putting their capital that we expect to see over the long term a continued increase in the penetrations of cans into the beer market.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then lastly it's -- your CapEx number is a bit elevated for '13.
Where do you think that would trend in '14 and '15? Let's say if you do get the kind of year you're planning for right now and of course we know things can change.
But if it turns out to be net income up in the low single digits and EPS up close to 10% do you think that CapEx number would likely rise? Or I mean if -- still trail off or could it stay where it is or rise? Well we always think that it will get closer back towards depreciation because you don't have as good a visibility on some of the growth opportunities.
So it's really dependent on how fast those growth opportunities materialize and how many there are.
The world's slowing down and frankly if you asked us that same question last year we thought it would come down this year.
But we had so much carry-in capital that you really got to look at the 2 years in total versus just 1 year.
So over time we think it would come down a bit because when you're going through bigger growth spurts when we're building plants that takes a lot more capital.
When you could add new lines like we're doing in Alagoinhas the incremental capital isn't as much.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> The planned cost reductions that you have for North America from the capacity closures how do you see that flowing through the business through the year? Well we said the Columbus facility was closed at the end of the year and the Gainesville facility is going to continue to operate for a little bit into this -- into 2013.
So you'll start to get those benefits as we move later into the year.
Research Division</strong> And so some of the cost reduction is going to flow into '14? No the cost -- all this will be -- you're going to start seeing all the benefit here as we move into the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the pension did you guys update us on where the pension plan ended up and what you see your pension expense contribution to be for '13? Yes we ended up funding quite a bit more than expense in '12 about $60 million more than expense in '12 just because the cash flow was so strong.
In 2013 we think we'll fund about $20 million more in funding versus expense.
Our next question is a follow-up question from the line of George Staphos Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if -- peer in a little bit more to the extent possible on the Americas profitability and the progression you expect there.
If you consider the cost reductions that should help you this year and also the additional volume in specialty cans is there a way to ballpark how much that might help you this year relative to the ultimate volume loss that you suffered going into 2013? George you're getting to a level of granularity that I wish we could be as specific as possible.
But the reality is when you think about it let's take a step back.
For that segment going into 2013 we've closed the Columbus facility.
As Scott just said we expect to get the fixed cost benefits from that that offset a lot of the variable margin that we had from the lost business.
As we go into the second quarter and with the final closedown of Gainesville we'll start to reap all of that.
And then the second half the year we're going to have the second line in Alagoinhas come up.
And so when you think about all those things I think we're going to have -- as the year goes on we're going to have more momentum going into that segment all things being equal.
Research Division</strong> Is it possible that within North America if there's a way to parse that that your EBIT might actually be flat considering the incremental margin from specialty and the cost reductions which you said are more or less offsetting the variable margin on the volume loss? Or is that a heroic expectation at this juncture given where you sit? Well that's the trough that we're faced and in my prepared remarks that's why I said well it's a trough but we're clawing out of it.
And it's only January George.
So let's talk later in the year to see how specialty goes.
But we have a reasonable shot and that's what we said on the third quarter.
And as Scott said our outlook on that really hasn't changed materially.
Research Division</strong> Understand guys.
Just wanted to get a little bit more color -- or granularity as you said.
The last question I had is if we are having this conference call 3 years from now and we can project forward the aerosol business for Ball Corporation do you see it being as meaningful a business as -- or it's not going to ever be as large as your beverage can business but will we be talking with it -- about it in almost the same tone as a significant driver of your growth and future profitability? Is it that strategic to you and how do you see that evolving? Sorry for the broad question there but I think it's an interesting element to your story longer term.
Yes it's obviously from -- let's talk about from an overall market size perspective.
It is significantly smaller than the 270-odd-billion beverage cans around the world.
We're talking in the range of upper-single-digit billions of units.
So obviously it's not going to have that.
But the business model is quite different because the capital and output ratios are quite different than the beverage can business.
I would not expect 3 years from now to be talking it in the same size and tone of the beverage can business for Ball Corporation.
But I will tell you this we continue to have good growth opportunities.
Some of that carry-in capital Scott was mentioning is in the impact extruded business.
And so as that market continues to grow we're going to be focused on it.
Research Division</strong> Last one on this -- John do you see that business broadly offering different types of metal packages than what it's doing right now which is aluminum extruded aerosol cans? Are there opportunities to take that technology as it's used to some degree already in beverage into food applications and to other end markets? How would you have us consider that? Well I do think over the next several years George the greater opportunity is not so much in food but probably beverage.
Just think about what we've done with Alumi-Tek.
It's been a year [ph] in North America and it's been quite successful.
And we have a whole suite of bottles now ranging from a DWI bottle the Alumi-Tek all the way to the impact extruded and everything in between.
Impact extruded is more relevant when you have smaller runs and you have more differentiation you can shape it.
And the sizes of it you can make a bit different than you can on something like the Alumi-Tek.
But there are continued opportunities on the Alumi-Tek side as well.
So does that answer your question? Research Division</strong> Yes that was great.
I appreciate it.
Our next question is another follow-up from Chris Manuel from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to focus on the aerospace business if I could for a second.
As you look at the mix of business there and I know you've told us this or disclosed this in the past and I just don't remember the mix of business between let's call it department -- or DOD or different elements in there can you remind us of that? Yes more than 50% of it is in the DOD business.
And when you partial that out the preponderance of it are in the big I would call it strategic programs satellites and things like that.
And we do have a couple of other businesses in terms of the tactical products antennas and other things for everything from the Joint Strike Fighter to other applications like that.
And then we also have a services business that takes all that information and turns it into usable data.
But like I said 50% -- probably 50% 60% of our aerospace business is directly DOD.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as you think about full year 2013 versus 2012 and I appreciate there's some -- a little issue that might come up in midyear here that could impact things.
How would you anticipate '13 might look versus '12? I mean you had some -- it looked some pretty good payments come in in 4Q that may or may not repeat next year.
But could you maybe give us a sense of can it be a flat year for EBIT? Or do you think you could still have a little improvement? Or is it just too difficult to look at right now? It really is really difficult to look at right out just because with the potential for sequestration out there.
I will point out that at this time last year our backlog was -- upper 800s $890 million or so and we're well over $1 billion right now.
And so that just goes to show why we keep saying long term we feel pretty good about this business.
But as I said in my prepared remarks because of the sequestration it could be a bit more lumpy than we're used to.
But we just don't have visibility into that yet.
We have another follow-up question from the line of Phil Gresh from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just on the working capital front.
You guys have done a really solid job here for 2 years in a row and I'm just curious Scott how you're planning for that in that guidance for 2013 free cash flow.
Yes really all the guys have done a great job on the working capital front whether it's managing inventories better collecting receivables better extending payable terms.
It's been a really broad effort that a lot of people have been involved in and it's worked very well.
We think there's still a little more to go on the working capital front in '13.
We're still not where we think we need to be longer term so we think there's still a little bit more upside in that.
It should be a source in '13.
How big I don't know.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay okay.
And then just on the pension you said it's $20 million contribution in excess of the expense.
Is that just for the U.S.
plan or is that the total? Like what's the absolute dollar there? That's total that's total.
Mr.
Hayes we have no further questions at this time sir.
I'll be turning the call back to you.
Okay great.
Thank you all and thank you all for participating.
And we look forward to what will hopefully be a challenging but productive 2013.
And we'll talk to you all on the April call.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference call for today.
Have a great day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Ball Corporation First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday April 25 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
John Hayes President and COO with Ball Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Daisy and good morning everyone.
This is Ball Corporation's conference call regarding the company's first quarter 2013 results.
The information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Some factors that could cause results or outcomes to differ in the company's latest 10-K and in other company SEC filings as well as company news releases.
If you don't already have our earnings release it is available on our website at ball.com.
Information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
Joining me on this call today is Scott Morrison Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'll provide a brief overview of our company's performance.
Scott will discuss financial and global packaging metrics then I'll finish up with comments on our aerospace business and the outlook for the remainder of 2013.
We've made a lot of progress towards our longer-term objectives in the majority of our businesses including our ability to overcome the shortfall created from the previously announced 12-ounce customer shift in North America.
However disappointing results in our European beverage container segment overshadowed this good work and led to our first quarter results coming in below our expectations.
We will discuss this more when I talk about the outlook later in the prepared remarks but the overarching business fundamentals at Ball have not changed.
And while we have dug ourselves a hole in the first quarter we do expect the remainder of the year to be largely consistent with our expectations although the year is probably more back-end weighted as volumes in the second quarter are getting off to a slow start and our cost out plans in Europe will take time.
Other events in the quarter included we successfully integrated our recently acquired Mexican extruded aluminum aerosol business which brings a new growth platform and a new region for Ball.
We began installation of a second beverage can line capable of making multiple specialty can sizes in our new Alagoinhas Brazil facility.
Volumes for us in Brazil were up strong double digits for the quarter.
We're aggressively managing our manufacturing footprint by announcing that we will cease production at our Elgin Illinois steel aerosol packaging plant later this year as well as redeploying beverage and manufacturing equipment from our Gainesville facility to existing facilities in the U.S.
We are launching exciting new beverage can innovation resulting in a leading U.S.
craft brewer offering their beer in cans for the very first time.
And we continue to leverage Ball Aerospace's technology expertise by maintaining more than $1 billion of contracted backlog despite the ongoing effects of sequestration.
We are encouraged by the operating performance across the vast majority of our businesses.
And as you can see we have cost issues in Europe.
The consolidation of the Ratingen and Bonn locations is the first step of many activities over the balance of the year to ensure we're as cost competitive as we can be.
And with that I'll turn it over to Scott for a review our first quarter numbers.
Thanks John.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in the first quarter were $0.58 versus last year's $0.63 an 8% decrease.
Also in the quarter the company recorded after-tax charges totaling approximately $16 million related mainly to costs associated with plant closures and the European headquarters relocation to Switzerland.
Our metal beverage Americas and Asia segment comparable earnings were roughly flat year-over-year due to shifting mix to specialty cans and excellent cost control at the plant level offsetting double-digit declines in 12-ounce can demand in North America.
Brazil volumes were up 40-plus percent in the quarter.
China volumes were up mid-teens but pricing in the region remains difficult.
European segment profit declined $0.06 in the quarter due to weaker volumes brought about by challenging economic and weather conditions in Northern and Western Europe higher costs related to our regional headquarters move and higher input costs.
In food and household year-over-year segment earnings declined slightly due to higher cost inventory carried into the year and segment volumes declined 5% in the seasonally weak quarter with food cans down a bit more which we expect to end up flat by year end and steel aerosol up mid-single-digits in the quarter.
Extruded aluminum containers continue to grow globally.
Also in the quarter we were notified by a food can customer of their decision to shift buying from Ball to a new supplier beginning no earlier than 2015.
While this is a ways away we do not expect this shift to be material to the company's results in 2015.
We have new things in the pipeline to deliver value-added packaging to other customers.
And as always we will actively manage our manufacturing footprint to enhance returns on invested capital.
In the first quarter we had 2 fewer accounting days as a result of moving to a quarterly calendar closing schedule and our effective tax rate was lower than expected due to lower taxes on foreign earnings and benefits of the reinstatement of the R&amp;D tax credit.
Net balance sheet debt at the end of the quarter was approximately $3.4 billion due to normal seasonal working capital build and nearly $90 million of pension plan contributions during the quarter.
Credit quality and liquidity of the company remains solid with comparable EBIT to interest coverage at 4.9x and net debt to comparable EBITDA at 3.1x.
Given our seasonality and strong full year free cash flow we anticipate year-end net debt levels to be in the range of $3.1 billion.
For a complete summary of the first quarter results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis please refer to the Notes section of today's earnings release.
Moving onto the financial metrics for full year 2013 hardly any changes here.
Interest expense is expected to remain flat with last year.
The effective tax rate on comparable earnings is expected to be approximately 28%.
We believe full year corporate expense to be in the range of $70 million due to onetime costs related to the impact of retiree and other deferred comp elections primarily in the first quarter.
CapEx is still expected to be in the range of $400 million and the free cash flow will be in the range of $450 million.
Our disciplined capital allocation remains with the majority of our free cash flow being returned to shareholders via share repurchases and dividends.
On balance absent the disappointment in Europe the remainder of the business is on track with our expectations.
With that I'll turn it back to you John.
Thanks Scott.
Our aerospace business continued to perform well with solid execution on existing programs and contracted backlog running slightly to $1.70 billion.
As in the past being cost competitive has allowed Ball to win our fair share of government contracts.
And despite some minor slippage in some of our more tactical products related to sequestration we remain well positioned.
After a long and very successful career at Ball Aerospace Dave Taylor retired at the end of the first quarter.
We thank him for his significant contributions to our company and wish him well in retirement.
Dave hands the reins over to Rob Strain who joined aerospace as Chief Operating Officer in early 2012 and is doing a great job in what has been a very smooth transition.
Now looking out across the operations today a few observations to share.
First we continue to expect the Americas Asia segment earnings to be relatively flat in 2013.
Specialty can growth in North America and Brazil is strong and cost out initiatives are on plan which are expected to offset anticipated lower volumes for 12-ounce containers in North America and difficult pricing in China.
In Europe beverage given existing challenges and the time required to achieve cost optimization across the region we are unlikely to fill the first quarter performance hole in 2013.
We anticipate seeing the benefits of ongoing cost-out initiatives later in the year end and into 2014.
And as such margins are expected to remain challenging in the second quarter.
Going forward our global food and household segment will benefit from increased demand for aluminum aerosol containers and the typical customer pull-through ahead for a normal seasonal vegetable harvest here in the United States.
In our aerospace business while some uncertainty still exists around future ramifications of sequestrations Ball's strong performance and track record should keep us well positioned for the long term.
With the exception of our European beverage business remaining segments operating performance are expected and anticipated to be solid and should improve over the back half of the year.
However given our first quarter results and volumes in the second quarter are off to a slow start it is unlikely we can reach our long-term 10% to 15% diluted earnings per share growth goal in 2013.
Our company's cash flow is strong and we are actively managing our businesses to align assets and cost structures to respond to current market conditions.
This is a year where our attention to detail and focus on operational excellence are required to position us well for the long term.
And with that Daisy we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start on Europe.
These things happen obviously from time to time and ultimately you've had good performance in Europe over the years.
It sounds like from listening and also reading through the press release that the issues in Europe to some degrees perhaps caught you by surprise.
And so I was wondering if you could provide a bit more details in terms of what varied if anything from your expectations in the quarter.
And then again if possible on a forum like this can you comment to the degree to which you ultimately see cost outs benefiting results? Obviously it's not going to happen in second quarter but in aggregate say by 2014.
Yes George this is John.
There are several things that surprised us a little bit.
The greatest of which candidly was probably volume.
Recall in January I had said that Europe we were facing some issues in Europe but we were coming off a year that we grew mid-single-digits.
And in Western and Northern Europe in particular not only the economic climate but they had a very long cold winter and beer was very soft and we're weighted towards beer.
And so we were down in the quarter and that was a big issue particularly when you're in a fixed-cost business.
Having said that though no excuses.
We've got to be laser focused on improving our cost out.
The shortfall was approximately 1/3 of volume and mix 1/3 of labor efficiencies related to the move as Scott said and then 1/3 related to higher costs whether it was metal premiums higher energy costs.
And we are laser focused on getting those costs out of our system.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The labor I'm assuming was related to what you needed to do once operating trends vary from what you were expecting.
But the metal premiums I'm not sure why that would have been any different than what you would have expected going into the year? Well we did.
We did expect some higher energy and labor premiums that we're -- excuse me metal premiums that we're having some challenges trying to push through into the marketplace.
The labor efficiencies where we had redundant costs related to several opening up a new headquarters and we hadn't yet closed the new headquarters and those things just take some time and we had a little bit higher labor cost than we expected in that business.
And so as I said we're getting after that right now because we have to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
John I'd ask the question.
I'm not sure you're in a position to answer it so I respect that but can you size what the cost outs might look like? If you mentioned already I apologize for missing it.
No I -- George I do think it is premature to review that.
Our folks are taking a full scrub and we're going to be talking with them in the next couple of weeks about that.
But we need to get the cost out.
And look this was a short-term blip and it had to do with -- it was the first time in a long time we actually had volumes decline in the quarter over in Europe.
And so we need to make sure that our costs are as aggressively controlled and possible because you can't anticipate given the economies of Europe that we're going to see mid-double -- or mid-single-digit growth.
And so we're planning for the worst and then the rest is upside if we can get after it.
Our next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question is just the earnings outlook not going to hit the 10% to 15% understood.
Should we be expecting EPS to be up year-over-year this year at this stage? And that's a question for the year but also for the second quarter given what you're saying about trends and some of these cost variables any color would be helpful.
Sure.
Moving into the second quarter it is starting off slower in terms of volumes.
So I think the second quarter has got some challenges.
Full year though we're still expecting earnings per share to be up.
We just said we're not going to hit our 10% to 15% long-term goal but we expect it to be up.
Recall Phil that at the first quarter we said we're going to be striving to reach the lower end of that range.
And so if we made the $3 plus at the end of '12 you can do the math there.
We've dug ourselves a $0.06 hole or so relative to that.
And so -- but it's still -- we still are going to be striving to get as much as we can it's just going to be difficult given the shortfall in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on the free cash flow guidance it sounds like you're keeping CapEx the same.
So if earnings are expected to be lower Scott are there other levers you're pulling here to keep that free cash flow? Or did you have cushion in that original guidance? Or how should we be thinking about that? We're finding some things on the working capital front that we can go after to make up for the shortfall in the earnings side.
And right now the CapEx plans that we have the growth capital that we're spending on are projects that we like.
It's a lot of specialty capacity in both North America and Brazil.
And those projects have proven to be well worth investing in and so we're going to be continue disciplined in deploying capital where we can find growth.
It's probably the maintenance side where we can maybe shave a little bit out but right now we're keeping the number the same.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
Last question just on the Europe mix issue could you just elaborate on what that is? I assume it's specialty cans but just kind of more detail in what you're seeing? And is that just seasonal or what is going on there? Well as I said we're -- number one we're more weighted to beer and beer is more weighted to $0.50 a liter.
And so with the softness overall -- I'll just give you context overall beer industry beer cans in the first quarter in France was down about 8.5%; in Germany down about 7%; and Belgium down about 2.5 % all largely related to the economy and weather.
I mean even in Germany they were having snow in April which is -- they haven't had in a long long time.
And so the mix issue is related to we were selling less beer which is $0.50 a liter predominantly and we're selling on a relative base more $0.33 a liter which is the standard container in Europe.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the metal premium issue in Europe.
Is that -- because first I thought the contract's pretty much adjusted for any changes in metal prices.
And the second is is it related to steel versus aluminum? It's not really related to steel versus aluminum this is aluminum premium.
And every contract is different.
There are some contracts where it's a straight pass.
There's other contracts that get negotiated on a shorter-term basis where all that has to get negotiated.
And I would say we need to do -- we need to push more of getting that premium passed through.
That's where we're getting squeezed a bit.
Research Division</strong> Is there -- are you going back to these customers and trying to get that contractually passed through on a go forward basis? No you have to honor the contracts that you have.
But obviously going forward you try to fix anything that's new that's coming up.
Or if contracts need to change for whatever reason that's high on our priority list of things to go after.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the -- you made a lot of management changes over the last year.
A lot of people retired so it's not as if the changes were made due to performance.
But is there anything in the last quarter where maybe just because of management changes the data wasn't flowing back as quickly as you would've expected? And so therefore Europe surprised a little bit just from an information flow perspective? I don't think it has anything to do with any management changes.
I would say if you're -- the one comment I made on undistributed cost being up a little bit that has to do with a little bit with retirements because of the way the deferred comp plans work and certain retiree elections.
So it was a little bit higher in the first quarter but I don't think there's any issue with -- we had a lot of changes last year in terms of going to the principal structure moving our headquarters to Zurich.
And when that -- and when something like that happens I think you have a tendency potentially to lose focus a little bit.
But I don't think it has to do with any personnel changes.
Yes.
And the other thing I'd point out is when you looked at our volumes sequentially through the quarter that actually in January they were okay.
And then it really started to get soft in February and even more so in March and I think largely it had to do with the prolonged winter.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just lastly it's -- the facility that you're consolidating is that -- that's just an administrative facility? That's correct.
It was our former regional headquarters and just outside of Düsseldorf.
Our next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> John just judging by what your customers are also reporting Heineken was out yesterday saying volumes were down 8% in Western Europe for the quarter.
So obviously they're seeing it and it's flown through the supply chain.
Are you seeing any sort of -- are you sensing any sort of re-think in terms of promotional activity at their end as they sort of adjust to this new reality of what's happening in Europe? Not yet but what I will tell you as a general rule in the United States and in Europe it's not lost on their customers that the volumes have been quite soft.
Obviously for different reasons we've been focused in Europe on the weather; even here in the United States not only weather but the payroll tax.
I think it's -- the impact on the consumer it surprised people a bit more.
So as we sit here thinking about promotional activity it's very high on the minds of trying to get their volumes back.
But I do think that we're just coming out of the winter time and so it's really late in the second quarter is when you'll start to see those promotions.
And the cycle of promotions is very different than it was say 5 years ago.
They happen much more quickly decisions are made much more quickly.
And so I think it's going to be more of a tactical approach to promotions and advertising as well.
I think you'll see a lot of marketing and advertising this summer in the beer category as well as the CSD category both here in the United States and over in Europe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just switching to Brazil your 2 primary competitors down there seem to be focused on adding capacity in Northern Brazil.
Can you just remind us on your Northern Brazilian strategy and how that sort of fits in with your plan for the region as a whole? Well we have.
As you know we started up a plant in the Northeast in Alagoinhas last year and everything is going very well.
And we even in January announced that we would by later on this year have a second line installed and it was tied up under a long-term agreement and we have halfway through the execution there and we expect probably late third quarter is when will -- that will get up and running.
And so when you talk about North I don't -- I wouldn't describe it as a Northern Brazil strategy it's our Brazil strategy and a customer focused strategy.
Right next to our Alagoinhas plants 2 of our big customers have built brand-new breweries there.
Our next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You guys are mentioning that your office slow start in 2Q.
Can you provide a little color which businesses you're seeing a little more weakness from? Well relative to last year I would say here in North America the beverage can volumes are a bit soft.
I think if you look at IRI-type data you can see just again the overall market is soft on the soft drink and beer side.
I know that some of the soft drink companies over the last couple of weeks have talked about that.
And then over in Europe it's -- the winter was prolonged.
I mentioned snow in Germany in mid-April.
That's in some ways that's unprecedented and so it's just a bit slow.
But as we start to cycle into the summertime it is weather dependent but it was really those 2 things that I was referring to.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then on the food can business I'm surprised to see some inventory holding drag from template.
I would've thought template prices were pretty flat.
Did you see a drop-off? Is that why there was a drag on the quarter? There was just a little bit of that.
It had to do with some higher cost inventory from how we ran from the fourth quarter into the first quarter.
So I wouldn't read too much into that.
Yes.
Remember we took a lot of downtime in the food can business in the fourth quarter last year and to manage inventories and that helped generate some very good cash flows for us.
But then -- so you're spreading a fixed-cost nut if you will over smaller volume and that's where the higher cost of inventory flows through and it's just -- it's a timing issue.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just one last question on China.
Demand's still pretty strong.
One of your competitors mentioned that some of the regional players are having some execution issues they're having some setbacks.
So perhaps the excess capacity is not as bad as people have feared.
Are you seeing that dynamic? And has that opened a door for you to win some new business? And what are your thoughts on pricing I guess potentially turning to the positive going forward? Well I think all that you suggest is we would be at the same way.
Meaning volumes are -- continue to go strong.
As we said we're relatively sold out.
We haven't added a lot of capacity in the market.
And so as we go into the summer it'll be interesting to see if there are indeed how tight the market gets.
And we are going to take a very pragmatic approach to prioritizing our customer demand and how we supply that relative to where the economic returns are.
And so we are going to make sure that our customers that want to be with us for the long term and aren't just tactical price buyers we're going to focus on those relationships over the tactical price buyers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So it sounds like there is potentially some opportunity to get a little better pricing if things do firm up into the year during the peak summer months then? Yes there could be.
But again it is a bit early and there are some operational problems.
But the local competitors over in China they're -- they have a capability of getting their act together.
And so we'll see how the summer unfolds.
Our next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> I was on a few minutes late so I apologize if you addressed this.
In light of the slightly softer guidance on the EPS line to get to the free cash flow number are you planning to reduce CapEx a little bit? Or do you think you'll have a little bit better working capital managed? How do you think you will get there? Well it's still real early in year.
But right now we think we've got a little more upside in working capital than what we had.
We didn't change our CapEx guidance for the year.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And then secondly on the aerospace division if there were an impact or is going to be an impact from the sequester when do you think that would both show up in the backlog and possibly in the actual results? Well I think there's 2 ways you got to think about this.
The backlog we have is contracted backlog and that's been increasing and I think that's relatively solid.
And so you wouldn't see anything and that's a lot of the -- what I have described as the space hardware of what we do there.
That's pretty firm pretty solid because these are satellites that need to be replenished and we're not seeing any impact with respect to sequestration at least right now on that.
On the more tactical products the antennas for say the Joint Strike Fighter and other more tactical programs like that we have seen a slippage to the right not cancellations but a slippage to the right.
That part of our businesses is certainly a much smaller part of the business than our space hardware.
And so I think if you're going to see softness you'll see it in that area.
LLC</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then -- and again I apologize if you addressed this it seems like your experience in Europe and I know that segments by company aren't apples-to-apples but it seems like it's been a little bit tougher in the first part of the year than your other competitors.
And could that be because of who your specific customers are or the mix of business with say soft drinks versus beer.
Can you give us a little help with that? Yes I did address that earlier.
So I'd ask you to go back when the transcripts comes out.
But it really gets into the geographic location.
Western Europe France Benelux region Germany that's a sweet spot for us and where a lot of our production capacity and customers are.
And it's -- we are focused on beer there.
Given the weather and given the economic conditions it was quite soft in those regions relative to some other regions.
LLC</strong> And then last -- real quickly more for Scott is there any obvious or are there obvious things you're looking at to even further lower your debt cost given this incredible environment? Or do you feel you've pretty much done all you can do? No we're always looking at the debt markets and they've been very attractive lately.
So we're always looking and we'll be opportunistic.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> On Brazil what were your like-for-like volumes in the quarter excluding the new plant? And what do you expect the market growth to be in subsequent quarters? I don't have the like -- I mean the year-over-year volumes were up 44%.
Taking out the new capacity I don't...
Yes we were -- absent the new facility we were sold out.
And so we've been getting some productivity improvements there.
But when you don't have anything else to sell it's tough to sell more.
And so -- hopefully that addresses the first question.
On the second question we continue to see I think in the first quarter industry volumes were up around 9% in Brazil.
We're starting to enter their "winter" months.
But I think all the prospects based on conversations with our customers and based upon the economic activity related to infrastructure builds for the World Cup next year I think as we go through the back half of 2013 and into 2014 we're going to continue to see a nice volume improvements in Brazil.
Research Division</strong> And just one more on the food can contract can you go into any more detail about what happened with that contract? Obviously you said you're not going to lose it before 2015 but any additional insight into that situation? Other than we're talking a couple of years out into the future when you have something like that usually it comes under price is my guess.
So price plays a big part of it.
But nothing more to offer.
We -- I think we know how to -- we've got other things in the pipeline from a new product perspective and we'll manage our footprint as necessary.
And we've done this before in other businesses so we know how to do it.
So we're just letting people know.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about how much of that double-digit drop in 12-ounce North American bev you've been able to offset with specialty cans? Quite a bit.
I mean if you look at the profitability you can't see the profitability [ph] of North America but they've done a heck of a job of both -- of taking out costs growing specialty can.
I mean even some of the business some of the same customers that we reduced 12-ounce volume with we're growing specialty business.
So it's been a great offset to that business to offset the declines in 12-ounce.
Yes.
I would just add that from a volume perspective we grew mid-teens in the specialty size.
It's all obviously off a smaller base but then -- so our overall volumes are down.
But the double-digit improvement of specialty it now represents 22% 23% of our overall mix.
Now part of it has to do with lower 12-ounce obviously but the other part has to do with increasing specialty.
And it's -- we've been very focused on that.
There's a variety of new products coming out this year related to that and we continue to focus on that segment.
I think that and managing the cost base aggressively has really done a great job.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And am I correct that the kind of the throughput just the unit throughput on specialty cans tends to be a bit lower than on the 12-ounce? That is correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are you likely given this growth in specialty are you likely to have to make any more capacity changes over the next 12 months as you see it right now? Well I think in the growth capital that Scott has mentioned and anticipated in that is some of these changes.
And it's not adding new capacity it's converting 12-ounce capacity to other sizes and capabilities.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then could you also just address kind of the timing on pure repurchase activity? The stock's down about 4.5% today.
I wondered whether you're likely to do kind of more at a point like this or whether you'll wait till the second half of the year when your cash flow tends to be stronger? No.
I think it sounds like it's on sale today.
So it sounds probably a good day to buy.
We've got to get out of a blackout period.
But we're still on track to use most of our free cash flow to buy back our stock and we'll anticipate we'll get there.
Our next question comes from the line of Al Kabili with Macquarie Group.
Just a question on Europe on the higher labor cost you cited.
Is that a big sequential step-up that you saw fourth quarter to one quarter that helped catch you by surprise? I think the costs were -- kind of came into the business in the second half of last year.
This move to Zurich is more than just a move of headquarters.
So we went to what's called a principle structure where the plants essentially instead of become -- being kind of their own of profit and loss center become a tolling manufacturing operation and a distributing operation.
And I think we've got some added people cost because of that.
So it added complexity to the business.
And I think we added people because of that and now we're going through a process.
I've been over to Europe twice in the past couple of weeks as we look into how do we streamline some of those processes and make it more efficient.
Okay all right.
And along those lines I know you mentioned higher metal premiums in Europe.
But I think I understand there was some opportunity in some contracts for higher prices.
So can you just talk about -- are you saying that you didn't get enough pricing to offset all of the increase in metal premiums? Or was there any extra pricing in this year in Europe has [ph] ? No I think that's fair.
I mean we didn't get enough price to offset some of the cost structures.
There's also -- energy costs are up dramatically in Europe.
Tax they're raising energy taxes dramatically in places like Germany and France and so those kinds of things are impacting you too.
Okay.
Now on the energy it's a little bit surprising to me on the energy front just given historically there's not a lot of energy usage for a can plant.
And traditionally we haven't seen a big sensitivity to energy prices in terms of your earnings.
So is there anything unusual going on this year in terms of that? And is there opportunity on your contract structures is that a year lag? Or what's the structural like to pass some of that through? Well I mean there's a fair amount of energy use -- electricity used in making -- in a can plant if you walk through a can plant.
Typically the energy prices don't change as dramatically but energy prices in Germany for instance they've raised.
They're moving away from all their nuclear plants they're going to renewable energy which is a good green thing to do but it's going to drive the costs much higher.
And so we're seeing the impact of that.
In terms of -- I'm trying to remember the second part of your question...
The structure for pass-through right now -- yes because some of them have pass-throughs for that kind of stuff.
I think it might be a year lag but...
Yes there are lags and it would depend on the contract again.
But there is a lag so you know you're going to feel the pain for a period of time until you get to reopen those contracts.
Okay all right.
And then follow-up just on aerospace I mean I know it's lumpy quarter-to-quarter.
So in this quarter you were I think $18 million or so of EBIT and I know it's lumpy.
So is that just kind of unusual versus the recent sort of experience we saw last year? Or how should we be thinking about the run rate of the aerospace business? Remember last year we had a number of close out of contracts and the lumpiness has to do with when you're starting up new contracts usually the profitability is a bit lower on the front end of it relative to back end just because the risk's higher.
And as you execute on those contracts and reduce the risk the profitability goes up.
And so we had a number of close outs in 2012 and we have a number of ramp ups which is good for the long term in 2013.
That's the vast majority if not all of exactly what we are talking about.
Okay so we should -- so should we expect then as we get to the back half of this year that that starts to tick back up as these projects move forward in time? Or is this kind of a good run rate for the rest of the year? It's probably closer to a good run rate for the rest of the year.
And remember these contracts often are 3 4 5 year contracts.
And so when you're sitting we -- as I said we had a -- you look at our margins last year they were record high margins.
And they were -- because there are so many close outs and I think we're having so many startups here.
And so the fundamentals of that business are quite good.
But really where that profitability will really assuming we're executing really starts to fall in 2014 and '15.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of housekeeping or miscellaneous questions.
But first let me start with aerospace.
If I heard earlier and to follow-up on Al's question if I heard earlier I thought you said for the balance for the year with the exception of Europe that would be down on a year-over-year basis in North America or Americas bev where you intended to be flat but you'd indicate all the businesses would likely be up for the year.
So kind of marry that with your previous comments as we think of the run rate for the balance of the year should we still be thinking about aerospace year-over-year being up or being flat or being modestly lower? No I don't think it's up.
Remember in January what I said is there's not upside relative to aerospace.
And so if we miscommunicated that apologies there.
I think -- I'm sorry? LLC Research Division</strong> No problem.
That was in earlier comments I might have picked it up incorrectly.
Second question I had was with respect to as we look at some of the specialty can and trying to delineate between what we're seeing in sort of your 12-ounce business versus your specialty business were all pieces up or down in Europe? In North America obviously we knew you lost a lot of regular business.
But when we're looking around different regions how should we think about which pieces are doing well which pieces aren't specifically trying to weigh [ph] some of that? Well in Europe as I said with -- we had mix issues related to -- we had lower specialty sales relative to standard sales.
And a lot of it had to do with we're selling less beer which is $0.50 a liter and selling relatively more CSD which is $0.33 a liter.
I think that's the biggest change in Europe.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one other question with respect to Europe is what's your mix as it sits today steel versus aluminum? Well as this is public knowledge but we're in the process of converting one of our German plants from steel to aluminum.
And that's in some of the CapEx that Scott had mentioned and that should be largely completed within the next month or so.
And so pro forma that after we go through that it's less than 1/3 steel and then the balance of it aluminum.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Last question was was the -- your anticipation as the year rolls on with some of the beer customers in Europe is it that -- I know you talked about some of the promotional activity that could help buoy things a bit but is it your anticipation that that business will get a little bit better absent many cost-cutting pieces number one.
And then number two do you worry about other capacity adjustments over there? I recognize you are going to do some work structurally more on back-office headquarters that type of stuff but do you feel you would want any other capacity realignment or adjustments over there as well? No we don't see any capacity realignments in Europe at this time.
The market fundamentally is still growing.
We're just coming off of one quarter a seasonally slow quarter that had bad weather and was soft.
And so as we go into the year you have to assume that weather will be normalized in there and we expect volumes to come back.
And we have said this in the prior couple of conference calls that we don't have any plans on adding capacity until we get our cost structure right there.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the food can contract that is going to be lost in 2015.
Is that going to go to -- is that a new entrant in the marketplace or another player that's not the other 2 big players that we know in the market? It's a -- we're not 100% sure.
So anything we'd say is speculating so it could be either one of what you're saying.
And we believe it could be a new entrant but we're not 100% sure.
Research Division</strong> Okay John.
And then on the specialty can side here in the U.S.
you talked about your mix being 22% to 23% of your can production in the U.S.
is specialty.
Do you have an estimate of what that number is for the market? Much less much less.
We'd lead the market relative to specialty container.
So I don't know the number off the top of my head but I'm going to guess it's probably half that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then how much more room do you see on your end to continue to improve the mix towards specialty? I mean is there an upper bound that you see? Well yes there is always an upper bound and one of the reasons why we improved is because we had less 12-ounce as you know.
We've been over the past number of years spending a lot of time on looking at new customers and new markets.
The craft beer market is a good one with -- that I mentioned in my prepared remarks.
Yes it's a 12-ounce container but it's a non-standard 12-ounce container that we'll be rolling out with that one customer.
So there's a variety of opportunities there.
You think about even on the CSD side and several years ago there were none of these 7.5-ounce cans.
And now they have really started to taken off and even some of our big customers have publicly talked about double-digit growth there and their focus on it.
So I think there's just a lot of opportunity in mainstream and in some of the more-unique categories where historically cans did not play a part of.
Research Division</strong> Interesting.
My last question is on Brazil.
Can you talk about how your customer base down there is beginning to prepare for the World Cup next year? And whether there's any preliminary implications of what that would mean for demand of the metal can relative to the glass bottle? Yes what I can tell you is there is a variety of beer customers.
Virtually every beer company down there a major one that we're aware of are putting significant capital dollars towards canned filling.
And we pay a very close attention to that.
and I'm sure other people in the industry do.
And so there's a good sense that there's going to be a focus on cans as we go into the World Cup.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citibank.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on specialties.
Granted volumes have been strong.
When you look at the supply-demand balance in North America given some of your competitors are adding specialty capacity as well and experiencing some of the same pressures in 12-ounce is the margin premium or the return premium you get from specialties over commodity cans has it been a fairly stable over the last year or is it in some cases expanding or contracting? Or is there any way that you can help us think about that? No it's reasonably stable.
And it's important to   point out though when we talk about specialty it's not just one specialty size.
We make everything from 5.8-ounce all the way up to 32-ounce and we make approximately 20 different sizes.
And so when you think about from a manufacturing perspective when someone's putting in new specialty capacity they may be putting in one particular size and that has no effect on other sizes.
So you just need to be conscious of that fact.
But as I think we go forward we are seeing a proliferation of sizes which creates complexity.
And I think as a result of that the supply and demand balance of that is relatively healthy right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just going back to North American beverage is there any way that you can quantify the impact of the Gainesville shutdown? Or to -- what percentage of that capacity is going to be filled out of other existing facilities? Or is there any kind of way that you can quantify that? Well we moved some of that equipment into existing end facilities in North America.
So we still needed to produce a decent number of those adds.
So some of it is being redeployed in North America and some of it is available to be deployed in other places.
Research Division</strong> The majority of that capacity will be redeployed elsewhere? Majority? About half.
Yes.
Yes about half will be redeployed into existing facilities here in the U.S.
which is actually already done.
Remember Gainesville is winding down right now.
It's a very small staff and crew right now because the equipment has already been moved out and moved into other places here in North America.
And the remaining equipment as what Scott was saying can be redeployed into other growth areas outside the United States.
Our next question is a follow-up question from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I want to come back to the food can issue.
And I think I know a little bit of what's behind it.
But still food can contracts moving from one supplier to another on price in a market where there is no growth smacks of the 1990s and not in a good way.
And so I recognize every year there's probably a little bit of movement here and there but do you sense that the food can market is taking a different turn in terms of competition from price standpoint than what we've seen here the last 10 years? And then the related question I know it's early could we assume that when that volume moves that you'll be able to utilize the facilities to produce any number of products that you're making these days that you weren't maybe making say 10 15 years ago? Yes.
George the first answer is no.
We believe this to be an isolated event.
Secondly with our facilities many of our facilities' tin plate we have co-manufactured aerosol containers as well as food containers there.
And Scott mentioned we have some opportunities.
We have some new technologies and new products that are coming down the pipe that we're going -- we are exploring.
We haven't made any decision on that.
And certainly in a fixed-cost business a great way of leveraging your fixed cost is putting it into existing facilities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the last question to the extent that you can comment this new contract that you have in craft beer is it a shaped can in any way? And is there any way to size the volume that's fully running? Yes it is.
The can is a 12-ounce.
It has a unique size on the end which is different and it will be in market shortly.
I know there's pictures out there on the Internet.
In terms of the growth opportunity candidly it's too early to tell.
This is a new product that's getting out to the market.
As you know we have seen a lot of strong growth in the craft beer market.
And when you go with a company the size of this one starts to put their weight behind it we just don't know what the opportunity is but we think it's real important.
If nothing else because it's yet another further validation of the can has a place to play in a different market than it historically had.
Our next question is a follow-up question from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> Last time I seem to recall that you -- not last quarter but just in the past that when you buttoned-up some of your joint ventures in China that your share there was north of 30%.
And we've been hearing about very strong growth in China.
My question is how much do you think the supply still exceeds the demand in the marketplace? In other words what are operating rates? And if we continue to see recent growth rates when do you think we get to a tighter condition there? Yes.
We talked about this on the first quarter call I remember.
And we said overcapacity and our estimation is in the range of 20% to 25% and the overall market has been growing 10% to 15%.
So it's probably about 2 years or so maybe a little bit less maybe a little bit more depending on the growth of the market.
We just had another quarter of reasonably strong growth in the industry and which is generally consistent with what I talked about there.
And so I don't think anything that we talked about on the first quarter has fundamentally changed.
LLC</strong> Now how about in terms of some of the smaller players? And maybe you can't be terribly specific but do you sense that there is more a consolidation opportunity? Or do you think these guys are just going to wait it out? I probably can't comment on that.
But what I would tell you is anytime there's overcapacity in a strong growth market people -- the reason why there's overcapacity is people are investing ahead and then they realize that wasn't such a good idea.
And if you're financially strong you can probably weather it.
If you're not financially strong you probably have to think about alternatives.
Our next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the CapEx for the $400 million this year how much of that is spoken for? Because I believe maintenance is like $200 million to $220 million and then you have some carryover from last year.
So -- I mean how much wiggle room do you really have on that number? Well things can always slide to the right.
I mean if you recall last year where we started CapEx estimation and then it came down through the year because a lot of things kind of slid to the right.
And that's -- there's usually not much that gets canceled it's probably more that gets shifted.
And so it just slows -- we slow down the pace of it.
Yes I would say all things equal relative to last year though a little bit more of it is committed because it was the carryover from last year.
Yes so we had a lot of things that -- we've announced the Alagoinhas line in January.
So much of that capital will get spent this year as it comes up and running in hopefully by the end of the third quarter.
Like some of the specialty things that we've done in the U.S.
those things are going to happen.
So it's probably less potential to have huge shifts in that capital I would agree with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So as we think about the number last year around $300 million as we look forward beyond this year and kind of ignore the carryover impacts is that realistically kind of the real floor for how low CapEx would go? No it really is dependent on the opportunities.
I mean every one is a discrete decision that is determined by the customer contract.
We talked about Europe we need to do some things in Europe on the cost side before we commit to expanding capacity there.
We're still seeing decent growth in markets like Brazil and North American specialty and even China continues to grow well while we're not adding any capacity we get pricing better there.
So we're still seeing growth opportunities but I wouldn't say it's necessarily a floor or a ceiling because it depends on the opportunities that are there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my other question on free cash flow is this is the third straight year we're seeing guidance for significant working capital benefits.
So is this -- at what point do we reach saturation on those opportunities versus -- is this still like a multiyear opportunity for you? Well we're not done yet.
So I would say we're still expecting some benefits in '13 and then we'll see -- a lot of the guys kind of across the businesses and treasury and a lot of different sourcing and then the businesses have been very creative as to how we go after this.
And we're -- it's kind of like an ongoing treadmill you're never really done.
Yes.
As you know we're evangelical on EVA dollars.
And historically we have focused on EBIT and CapEx.
And what Scott is really talking about is we see opportunities on the working capital line and we're going after them.
We do have a follow-up question from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> One last one and piggybacking on Chip's question earlier and your comments as well early in the presentation.
Perhaps you mentioned it but how do we reconcile you using an ability perhaps to optimize your customer mix? That's my phrasing not yours but paraphrasing in China with an intent towards perhaps repricing when you still have from your vantage point excess capacity in the market? Well it's -- I'm talking only on behalf of Ball and we're sold out.
And so if things get tight and customers need more cans we're going to be looking at where it makes sense for Ball to be selling those cans that are scarce to us.
Mr.
Hayes there are no further questions at the time.
Okay great.
Well thank you very much Daisy and thank you everyone.
I just have one reminder that we're going to be hosting an Investor Day and a management briefing in Midtown Manhattan on October 2 and 3.
Analysts and institutional investors should contact Ann Scott for an invitation.
And thank you for participating on today's call and we look forward to talking to you in 3 months time.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Ball Corporation Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday July 25 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Hayes Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Ciglund.
And good morning everyone.
This is Ball Corporation's conference call regarding the company's second quarter 2013 results.
The information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Some factors that could cause the results or outcomes to differ are in the company's latest 10-K and in other company SEC filings as well as company news releases.
If you don't already have our earnings release it's available on our website at ball.com.
Information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
Joining me on the call today is Scott Morrison Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'll provide a brief overview of our company's performance Scott will discuss financial and global packaging metrics then I'll finish up with comments of our aerospace business and the outlook for the remainder of 2013.
Now despite a very cold and damp spring particularly in North America and Western and Central Europe that resulted in volume declines for standard beverage cans in these regions our second quarter results were largely in line with expectations.
In fact the soft demand resulting from the challenging weather and global economic malaise actually more than offset much of the good work and performance our various businesses have accomplished.
Over the past month we've begun to see more normalized weather patterns and slightly better demand than we saw in the second quarter which if sustainable should give us better visibility as we cycle into the second half of 2013 and more importantly into 2014.
During the quarter we tackled a variety of issues including: aggressively addressing the unusually soft demand in our 12-ounce U.S.
beverage container manufacturing output by permanently eliminating 12-ounce capacity in our Milwaukee Wisconsin facility; making progress on European cost-out plans through among other items announcing the consolidation of our former European headquarters in Ratingen Germany into our regional technical center in Bonn Germany; as well as other G&amp;A optimization measures.
While we are working through the various approvals required we expect this to be completed in the first half of 2014 and combined with other cost-out and value-in initiatives will help us to improve our fixed cost leverage in this segment.
In Brazil we are on track to complete the installation of a second line in our Alagoinhas beverage can manufacturing facility by early fourth quarter of this year which positions us nicely as we look to the World Cup next summer.
In Asia we are in the process of relocating the capacity from our one-line facility in Shenzhen China to one of our existing locations there.
This optimized footprint and better cost structure will position us nicely in the growing Southeast China region.
Our food and household products business also had a good quarter with volumes up 8%.
And we are finalizing the installation of another production line in our Mexican impact-extruded facility.
Lastly in the quarter we took advantage of attractive credit markets to increase our financial flexibility by amending and extending our credit facility coupled with the issuance of $1 billion of 10.5-year senior notes at 4%.
And with that I'll turn it over to Scott for a review of our second quarter numbers.
Scott? Thanks John.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in the second quarter were $0.85 versus last year's $0.89.
Also in the quarter the company recorded after-tax charges totaling approximately $32.6 million primarily related to business consolidation and debt refinancing costs.
Our metal beverage Americas and Asia segment comparable earnings were down year-over-year.
These results were slightly weaker than expectations given continued weak industry demand for our standard cans in North America where our volumes were down double digits in the quarter which was consistent with the first quarter trend.
From a manufacturing perspective cost containment and operating performance at the plant level were exceptional in all regions and specialty cans in the Americas continued to grow at a double-digit pace.
The European segment profit declined in the quarter due to slightly lower volumes brought about by challenging economic and weather conditions coupled with higher labor and input cost both of which are being addressed aggressively.
In food and household year-over-year segment earnings were higher due to improving volume trends our recently acquired Mexico plant and good performance in our steel and aluminum aerosol businesses.
Segment volumes increased 8% in the quarter and conditions leading into the seasonal fruit and vegetable pack are favorable.
Transitioning from operations.
During the quarter our corporate undistributed costs were roughly in line with expectations the effective tax rate was slightly lower than we anticipated and we repurchased a net $202 million of our stock.
Net balance sheet debt at the end of the quarter was approximately $3.7 billion.
Credit quality and liquidity of the company remained solid with comparable EBIT-to-interest coverage at 4.7x and net debt-to-comparable EBITDA of 3.2x.
Committed credit and available liquidity at quarter end was in excess of $900 million.
Given our seasonality and strong full year free cash flow we anticipate year-end net debt levels to be in the range of $3.1 billion.
For a complete summary of the second quarter results on a GAAP and non-GAAP bases please refer to the notes section of today's earnings release.
Moving on to financial metrics for full year 2013.
Hardly any changes here.
Interest expense will be in the range of $183 million due to some negative carry associated with the senior notes offering.
Full year effective tax rate on comparable earnings is expected to be approximately 27% and full year corporate expense is expected to be around $73 million.
CapEx is still in the range of $400 million and free cash flow will be in the range of $450 million.
And the majority of our free cash flow is expected to be returned to shareholders via share repurchases and dividends.
With that I'll turn it back to you John.
Thanks Scott.
Our aerospace business continued to perform well in the quarter with solid execution on existing programs the award of a Korean environmental instrument and solid contracted backlog at $966 million.
While backlog continues to remain at or near record levels we have seen some slight delays in U.S.
government contract awards due to the effects of sequestration.
Our operating performance has been excellent and we remain well positioned while continuing to monitor closely our timing of project starts as we move into the third quarter.
Longer term we are seeing a variety of opportunities both domestically and internationally that will continue to help grow our business and help mitigate any effects of sequestration.
Now looking out across our company today a few observations to share.
Over the past month we have seen some improvement in the demand for standard beverage cans in North America and Europe although we are not planning to recoup the volume shortfall of the first half of the year.
In our metal beverage Americas segment a tremendous amount of great work has been done to arrest the volume issues we have been facing.
And while it is not impossible our ability to reach last year's profitability in this segment for the full year will be challenging.
In Europe beverage we have plans in place and are executing on a variety of cost-out and value-in projects the majority of which will be realized in 2014 and 2015 which should get us back to operating margins consistent with the 2010-2011 period.
Plantings to date related to the seasonal vegetable harvest for our food and household products business look good.
And as of today and if the weather holds for a strong pack we should see continued good performance out of this business in the second half.
Going forward we also see some more upside with the aluminum aerosol business performing well.
In our aerospace business Ball's strong performance and track record should keep us well positioned for the long term.
So given all of this we expect strong free cash flow as Scott had mentioned; full year 2013 results to exceed full year 2012 comparable diluted earnings per share results; and a return to a more historical earnings per share growth in 2014.
And with that Ciglund [ph] we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> John I think you mentioned you saw some pickup in the beginning of the third quarter in demand in North America.
I was wondering if you could just talk to us about that a little bit.
Is it just weather returning more normal? Or are you actually seeing some pickup in promotional activity that's been relatively nonexistent? What exactly are you seeing there? I think the vast majority of it has been weather related.
As you know the month of June particularly the first half of the month of June had the same trends in May being largely wet and even cold and we've seen a more normalization of that.
There has been a little bit more spot promotion but that -- I think the vast majority of it is weather.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when I look at your volumes you said your 12-ounce volume was down double digit.
I think the industry was down about 5% in the quarter.
I know that 12-ounce is not your only offering.
Can you talk about sort of how your volumes overall compared relative to the industry and maybe how your mix played into that somehow...
Well yes.
On the specialty side we grew double digits again in this quarter which was -- helped to offset our softness in the 12-ounce.
And on an -- on a apples-to-apples comparison if you exclude the business that we lost last year we were about down on the 12-ounce side equal to the industry and then you just compound that with the business we walked away from.
And that's why we were a little bit worse than the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly the facility or the -- you said you were going to eliminate a 12-ounce line in Milwaukee.
Is there anything left of that facility? Are we closing a full facility? And if so what will you think about cost reduction? No that was one of our facilities that the -- we shared with the metal food business.
And we make 2-piece food cans there as well.
And we've right-sided the G&amp;A part of that business as we go forward as best we can.
But we are still making 2-piece food cans there.
Our next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> On -- first on Brazil a lot of your packaging peers have reported challenges there in the beverage business whether it's weather or the economy or social unrest or whatever the reason.
Can you just give us your perspective on the market and then how you're thinking about the upcoming selling season in 4Q and 1Q? Yes.
Actually we feel reasonably bullish on what's going down in Brazil.
As you know we started up a new facility beginning of this year.
Our plans are on track for adding a second line in.
Our customer base which is at times different than maybe some of the people you're referring to has been reasonably strong.
We're well diversified into the Northeast and to -- and then down into the South.
So overall we feel pretty good.
And as you know we're just -- it's beginning of their spring right now so we're starting to get into the heavier selling season.
And with the startup of the second line in Alagoinhas I think we feel pretty good particularly going into the World Cup in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the beverage can business as a whole how should we think -- kind of think about inventories across North America and Europe given all the challenges you faced during the first half? I guess I'm asking because should we expect below-average operating rates during the third quarter.
Or is it pretty well sort of aligned by now? We're managing that as we go along in the year actually.
And so inventory rates are a little bit higher than where we expected them to be given the softness in volume and -- but we kind of monitor that as we move throughout the year.
Our next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions to start.
Can you tell us to the degree that you're looking at your headcount in aerospace do you expect given the opportunities you have in the next couple of years that you'll be able to maintain your headcount within aerospace? Yes.
And in fact even year-to-date we're up slightly in the aerospace business because we've been winning work.
And -- but I think as we go forward George we would continue to grow the headcount because you're going to see continued growth in revenue.
Research Division</strong> Right.
No and that's the point I was trying to get at.
So if -- that's a good sign that your headcount is up right now and suggests that whatever you're seeing out of sequestration you're being able to manage it with other opportunities.
That would be fair? Yes.
Yes it is fair.
You know what as you know our backlog is down slightly from the last quarter but the real issue is we've been burning off backlog and the government hasn't made any decisions because many of their employees have been furloughed.
And so the decisions are just being slowed but our contracted work is still going well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And now the next question I have for you and Scott you made the comment about you're working very hard to arrest the decline in 12-ounce beverage can.
You obviously shut the line in Milwaukee.
You've been doing other activity to shift your mix to specialty cans.
But aside from that is there anything that you're seeing either from your customers to support growth rates either for mega beer or for softdrinks or anything that you're doing within 12-ounce or cans broadly to support growth there? We've been doing a lot but let's first start with the customers.
As you know the end markets beer is down 2.5% 2.6% and that's the biggest decline that they've had in a long time.
And so they've been doing a lot of innovation work trying to arrest the demographic change: as people get older they've been drinking less beer; but also the shift to spirits and wines because they very much have been focused on the value side the pricing side relative to volume.
I think the same thing holds true on the CSD.
And as you know CSD has been challenged.
It's a little bit more sensitive to economic issues and I think this payroll tax has hurt them a little bit more.
The pricing strategies they very much have been focused on.
And so CSD is down in overall category a little bit more than beer.
I think both of those segments the -- our customers are very much focused on the long-term aspects of this because that's where a lot of their value is derived from then.
So just based on first- and second-hand knowledge of working with those customers they are trying to put some more excitement into their categories.
Some of it has to do with innovation and coming out with their new products.
Some of it has to do with innovation around packaging.
And some of it has to do with innovation about placements.
And so I think they're very much focused on all those.
And as you know innovation is a key part of our strategy and so we've been helping them on that.
Research Division</strong> John I thought I saw a headline recently about you using a straw-in-can innovation in Europe.
I -- correct me if I'm wrong but if that is correct do you have the ability to do that here in the States as well? And is there any interest in that? We do have the ability to do that in the States yes.
And we don't think that's going to be a huge discriminator but yes we can do it in the United States.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question and then I'll turn it over.
There's obviously been a lot discussed about some relevant maybe some maybe not but in terms of your potential customer loss in a couple of years.
Can you update us with kind of the latest you can provide in terms of how you plan to deal with that potential customer loss or that actual customer loss in '15? And what actually have you garnered already or progress in terms of refilling? Well it's premature to tell the outside world what we're doing but we definitely George have plans in place to recover most if not all of that loss from a profit perspective.
I'm not talking about from a volume perspective.
Our volume will be down but we're here to make money not necessarily only to make cans.
And so at the appropriate time we'll be talking about it.
I just think it's premature based on some of the activities and the impact that has to be talking about it on this call today.
And our next question comes from the line of Philip Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question.
John you talked about some nice margin recovery opportunity in Europe.
It sounds like you're kind of targeting something in the 12% range which would be maybe 200 to 300 basis points higher than where you are now.
And you've talked about a variety of different factors that have driven the results so far this year.
So I guess my question is if you could parse out for us what part of that recovery comes from just cost-out and those types of opportunities versus things like getting more price to recover the input cost inflation you've been seeing from metal premiums and other things to get there? That would be helpful.
Yes let me first clarify.
I think when I talked about the 2010-2011 time frame it's closer to 11% to 12%.
You're at the high end of that.
And I wouldn't disagree that's an aspiration but it's going to take an awful lot of hard work to get to that.
But having said that the types of initiatives we have ongoing is taking a look at our G&amp;A headcount.
And as part of that it's not only about the headcount it's about how we conduct our various processes whether it's payroll processes whether it's credit collections all those various things.
We think there's a lot of opportunity to move to more of a truly pan-European approach to that and take a lot of cost out.
I think we have a lot of opportunity on the freight side and the logistics side of the business in optimizing that and we're doing a lot of activities there.
We have some other cost activities at the plant level although as Scott mentioned the plants are performing very well from a manufacturing perspective.
And then last but not least the value-in is about trying to get paid for what we think is good value and also looking at our mix issues.
So it's a combination of a whole host of things that we think over the next 2-plus years will get us there.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Thanks for the clarification on that number.
I think I hadn't stripped out aero can.
But so what you're saying is you don't need price to recover the input costs as part of this plan? Not completely.
We're -- put it this way: We're not relying on it but we're certainly focusing on it.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then the second question is just -- you talk also about the framework for 2014 kind of being in place with the long-term view of kind of a 10% to 15% EPS growth.
So I guess that what I was wondering there is just as you think about the drivers of that and what will you continue to see from the volume side of the equation what kind of volumes do you feel like you need to assume for regions like Europe and North America to get to that kind of target? I mean if North America is going to continue to be down let's say 2% to 3% can you still get there? Or do we need something closer to flat in North America to reach that type of a target? No.
I think from a big picture we need -- kind of need more normalized volumes that we've seen over the past couple of years.
And what that means in North America it's probably down 1% to 2% maybe even 3%.
It's the 6 -- 5% or 6% declines that really put a -- makes it challenging.
But as you've seen we've take -- been able to take out a tremendous amount of fixed cost in our business.
In Europe we're kind of focusing on the more traditional growth call it the 2% to 5% growth.
It's an even year next year.
And putting weather aside with the World Cup those are big drivers for European beverage can growth as well as Latin American beverage can growth.
And with it being in Brazil I think there is some upside there.
China all the trends that we've talked about in the past continue to go forward.
So in order to achieve the -- our long-term targets in 2014 we just need a more normalized set of volumes that we have not experienced in the first half of this year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
The last question is just one of your peer companies was talking about significant underproduction in areas like France for beer in the second quarter.
And I didn't know if maybe it's -- there are some elements of that that were impacting you more than just the general volume trends.
And if you could give a number for how Europe did in the quarter that would be helpful.
The overall European volumes were down less than 1% so I don't know 0.8% something like that.
That's -- the 2 big areas that hurt us the most probably were Germany and France just because the weather in Germany as well as some of the things -- I don't think we were directly impacted or specifically impacted by the beer issue in France you just mentioned although we -- there was somewhat of an impact.
But it's even softer and [indiscernible] relatively flat if not down slightly in France as well.
So I think it's Germany and France.
And as we said looking forward if we're able to get some of this weather normalized and they're not underwater in Central Europe and wearing parkas in May like they were in Germany we feel okay about where we stand today.
Our next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Heading into the year demand-supply was pretty tight in Europe on the bev can side and things are still pretty tight I would imagine and you had some aspirations of getting some incremental pricing in 2014.
In light of the recent pullback on demand and one of your competitors adding capacity in the U.K.
region is that a -- is there some concern on the pricing front on 2014? Or should we see some upward trajectory from here? Well as I said earlier about our cost-out and value-in initiatives we are not planning on it.
It is always challenging.
It's too early to say what we're going to be able to achieve but we are -- we have not been adding any capacity ourselves.
And we are focusing on trying to recover some of those costs that we've mentioned before but it's too early to predict victory.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then can you give us a little preview on CapEx guidance for 2014? And should we expect free cash flow getting back to that $500 million range for next year? Well this is Scott.
As always on CapEx it's dependent on what kind of good growth opportunities we see around the world.
But with the world being a bit slower I would see CapEx trending down meaningfully in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do you have a number for us? Or is it still...
No not yet because it's really early.
So we're still expecting to spend -- remember we've got this year we had $100 million of carry-in capital to this year so it's unusually high.
And I don't think we'll have that much carry-in capital into next year because most of the capital that we're spending will be concluded by this year.
And so I'd see it dropping by a fairly sizable number next year.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then John I think in the past you have mentioned that when the macro environment does slow down that's been a pretty good time for you to get more active on the M&amp;A front.
Have you seen now that pipeline improve a bit here? Yes well we -- as always we have a variety of conversations going on.
And as you know it's been a cornerstone of how we've created value over the long term.
And that hasn't changed at all.
I don't think we have anything to report at this time however but you just never know.
You always -- my predecessor always said you need motive and opportunity.
And I think we have the motive we're just making sure the opportunity is right.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
First I missed a few sets of numbers I think in here but did you give us what your volumes were like in Europe and in Brazil specifically...
In Europe they were down less than 1% in the quarter.
And in Brazil they were up double digits high.
It was very strong.
Remember we had capacity that came online this year with our new plant.
And we'll have another new -- or a new line coming on in the fourth quarter of this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
As we look at your performance here in North America in beverage cans and we look to your performance in Europe in beverage cans you've been a bit below the market in Europe and a good chunk below the market here in North America.
While I do recognize there's been some customer shift back and forth but maybe more specifically over the last couple of years you've seemingly had to take a disproportionate amount of the capacity out in North America or maybe not grow as fast as some of the other folks in Europe.
Is there anything that's changed in the competitive landscape that maybe has put you at a bit of a disadvantage whether it's how you're going to market with pricing or whether it's what-have-you that may account for that? And how might that or can that change going forward I mean? Or is it just simply a position of doing what your customers or your set mix is? Well let me try and tackle that.
It -- because I think there are 2 answers for each -- there's a different answer for each of the regions.
In North America we've been trying to take a very disciplined approach as the market leader.
And we've been putting our money where our mouth is in terms of capacity.
I do think that if you separate this onetime item that we lost last year on an apples-to-apples basis we're right there with everything else.
And in fact we're probably even a little bit ahead because of the specialty growth.
So I wouldn't read into that too much.
And I think it really was a onetime item.
And when you look into Europe I would -- I certainly wouldn't agree with over the last couple of years anything has been happening that has disadvantaged us.
It's really been over the last 6 months and it has to do with weather and geographic footprint.
And everyone knows that Western and Northwest Europe in particular have been much more heavily hit than Southern Europe and Eastern Europe.
And so when you look country by country and category by category where we were off slightly relative to the market had to do with the geographic proximity.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
Last question I had is you spoke about getting back to in the corridor of your traditional earnings growth rates in 2014.
With some of these factors weather now seemingly getting better along with your comments earlier about better 12-ounce and some of these other factors seeming to improve here in the back half of the year is it feasible that you could get back to 10% to 15% earnings growth per quarter the back half of this year? I think it's too early to say.
Certainly what we've told in guidance was we said the full year '13 will be higher than the full year '14.
And if you look we're down in the first half of '13 versus first half of '12.
So by definition we have to be up in the second half of '13.
I think it -- we feel good about the efforts that we can control.
It really is a volume game.
And we feel okay right now but you know how volatile the weather has been here in North America and in Europe.
And so I know that probably doesn't directly answer your question but that's where we are.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> John one of your competitors this morning talked about a mix shift toward can that tends to occur whenever economies weakened as they have recently.
Have you seen any evidence of such a shift recently? Or would you expect one in the developed markets? Well I think on the beer side it hasn't -- over the last 5 years I think beer cans as a share of the package mix in the beer category has gone from call it 47% to 53%.
So we've actually seen some relative health on cans.
I do think you're seeing a resurgence on cans particularly on the beer side.
Think about all of the activity that's been going on on the craft side of the market and you're even starting to see them in the on-premise.
And so I think that is constructive.
I do think it has more to do with where the customers are pointing to and a little bit less to do with the overall economies because what I would tell you is it has to do in part with what the pricing strategy of the beer makers is as well.
And over the last few years on the value side of beer they've been pushing price up more than they have on the premium side.
Research Division</strong> No that's helpful.
And just one on the mix the mix in Brazil.
Have you seen any recent trends there in terms of a continued mix shift toward cans and away from returnable bottles? A little bit yes.
It's -- there's not that many one-way bottles down in Brazil.
It's largely returnable.
And we again the share is a package mix over the last couple of months I don't think we've seen wholesale change.
But certainly over the last 5 years that's one of the big drivers of the beverage can in Brazil and now it's up in the upper 30s.
And hopefully as we go into 2014 with the World Cup and the other things hopefully it will start with a 4 but it's premature to declare that.
But we have been seeing good growth in the beverage can relative to overall industry beer growth.
Research Division</strong> And one last one.
Any notable change in the competitive dynamics in China as of late? I know you talked about the supply-demand imbalance getting a bit better in the second quarter.
Yes no nothing to update.
The market continues to grow strongly.
I think the balance some of this excess capacity is being soaked in.
I do think that we haven't seen any -- certainly any more downside relative to prices but we haven't yet seen any upside relative to pricing either.
Our next question comes from the line of Al Kalibi (sic) [Kabili] with Macquarie.
I guess John a question on the European cost saves.
And I know most of this is really in '14.
But incrementally what's the opportunity to ramp that up a little bit more in the -- I mean the back half of '13? Well the biggest issue I think it has to do is things happen more slowly in Europe because of the works councils and because of the union and how you deal with the various people component of it and where to do it the right way.
And that just takes time.
So that's probably the biggest reason is that [ph] and combined with some of the other cost initiatives.
As Scott had mentioned in the plants we're doing a very good job and it's been offsetting some of the softness in Northwest Europe from a volume perspective.
But I think that's the main reason.
The reason why I just said on the labor side is why we don't expect to see a tremendous amount of upside in the second half of '13.
And then secondly you mentioned on the aerospace side the sequestration and the impact on new awards.
Are you seeing any impact on the pace of your backlog burn at this point? And what do you see the risk to the current backlog that you have? I think our current backlog is pretty solid right now.
And in fact we were just speaking about that the other day.
I think the biggest issue is just with the government.
There's 2 things going on: Number one the overall budgets are declining.
And I won't go into the details here but if you're a program of record you're relatively solid.
And most if not all of our backlog is programs of record which is good.
I think in terms of new awards in terms of new initiatives those are the things that are a bit slower.
And it's slower because number one the government has less money so they need to figure out efficiencies to find money to fund those.
But then number two because of the short-term nature of sequestration and the furloughing of employees people who had been working 40 50 60 hours a week to try and process some of this stuff are now working 25 to 35 hours a week and so there's just not as -- it just takes longer to get things through the system.
Okay.
And then along those lines you mentioned the small international award that you recently booked.
And it's pretty small but I guess it's notable because that's something you've talked about looking to do is expand internationally on the aerospace side.
And just what's the outlook there? Well we actually are bidding on more international opportunities than we ever have in the history of Ball aerospace right now.
They have to come to fruition but it's really based upon some of the nonclassified technologies that we have developed in that business and the global need for some of those things first.
So for example this environmental satellite we're building for the South Koreans was based on some things we've done for the U.S.
government over here.
And as we look in other places of the world we think there's opportunities for things like that in terms of environmental monitoring and other technologies.
Okay.
And then final question is just the Vietnam JV that I know is small but I wanted to just get an update there and if you see that as a springboard to further expand into Southeast Asia.
Yes well it's been up and running a little over a year now and it's making good progress.
We were there a couple of weeks ago.
And I think it's an excellent facility.
And if any of you are ever in Southeast Asia we'd be happy to give you a tour of it.
I do think that it's not just a Vietnamese joint venture but it's more as part of a regional strategy.
We have an interest in one of our partners in Thailand as well.
And so that whole region when you look at a map it's not just one country versus another country it's a regional perspective.
And so yes there could be opportunities going forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> In the food can business you referenced high-single-digit growth.
And I'm wondering if there are specific categories in which you're doing well if you had kind of a preliminary view on the pack season.
And then you -- there's a competitor that's discussed maybe some food can business being shifted from 3Q to 4Q because of a potentially later pack or delayed pack and I'm just wondering if you had any view on that in the back half of the year.
Yes the -- our numbers were up high to mid single digits in the quarter.
And we feel pretty good about where the pack is at now.
And we're getting more normalized weather.
The Southeast in the last couple of years has been just horrendous and this year it's been more stabilized.
But I would agree with the comment in terms of pushing more into the fourth quarter from the third quarter: We expect third quarter to be solid but there's probably more that will benefit us in the fourth quarter of this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just shifting gears to the aerospace side.
You discussed some of the headwinds with sequestration.
And I guess earnings in the segment were kind of flattish sequentially with the first quarter.
I'm wondering as we look forward to 3Q 4Q is that kind of $19 million type run rate a decent estimate for 3Q 4Q? Or could we see a little bit more of a pickup? Or is it kind of too soon to tell? I think to answer to your question it's probably a decent run rate.
We had talked on prior calls that in 2012 we had a number of close-outs on some programs that we had executed very well on.
And that provided some upside in 2012.
With the startup of many of these new programs in 2013 these are 3- 4- 5-year contracts and so as -- the way we do it as we reduce the risk if you will the execution risk in those the accruals change.
And so you usually make more profits in the back end of programs if you're doing well as opposed to the front end.
And so the fundamentals of the business in '13 are quite good.
But really where you're going to see that profitability assuming we're actually executing it really starts to ramp up in '14 and '15 relative to the current run rate.
Our next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to the next question.
[Operator Instructions] We do have a follow-up question from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> 2 strategy questions or bigger picture questions.
First in aerosol the company's technology bed if you will is on impact-extruded aluminum.
And thus far that's been a good place to be given your performance from what we could see in Aerocan.
Are there other technologies that are viable in the aluminum aerosol can market that you need to be mindful of that maybe could start to pick up share? Would you have the ability to adopt other technologies to make aluminum aerosol cans in quick order if you needed to? The short answer to that George is we have a variety of technologies we've been working on on the aluminum aerosol side even the steel aerosol side that we feel very confident that they have some interesting developments.
It's premature to talk about those but as we move forward I think you're going to see some things where it's leveraging our D&amp;I capabilities in the aerosol sector.
And it -- we're excited about the promise of that.
As you know we're already doing that in terms of the Alumi-Tek bottle with MillerCoors.
And we have some other interesting things.
And then even on the impact-extruded side is we've talked about having our ReAl slugs which is a much lighter-weight slug by utilizing some of our technology that we've morphed from our beverage can business.
So we've got a variety of things that we have been actively looking at.
Some are commercialized right now and others could be commercialized in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Would it be fair to say that doing a D&amp;I aluminum aerosol can is probably a couple of years away? Next month? I mean how would you ballpark it for us if you could? If you could.
Well it's -- D&amp;I aerosol is challenging just because the pressure is held in aerosol and you need to make sure that the well wall thickness will withstand that.
But that's one of the areas we're working on but it is premature to say when it might be out.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
The other question I had is around return and EVA.
And obviously Ball Corp.
going back to the 1990s has been really a pioneer on EVA.
It's worked very very well for you.
And I was looking on my model and historically the big jumps-up for you have come with things like a Reynolds like Schmalbach.
It's not been the only thing but it's been where you've gotten the outsized pickups in economic profit.
As we sit here and think about the next 2 to 3 years for Ball Corp.
should we expect that more of your economic profit improvement which I would imagine you think you will improve from these levels will come from what you do with the balance sheet in terms of capital allocation buying back stock versus other source of capital? Or do you think that the investments that you've made and could make would be the bigger driver of economic profit say between end of '13 and say of '15 or '16 in terms of time frame? Well first I mean EVA is still the big driver of how we decide in what to invest and how to invest.
And I think it's a combination of the things that you talked about.
It's going to be the capital allocation that we've done in the past; the returning -- absent other opportunities returning a lot of cash to shareholders.
We feel real good about the EVA returns of the investments that we've been making.
Even in -- and if you'd look at the North American beverage business that shrunk this year their EVA returns are getting better.
And so the returns that we're getting on those incremental investments have been very attractive.
So I think it's a combination of continued focus on EVA and making sure that we're getting the returns.
As John mentioned acquisitions have always been part of our strategy and that's -- that continues to be.
And that's allocating capital in a balanced way and in a disciplined way that we've done in the past and we'll continue to do in the future.
Research Division</strong> So you think your investment will be able to at least keep up with the buyback component of EVA.
Would that be fair if we look out the next 3 years? Its opportunity depends -- this is the way I'd look -- I'd think about it: There's kind of 3 different buckets of EVA.
It's number one what you have right now.
And what we're trying to do is improve the profitability and minimize the investment there.
And that generates excess EVA dollars.
Number two in this -- the number two and number three both get to capital deployment but number two is what Scott said it's more the expanding into new geographies expanding into new products it's the specialty container that we've talked about that generate returns in excess of that capital.
So you're putting more capital to work.
And then the last but not least are kind of the big hitters as you described that aren't lost on us which are putting an even greater amount of capital to work through acquisition.
And the only thing you really need to be focusing there on is making damn sure that the capital you're putting to work there can generate that excess return.
So we think about it in those 3 buckets.
So what are we doing right now in terms of improving our business? What are we using our cash flow for and is it returning it and reducing the investment to our shareholders? Or is it investing in new internal growth opportunities or is it on the M&amp;A side? Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on this guys and I promise I will give it up here.
Scott you said your EVA returns if I heard you correctly in North America are up this year.
Did I hear that correctly? And does that include even the cost or the cash flow outlay for integration? The cash flow outlay for -- you're talking about restructuring costs? Research Division</strong> Well I mean the -- yes exactly.
Restructuring costs get capitalized so you still have to pay for those over time.
Research Division</strong> Exactly.
So what's -- even including that in your EVA calculation you were up in terms of EVA returns in North American beverage.
Yes that's correct.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Yes just a few cleanups.
First of all the aluminum storage situation has been in the news a lot the last week.
Anything new there from your perspective? As people know there was a big article in the New York Times on Sunday about the issues on metal premiums and LME and it's been widely discussed.
And we do know that there were some governmental hearings on Tuesday.
I probably shouldn't comment on them because I wasn't purposefully there.
But there has been issues there and I do think it's getting more focus to make sure that there's a level playing field around how metal is purchased on a global -- aluminum is purchase on a global basis.
So that's probably all I should say.
Scott anything...
No.
As I said they -- we're -- we've been involved in those conversations because we think that there are -- better transparency around how the warehouses work will be beneficial to the industry and to -- ultimately to consumers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question that 8% volume gain in food and household in the second quarter any sense of what you would expect there for the full year? We said for the full year we'll be up slightly but it's not going to be at that kind of a pace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally any thoughts on specialty can margins in North America and Europe and where you see those moving over time? Well I think we talked about this on the call last time.
We haven't seen any changes up or down relative to them.
As the specialty canned -- can's market size gets bigger it's logical to think from an economic perspective it may put some downward pressure on volumes.
But from an overall profit pool perspective I think it will continue to grow.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final you guys didn't make this but there's a "bow tie can" that was out there.
Do you have any sense of like what that actually did for volume for the brewer involved? As just one example of...
We'd be speculating if we said anything.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned several times on the call that the volumes thus far in July are tracking better and improved weather is really the key reason.
So in places like North America and Europe where the improvement in the weather seems most obvious can you just actually tell us how your volumes are tracking on the beverage side thus far in July? Well I think nothing else to add.
You just summarized it.
I think particularly in North America and Europe they are more normalized or becoming more normalized which means we weren't seeing those huge -- the month of June was very soft from a North American perspective.
I don't have the numbers in front of me from an industry perspective but they were in excess I believe of the 5.5-or-so percent decline for the quarter.
And so what we've seen is more moderation of that.
I would not say it's anything to go home and get overly excited about however.
All we're saying is they've returned to more historical normalcy.
Research Division</strong> Got it John.
And then I know you're running pretty full but where do you see utilization rates for the market in China as a whole? And where do you think they need to go to before pricing power begins to shift back to the suppliers? Well they're somewhere in the 80s right now.
And it depends by in the -- upon region and it depends on what you assume that -- the actual output versus the rated output of some of these new competitors in there.
I do think you look at any in the -- any in -- region in our industry and the minute you can start to get to the upper 80s or lower 90s that's when you start to see tightness in the market because there is -- as you all know there is a seasonality effect.
Research Division</strong> Right.
That's make sense.
And just sort of a last quick one from me: In North America where it's-- the standard 12-ounce can is going down pretty significantly for you in '13 and specialty continue to go where do you see the mix between the 12-ounce specialty can as you end 2013? Probably in the low 20s specialty as a percent of total mix.
And we do have a follow-up question from the line of Philip Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just one very quick follow-up just around this normalization of volumes.
If I look at Europe in the third quarter of last year if I have this correct Scott you guys were up almost 10% in European beverage so I just want to kind of clarify what kind of normalization would mean for you guys in Europe against that type of a comp.
Well I think what we're talking about normalized volumes is that low- to mid-single-digit growth rates.
Kind of that 2% to 5% growth rate would be normalized.
Research Division</strong> Okay so you would -- you would see the ability to do that in the third quarter despite the comps.
Yes.
Yes.
We should be more -- it again all depends on weather.
But we should be more in line with the market if weather is normalized.
And then at -- I don't have last year's numbers in front of us.
The 10% seems high.
It seems high.
I thought it was low to mid single digits the third quarter last year.
But perhaps you can give Ann Scott a call and clarify that.
In Q2 of last year we were up just a couple percent so I -- you might have a bad number there.
And there seems to be no further questions at this time sir.
Okay great.
Well thanks Ciglund.
And thank you everyone.
I just want to remind everyone that Ball we will be hosting at Investor Day and Management Briefing in Midtown Manhattan on October 2 and 3.
Analysts and institutional investors should contact Ann Scott for an invitation.
We thank you for participating on today's call.
And we're looking forward to seeing you all in early October and then on the call at the end of October.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Ball Corporation's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder the call is being recorded Thursday October 24 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Hayes Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer.
Please proceed.
Thank you James and good morning everyone.
This is Ball Corporation's conference call regarding the company's third quarter 2013 results.
The information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Some factors that could cause the results or outcomes to differ are in the company's latest 10-K and in other company SEC filings as well as company news releases.
If you do not already have our earnings release it's available on our website at ball.com.
Information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
It was great seeing many of you in New York earlier this month at our investor field trip.
We hope that you walked away with a better sense of who we are and more importantly where we're going.
A special thanks to Ann Scott for organizing a great event.
Now joining me on the call this morning is Scott Morrison Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'll provide a brief overview of our company's performance Scott will discuss financial and global packaging metrics and then I'll finish it up with comments out of our aerospace business and the outlook for the remainder of 2013.
Our third quarter results came in ahead of expectations excluding the impact of a provision for customer receivable which Scott will speak to in a moment.
Solid operating performance across our various business units a strong year-over-year vegetable pack in North America and a normalization of volumes in our global beverage business where volumes were up across all regions save for the previously announced loss of some 12-ounce business in North America all contributed to stronger performance as we expected.
As we have discussed previously we knew that we had headwinds entering 2013.
And while those headwinds in the first half of the year were quite frankly stronger than anticipated the hard work and effort by all here at Ball have positioned us for a more constructive second half of 2013 and has created some tailwind for us as we enter 2014.
As we cycle into the fourth quarter and more importantly into '14 the company is well positioned from a capacity utilization product mix and earnings and cash generation perspective.
During the quarter we continue to aggressively manage manufacturing output for 12-ounce capacity in North America with the rationalization of our 12-ounce capacity in Milwaukee Wisconsin.
We also improved our fixed cost leverage in our European segment as we progress through the initial cost-out initiatives related to the headcount reductions and the announced closure of our Ratingen Germany administrative office relocation.
In Brazil we've completed the installation of a second line in our Alagoinhas beverage can manufacturing plant which sets us up nicely for a double summer as we prepare to meet our customers' needs in the summer down here in Brazil in 2014 as well as the 2014 World Cup.
In Asia we optimized our footprint and improved our cost structure there with the relocation of our Shenzhen beverage can plant into our existing Foshan plant.
We also completed the installation of another production line in our Mexican impact-extruded facility and we expect continued growth in this region during 2014.
Lastly in the quarter we've completed the conversion of the standard can line to specialty can production in North America.
We are seeing the benefits of our renewed efforts to manage our cost structure and drive further EVA dollar growth.
In fact since 2010 we've improved our EVA dollars generated as defined in our 10-K from $110 million to more than approximately $160 million today.
And with that I'll turn it over to Scott for a review of our third quarter numbers.
Scott? Thanks John.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in the third quarter were $1 versus last year's $0.90.
In addition the company recorded an after-tax charge totaling approximately $32 million primarily related to a provision for our customer receivable.
Due to the confidential nature of the customer situation we are unable to talk about it in great detail here but will provide more details in the 10-Q.
Our metal beverage Americas and Asia segment comparable earnings were down roughly $7 million year-over-year.
Cost containment program excellent operating performance at the plant level and double-digit specialty can growth in the Americas nearly offset segment volumes being down mid-single digits in the quarter due to a loss of the 12-ounce business in North America that has been well documented.
Brazil volumes were up strongly again year-over-year and our China volumes were up mid-single digits.
Across the segment we are running at high-asset utilization rates and the recently installed second line at our Alagoinhas Brazil facility is online and ramping up to meet our customer's new brewery located just down the road.
European segment profit increased in the quarter in the mid-upper-single digit volume growth brought about by better weather conditions coupled with reduced labor and input cost both of which continue to be addressed aggressively.
In the food and household segment earnings were higher due to better volumes our recently acquired Mexico plant and good performance in our steel and aluminum aerosol business.
Segment volume increased nearly 10% in the quarter as a result of the favorable North American seasonal fruit and vegetable pack and solid aerosol container demand.
Transitioning from operations during the quarter our corporate undistributed cost and the effective tax rate were in line with expectations and year-to-date.
We have repurchased of net $268 million of our stock.
Net balance sheet debt at the end of the quarter was approximately $3.35 billion.
Credit quality and liquidity of the company remains solid with comparable EBIT-to-interest coverage at 4.7x and net debt to comparable EBITDA at 2.9x.
Committed credit and available liquidity at the end of the quarter was an excess of $1 billion.
Given our seasonality and strong free cash flow we continue to anticipate year-end net debt level to be in the range of $3.2 billion.
For a complete summary of the third quarter results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis please refer to the notes section of today's earnings release.
Moving on to financial metrics for the full year 2013 really no changes here.
Interest expense will be in the range of $183 million the full year effective tax rate on comparable earnings is expected to be approximately 27%.
We're still anticipating full year corporate expense to be approximately $73 million.
CapEx will come in in the range of $400 million and free cash flow should be in the range of $450 million.
And the majority of our free cash flow is expected to be returned to shareholders via share repurchases and dividends.
With that I'll turn it back to you John.
Thanks Scott.
Our aerospace business continued to perform well in the quarter with solid execution on existing programs.
During this quarter the Ball-built WISE spacecraft was roused from a 2-year hibernation to resume its near-Earth asteroid hunting mission.
We also delivered the STPSat-3 satellite for the U.S.
Air Force Operationally Responsive Space-3 mission and contracted backlog at the quarter end was $942 million down just slightly from the previous quarter.
Despite lingering effects of sequestration and the recent U.S.
government shutdown we continue to see operationally -- opportunities excuse me both domestically and internationally to help grow our aerospace business.
Now looking out across our company today.
Our businesses are leveraging new processes and systems our world-class employee base and their EVA mindset to drive cost-out initiatives and execution on key programs and projects.
We have invested prudently in our businesses for incremental EVA dollar growth whether it has been specialty growth in North America geographic growth in Latin and South America or cost-out initiatives in Europe and Asia which we expect to generate positive returns in 2014 and beyond.
In Europe beverage we are on track to get back to our operating margins consistent with the 2010 2011 period by 2015.
And in our global food and household products packaging business we are ramping up aluminum aerosol production and focusing on maximizing the returns across our steel product lines.
In summary we expect continued strong free cash flow and full year 2013 comparable results to exceed full year 2012 comparable diluted earnings per share.
Given our operational momentum and reduced future CapEx target we expect 2014 to be more consistent with our historical earnings per share growth goal of 10% to 15% and higher free cash flow generation.
And with that James we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from the line of Philip Gresh from JP Morgan Asset Management.
Research Division</strong> First question for you it sounds like the volumes are pretty good in Europe.
I was bouncing between calls but I think you said up mid- to high-single digits.
I would just to get a little bit more color just kind of regionally or by country or whatever additional color you could give about your volume performance.
Certainly.
As you know I think on our second quarter call we said -- we started to see at the beginning of July some more normalized weather patterns and the good weather led to an increase in fillings in Europe.
For us I think it was largely driven by the Benelux region by France by U.K.
even Poland and to a lesser extent Germany.
And so those as you all know is the sweet spot of where we operate.
So I think we were just the beneficiaries of much more normalized weather.
And as we said across Europe for us it was mid- to upper-single digit kind of 7 percent-ish range.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
Second question on Europe there has been so much out around this aluminum premiums issue.
I'm just wondering if you think about like the past few years and the run-ups in those premiums do you have any sense that you could give us about -- or quantification you could give us as to just how much of a headwind that's been for you over time? Sure.
Phil this is Scott.
Last year it cost us probably around EUR 4 million.
It started to ramp up in the back half of the year last year.
This year kind of a full year it's probably going to be closer to EUR 8 million or EUR 9 million.
They've just started to moderate recently.
But with inventories you know we have to flush inventories through the system we really didn't get any benefit of that yet.
But that's kind of the magnitude of the cost that's hit us in the past year -- 1.5 years.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
And then just last question curious how you're feeling about China today.
Where are we kind of on the supply/demand curve heading into 2014? How are you thinking about pricing for next year? It seems like maybe flat to down at best but I just want to get your thoughts here.
Yes.
I think you're spot on.
Not much has changed from our point of view about China.
And what I mean by that is number one we are -- do continue to see strong growth in volumes.
Number two there still is a fair amount of excess capacity.
I think either some of the players have slowed down some of their growth plans but others have continued on.
And so from a pricing perspective it's not getting any better as we sit here today.
I don't think it's getting materially worse but it's certainly not getting better.
And so until some of this capacity is better utilized with growth in the market I think our expectation is that we're not going to have much upward mobility in pricing.
Our next question is from the line of George Staphos from Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Alax Wang sitting in for George.
First can you discuss maybe what the pace of delayering in Europe and how that's going for you guys? I'm sorry you said the pace of what in Europe? Research Division</strong> Delayering? Delayering? Delayering? Well if you're talking about the pace of our cost I think there's really -- we're just continuing to move down that continuum of taking cost out.
We said on the second quarter it's going to take some time because you have to have the various discussions with work [ph] councils and unions.
And we announced the closure of our Ratingen Germany administration facility but that won't close until the first quarter or so of 2014.
And so while we've been taking some short-term measures to take cost out and our guys have been doing -- our folks have been doing a great job of that this is more of an 18-month type of play.
And as we said it's really the second half of 2014 and going into 2015 when we really will start to see the benefits of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In terms of the timing wise everything is to your expectations at present? We are on track.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just second question.
Can you discuss what you're seeing or maybe hearing from customers about marketing programs and trends in North America beverage particularly in CSD? Yes.
We did see some -- particularly around the Labor Day weekend we did see some greater than recent normal promotional activity by the soft drink customers as well as some even some of the beer customers.
There have been I think both on the beer and the CSD side they continue to focus on the revenue line.
But I also -- we also see that they are much more constructive about the volume relative to the price increases.
And their price increases I think have been a little bit more moderate over the past few months as they go into 2014.
I do know in both of those segments new products are very important.
I think the biggest question on the soft drink side is not how cans are doing but rather why are consumers drinking less CSD and what are they drinking instead? And I think the soft drink companies are very focused on that whether it's natural low-calorie sweeteners or new products that help respond to that new channel opportunities.
So I think we are seeing a slightly more constructive end market.
But having said that it's still is -- the growth is anemic at best.
And we need to -- if there's one thing that we are focused on particularly on the soft drink side I'm less concerned about beer but we're very much focused on trying to make sure that we understand what's going on from the soft drink perspective.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Manuel from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
First could you -- as we think about what the free cash flow might look like next year and parts of working capital -- I'm sorry CapEx heading into next year where are you at early thinking with respect to those and any big projects or things that may spill over into next year? Well we had -- Chris this is Scott.
We had about $100 million of carrying capital this year so I would expect -- we're spending in a pretty decent clip this year and so I would expect to have less carryover capital into 2014.
So I think capital will come down.
There's still some growth projects that we're evaluating that would be in that number.
But I think overall CapEx should start to trend down and free cash flow will trend up.
We have some more things on the working capital front that we think will benefit us next year.
And so we feel pretty good about the growth in the free cash flow for 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
So when you think about weak metal in a different way when you think about utilization levels globally and you put in a bunch of capacity in China you've got -- some still going in in Brazil as you have those now all fully contributing or I guess the plants down in Brazil is still ramping up and coming together.
But where do you think you'll be at utilization? Do you have pockets where -- including I guess Vietnam and there too you did some work there where do you think you'll end up being for utilization? Are you running -- going to be running tight over the next year or 2 that those would be areas you might be looking at for capacity? How would we kind of think about where you'd be targeting? Yes.
I think across the board in every region in which we participate we're running pretty tight relative to capacity.
Certainly with the closure of Milwaukee that was -- and you all know that we've been very assertive in managing our supply and demand there.
That really depends on what the market or growth or lack thereof occurs in 2014.
But we're tight as we speak in North America and Europe we're very tight.
And I do think that over the next 18 months our #1 priority is the cost-out.
But as we start to think about going into 2015 we have to think about capacity because we are getting very tight there.
China we really haven't added all that much capacity.
We've moved the facility from Shenzhen up into Foshan but that wasn't necessarily net-net any significant increase in capacity.
So we're running very tight there.
You mentioned Vietnam I think all of Southeast Asia I think there's probably some more opportunity but we're going to be balanced around that.
And then in Brazil as you rightly pointed out the second line in Alagoinhas is just getting started up.
So I don't see any new capacity going into Brazil.
I think some of the growth projects Scott were talking about we haven't finalized them right now but it's looking at geography and it's looking at new products.
I think those are the 2 big areas when you think about where it could come from.
LLC Research Division</strong> Last question was when I looked at some of the language in your press release you talked about investing in the extruded aluminum are you referring to what you're doing down in Latin America or are there thoughts for additional potential lines either in North America or Europe there? No.
I think our intent was -- that was talking about Latin America.
Mexico specifically.
Our next question is from the line of Usha Guntupalli from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A quick question.
First could you provide any early read on fourth quarter volumes across regions? I think it's premature to talk about fourth quarter volumes.
I will say the weather continues to moderate and we haven't seen any meaningful deviations from the trend lines we saw in the July August September.
But as you know the fourth quarter is seasonally slow.
The only deviation I'll point out from that is probably in the food can business where we thought a quarter ago that we would get some -- it would pushed -- some of the opportunity would be pushed into the fourth quarter which it doesn't look like it will.
You also -- we had a very strong fourth quarter in that segment in the third quarter.
And so I think while we thought some of that maybe pushed to the fourth I think it stayed in the third.
But absent that the volume trends are -- particularly in the beverage side I was referring to is nothing inconsistent with what we'd expect.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And looking at the next 12 to 18 months could you remind us about the major cost savings that you expect to achieve across segments? Yes.
Very quickly in Europe we'll start there.
We talked about getting back to a more normalized margin structure which was -- if you look back in the 2010 2011 time frame it was 11% to 12%.
And we said over the 18 months we have a clear line of sight and we don't have to rely on net pricing to get there although we are also focused on net pricing.
I think in North America beverage our folks has done a very good job in managing a difficult situation not only with the losses in 12-ounce business but also with the very tough macroeconomic environment relative to the beverage can demand here in North America.
And so we continue to take cost out.
And I think the Milwaukee Wisconsin rationalization is a good example of that.
I think our food and household products business here in North America over the next 12 to 18 months is very much focused on it.
As we start to cycle into end of 2015 when we'll have a lost of some business there.
But our guys are very -- our folks are very much on top of that.
And as we sit here today I think our folks are up for the challenge no doubt.
Down in Brazil it's not so much about a cost-out as it is managing and optimizing the supply/demand relative to what we expect to be a very strong year next year.
Because as I mentioned the summer months are really October through March and then they have the World Cup in June and July.
And then in Asia we have to be low-cost there.
And I think we've proven over time that we are low cost and what we're trying to do is widen the gap relative to particularly the local competitors there because of our global know-how and global expertise.
So that's just a quick snapshot of the various levers that we're trying to pull from a cost perspective.
Our next question is from the line of James Armstrong from Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> My first question is on the food can segment.
And I know this is really early days but could you update us on any progress you've made to offset the volume being lost in 2015? Well the short answer is nothing material that we can add at this time.
We had an Investor Day that was webcast a few weeks ago if not close to a month ago and we talked in a slightly more granular way about -- we have half a dozen or so various discrete items that we are focused on from a project perspective and we expect to begin to execute on those in the fourth quarter.
But really more likely the first half of 2014.
This business remains with us throughout '14 so it's really '15.
We've got 15 months or so to manage it.
And I think our folks are very much in tune and focused on what needs to be done.
LLC</strong> Perfect.
And then switching gears.
In the aerospace segment have you seen any major impact from the government shutdown.
Also as sequestration hits the government aerospace contracts with potential for more could you give us a sense of what you are replacing those contracts with? Yes.
First in term -- we did see -- and we've seen this since sequestration kicked in in March.
We've seen a slowdown in decision-making at the government and with the complete shutdown for what 16 days or so it was everything just stopped.
And so that's why I inferred our backlog was down slightly but nothing fundamentally has changed.
I think just decision-making is taking a little bit longer.
I will say it's a bit frustrating that they just punted just a couple of months and so we're talking about the January-February time frame having a very similar set of discussion.
And that just puts timing of decision-making up in the air as well.
So that gives me little bit of concern.
But again as I said the fundamentals of what we do for the U.S.
government has not changed at all nor has the opportunity set.
We have however as we've talked in the past looked at other scenes [ph] of growth and revenues whether it's internationally or with some more commercial or commercially oriented opportunities.
And whether it's a Sentinel program which is done in a non-for-profit world that's not affiliated with the U.S.
government or the GEMS just contract we won in South Korea I think those are good examples of the types of things we're looking at and we continue to explore those opportunities.
And we do believe that over time we're going to win our fair share of those.
Our next question is from the line of Todd Wenning from MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> As you look across your various businesses which segment do you think has the most momentum in terms of EVA dollar generation going into 2014? That's a good question.
I think all -- to one degree or another our European folks have really rallied around the cost-out.
And given that that is in our control more than anything else we don't have to rely on weather we don't have to rely on external demand.
We see a clear line of sight there.
I think down in Brazil as well.
As I mentioned the 2 summers and -- actually as we sit here right now we're actually in Brazil we've brought our board down here this week and we see a lot of very good momentum.
And it's quite clear that a lot of the market share gains of cans relative to glass are not just temporary they're permanent.
And so we're feeling pretty good about Brazil.
In North America it really is a volume game there and so our folks have been doing a great job there.
But it's just -- it's too premature to predict what 2014 volumes will look like.
And I think the same with China relative to the volumes versus the price mix.
So it's really about Europe and Brazil I think have the greatest line of sight into EVA dollar generation.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then as more specialty can capacity is being added by the industry in North America and Europe have you seen the margins spread between standard and specialty contract in a meaningful way? No we haven't.
Any maturation curve of any new product you need to expect over time that it will rather gravitate more towards a mean.
But I think what we're trying to do is stay out ahead and have the flexibility for our customers.
So when we talk about specialty we're not just talking about one different can size we're talking about a wide variety.
In North America and/or in Europe we're making over 20 different sizes in each of those locations.
And so it allows us the flexibility to flip between sizes on behalf of our customers and I think they find there's value there -- in there for them as well.
Our next question is from the line of Joe Stivaletti from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering from a bigger picture perspective if you could talk about your appetite for acquisitions if that's something that you're spending much time on and what areas might be most likely? Well I think we're always spending a fair amount of time on acquisitions.
Many times nothing happens but that doesn't mean there isn't a lot of activity going on.
As we've talked about in the past it's -- given that we're a very disciplined EVA company sometimes it's challenging to compete against private equity and other buyers when interest rates are still low and liquidity is still free.
And I think we see that right now.
As we go forward though I think there has been great opportunities when we're disciplined and we're tenacious on one hand but also patient on the other hand to take advantage of situations when they arise when others are not as aggressive or cannot be aggressive from a financial or operational perspective.
So we haven't announced anything but don't assume we haven't been looking and haven't been actively pursuing opportunities.
And as we sit now liquidity is still relatively free.
And so it makes it a bit more challenging for us to compete.
But over the long term we've been able to make a lot of money for our shareholders and for our company by maintaining our discipline.
Research Division</strong> Are there any particular areas whether it's geographic areas product-type areas that would be -- that are sort of higher up on the priority list as you consider potential acquisitions? Well our pipeline I think is full of everything.
Everything from aerospace -- in January we made a very small acquisition and that's gone exceedingly well.
And so that was more trying to get into a new customer base.
On the packaging side whether it's geographic -- we've talked about the need for consolidation in China in particular.
I think over the longer term there could be opportunities there.
I think there's further rationalization opportunities in some of the more mature markets and mature product lines and we're focused on those.
But the one thing about acquisitions that we've realized is if you overpay for an acquisition in our markets it's always very very difficult to get it back.
And so that's why we've been maintaining a disciplined approach.
Our next question is from the line of Ghansham Punjabi from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just kind of judging by your customer comments whether it's branded or private label it seems like most of your customers were surprised at the rapid decline in diet soda over the summer and I guess that's been true for the full year as well.
John can you just sort of touch on how your portfolio is positioned against that trend in terms of how it falls in North American footprint compared to the average if you will for diet soda as a function of the category? And also are you seeing anything comparable in Europe as well in terms of declines in diet soda? No.
In fact let me start with Europe first.
No in fact the strength -- soft drink was stronger than beer at large [ph] as an industry and for Ball in Europe during the third quarter.
And I do think some of it has to do with market share gains and other things like that.
I think here in North America Ghansham there are several things going on.
The first half there was some weather issues.
There's also has been a pricing versus volume strategy I think of the soft drink industry generally speaking.
But then it is also a demographic and people are drinking less sodas and people are drinking less diet sodas.
Diet soda is skewed towards the older consumer and they've been drinking less.
And so I think our customers are acutely focused on that from a product formulation perspective as well as a channel perspective.
You're seeing the -- many more different types of SKUs out in the marketplaces our customers try and find the sweet spot relative to those various demographics.
And I -- we expect a fair amount of innovation from a category perspective in 2014 because those customers are very much in tune with the macro trends going on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of Europe was there anything unusual for the industry as to why volumes were so strong? Because again kind of reverting to -- for example Heineken yesterday they weren't exactly thrilled with the volume profile in Europe.
So what drove the strength in Europe for the industry during the third quarter you think? It's always difficult to tell just in the quarter but you're absolutely right.
I think it has to do with -- the can has been winning relative to other packaging substrates.
At the end of the day we continue to see slow but steady in Europe.
Slow but steady improvements in terms of cans as a share of the package mix and that adds incremental growth to any of the liquid growth.
So that's probably the biggest thing that's going on.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from the line of Al Kabili from Macquarie.
This is Danny Moran in for Al this morning.
Just one quick one for me.
Did you receive any benefit from lower European metal premiums in the quarter? And can you give us any visibility on any potential tailwinds in '14? No.
The premiums just started to moderate in the quarter.
And with the inventory that we are running through the system we saw really virtually no benefit of that.
It provides some potential upside next year if they keep moderating but we're not -- we haven't until we bake that in.
So no real impact in the third quarter.
We're still seeing higher cost than we were a year ago.
Our next question is from the line of Debbie Jones from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was curious if we could just go back to Europe one more time.
I was wondering if there's any specific regions or countries where you're seeing this outsize growth? And then you talked about getting back to 11% to 12% margin in the region by 2014 and '15 but it appears we're already there.
So I'm just wondering if this is sustainable in the near term? Yes.
First the answer is as I mentioned the volumes were up nicely in the third quarter relative to where our strength is which is really Germany Benelux France and the U.K.
I do think some of that was a bounce back because the first half of the year was very tough.
And as the summer came I think there was just the consumer unleashing if you will of getting out and taking advantage of the weather.
So I wouldn't read into that too much.
Overall as an industry we're a little bit stronger than our long-term expectations.
We've said 2% to 5% growth over the medium to long term in Europe in part driven by the market share gains I've talked about for cans relative to glass and others.
And that was kind of at the upper end.
The growth was at the upper end up that so I wouldn't read too much into it.
And then -- I'm sorry your second question I forget now.
Research Division</strong> I was just talking about the margin and whether or not that's going to be sustainable in the near term because I thought that we -- you had discussed at the Investor Day being more of a 2014 '15 event when we got back to 11% to 12% margins in that business.
Yes.
Well in the quarter I know we are above that.
But remember we're a seasonal business so we look at that on an annualized basis.
What really drove the improvement in the third quarter a little bit of cost out because there are folks who've been getting after that.
But as we said that's a longer-term issue.
It was really that we have strong volume.
And when you're in a volume-sensitive business those things help.
We had negative volumes in the first half of the year and I think that hurt.
But -- so I wouldn't read into that other than number one we are on track of what we said; and number two these cost-out programs really to hit in a more meaningful way the second half of 2014 and 2015.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess my follow-up question is on Brazil.
It appears the ramp-up is going as planned but industry trends appear to be subdued right now.
So I'm just trying to understand what gives you confidence that you will actually see a double summer materialize even with the World Cup coming.
Now what are your customers expecting? And I would expect that you guys are -- your volumes should outpace the industry given your new capacity but I just wanted to get your thoughts on that.
Yes I think in Brazil everyone I believe is very much looking forward to 2014.
There's going to be a tremendous amount of promotional activity here.
They're expecting millions of visitors which is going to help.
I think to your point we do have new capacity coming on.
And as you know this business is chunky if you will.
And when you have new capacity on you're usually the ones grabbing the incremental growth in the near term.
But I think over the long term our competitors have grabbed some growth in the past when we weren't putting capacity in and they were.
So I just think from our product perspective our customer portfolio perspective we're in pretty good shape for 2014 in Brazil.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you're happy with your mix of specialty cans in that region? Yes.
We definitely are.
Our next question is from the line of Anthony Pettinari from Citi.
This is actually William Mitchell filling in for Anthony.
Just one quick one for you guys.
How much of the volume growth in metal food and household products was due to the annual food pack? Well we -- as Scott said we were upper-single digits on volumes and the overall market was up about 3%.
It's interesting when you look at it what was strong and what was weak relative to the industry.
What was strong was the vegetable pack and pet food.
And what was weak was fruit and soups.
We do not participate in a large way in the fruit or the soups.
And so I think we just benefited from a customer mix that had a strong pack.
So what I'd say is all the growth we saw was related to the pack because that's the way the business works.
There are no further questions from the phone lines at this time.
Okay.
Well thank you very much for participating.
We look forward to what hopefully is a strong finish to 2013 and a more constructive 2014.
And we look forward to talking to you in January.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Ball Corporation Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday January 30 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Hayes Chairman President and CEO.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Reynaldo and good morning everyone.
This is Ball Corporation's conference call regarding the company's fourth quarter and full year 2013 results.
The information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Some factors that could cause results or outcomes to differ are in the company's latest 10-K and in other company SEC filings as well as company news releases.
If you do not already have our earnings release it's available on our website at ball.com.
Information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
Now joining me on the call today is Scott Morrison our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'll provide a brief overview of the company's performance Scott will discuss financial and global packaging metrics and then I'll finish up with comments on our aerospace business and the outlook for 2014.
Our fourth quarter results came in ahead of expectations and full year cash flow was right on track.
As we mentioned in our third quarter conference call we've seen momentum in our business from a financial perspective.
And as we move into 2014 we are well positioned from a capacity utilization and product mix perspective and we remain excited about our prospects.
Excellent cost management across our global packaging businesses; volume growth in Europe Brazil and our specialty can portfolio in North America; key aerospace program deliveries and our disciplined returns-oriented capital allocation strategy all drove results.
2013 was truly a tale of 2 halves.
The first half with stronger-than-anticipated market and economic headwinds and the second half filled with additional cost optimization project rollouts line startups and a return to more normalized demand for our food and beverage containers all helped contribute to this improved performance.
Now during the first -- fourth quarter we continued to see double-digit growth for specialty cans in the Americas.
We further improved our operating costs in our European segment with the administrative office relocation on track for completion at the end of the first quarter 2014.
We started up the second line in our Alagoinhas Brazil beverage can manufacturing plant which contributed favorably to results and is ready to meet our customers' needs for specialty cans in the 2014 World Cup.
We ramped up production at our existing Foshan China plant after the relocation of our Shenzhen equipment.
We continued down the path of further optimizing our steel food and household manufacturing footprint in North America.
And lastly in the quarter we announced the redemption of our 2019 senior notes that will lower interest expense in 2014 which Scott will discuss shortly.
Our focused efforts to identify pockets of growth and manage our cost structure are bearing fruit and will drive EVA dollar and cash flow generation in 2014 and beyond.
And with that I'll turn it over to Scott for a review of our full year and fourth quarter numbers.
Scott? Thanks John.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share for 2013 were $3.28 versus last year's $3.06.
And in the fourth quarter comparable diluted earnings per share were $0.86 versus last year's $0.64 a 34% increase.
For the full year the following factors contributed to improved results: excellent cost management across the businesses; a full year contribution from line 1 at the Alagoinhas Brazil plant and the Mexican extruded aluminum facility acquisition; a lower effective tax rate; and a lower share count.
Also FX translation related to European operations positively impacted full year 2013 EPS by $0.03.
Turning to free cash flow Ball generated $461 million in 2013.
Again we returned every free cash flow dollar and more to shareholders via net share buyback of approximately $400 million and dividends of more than $75 million.
Net balance sheet debt at the end of the year was approximately $3.2 billion.
Credit quality and liquidity of the company remains solid with a 2013 comparable EBIT-to-interest coverage of 4.8x and net debt-to-comparable EBITDA at 2.7x.
Cash was higher than usual at year end due to the planned redemption of the 2019 senior notes which was completed on January 10 2014.
Committed credit and available liquidity at year end was in excess of $1 billion.
For a complete summary of the full year and fourth quarter results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis please refer to the Notes section of today's earnings release.
Moving to operations our metal beverage Americas and Asia segment comparable earnings were down roughly $11 million for the full year and up $9 million in the fourth quarter.
Year-over-year benefit from the 12-ounce can and end plant rationalizations cost containment programs excellent operating performance at the plant level and continued double-digit specialty can growth in the Americas all contributed to better segment results.
In the quarter North America volumes continued to be sluggish for standard cans in the carbonated soft drink category.
However Brazil volumes were up double digits and our China volumes were flat as we continue to run at very high utilization rates and we continue to make disciplined decisions to not add capacity in an oversupplied market.
European segment profit was flat for the full year and increased almost $10 million in the fourth quarter due to mid-single-digit volume growth and initial benefits of reduced labor costs which will continue to flow through the segment in 2014 and into '15.
Food and household comparable segment earnings were flat in the quarter due to mid-single-digit volume declines for steel food cans in North America.
And for the full year earnings improved roughly $10 million due to the contribution from last year's December's Mexico extruded aluminum plant acquisition and excellent operating performance at our remaining global manufacturing locations.
As John mentioned earlier our global manufacturing operations are starting to be rewarded for their incredible efforts to improve their cost structure and cash flow.
Moving on to financial metrics for the full year 2014 interest expense will be in the range of $163 million.
Full year effective tax rate on comparable earnings is expected to be approximately 27% to 28%.
And for modeling purposes remember that the first quarter of 2013 benefited from 2 R&amp;D tax credits.
We expect full year corporate expense to be approximately $73 million.
CapEx should be in the range of $375 million and free cash flow will be in the range of $550 million.
And the majority of our free cash flow is expected to be returned to shareholders via share repurchases and dividends.
Yesterday the board increased the share repurchase authorization by 20 million shares so we have plenty of room and expect to buy around $500 million net shares in 2014.
With that I'll turn it back to you John.
Great.
Thanks Scott.
Our aerospace business performed very well in the quarter and full year against a difficult comp.
Solid execution on existing programs and some early deliveries drove performance quite an accomplishment given the disruptive U.S.
government circumstances in the first and second half of 2013.
Contracted backlog ended the year at $938 million versus $942 million a quarter earlier and approximately $1 billion at the end of 2012.
During the quarter the STPSat-3 satellite for the U.S.
Air Force was successfully launched from NASA's Wallops Flight Center.
The final 3 mirror segments for the James Webb Space Telescope arrived at Goddard Space Flight Center and the Ball-built GMI instrument arrived in Japan for the upcoming launch onboard NASA's Global Precipitation Measurement satellite.
The GPM satellite and GMI instruments are part of an international satellite constellation that will capture next-generation observations of rain and snow worldwide every 3 hours as well as 3D views of hurricanes and snowstorms aiding weather prediction.
With the recent 2-year budget agreement we are starting to see things in Washington have a bit more visibility than we have had in the past several years.
Our aerospace team is awaiting decisions later in 2014 on several key program awards so that they can move forward with what they do best providing affordable solutions for scientific discovery and national security.
Now looking out across our company today we will generate positive returns in 2014 on the growth capital invested in 2013.
In Europe beverage operating margins are improving as volume has recovered and our ongoing cost optimization programs will provide further upside.
In our global food and household products packaging business we are laser-focused on maximizing returns across our steel product lines and positioning our extruded aluminum manufacturing capabilities to serve our global customers' filling locations.
And most of all we are proud of our employees and their resolve to execute on projects and programs to improve our company's performance.
Truly exceptional.
Given our operational momentum excellent working capital management and reduced capital expenditures as Scott mentioned we expect 2014 free cash flow generation to be in the range of $550 million.
In summary we believe at this time we are on track to grow our EVA dollars and achieve our long-term diluted EPS growth goal of 10% to 15% in 2014 and beyond.
And with that Reynaldo we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Adam Josephson from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> John can you talk about what's driving the strength in European beverage volume? I know you said it was mid-single digits.
It was up I think 7% last quarter.
I know you're levered to beer in that segment and SABMiller recently talked about sluggish trends.
So just trying to understand what's happening in your business that might be different from what some of your customers might be experiencing.
Well I think a couple of things.
I do think the can is improving its share of the overall package mix not only with beer but even on the soft drinks side.
So that's one big factor.
I think the other one is geography.
And as you all know we're a bit more weighted to Western Europe obviously some presence in Eastern Europe but where we don't have presence really in much of Southern Europe.
And when you look as an industry where the growth has been coming from it's really been coming from France from Germany from the U.K.
from those places that I talked about in the third quarter.
The first half of the year recall the weather was very terrible and so volume was actually down in those regions.
But in the second half of the year it rebounded and it proved to be quite nice for us.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
In terms of EBIT this year John do you expect European beverage to be up more than Americas and Asia beverage? And can you quantify the potential benefit from the cost savings in Europe that you've discussed in '14 and going into '15? Yes well we've talked in prior conference calls about our -- we expect to get back to the 2010 2011 margin profile that we had in the European business.
We actually had a very good second half of the year but we still have opportunities as Scott had mentioned on the cost-out programs.
So as we go into 2014 I think with normalized volumes and that obviously we're sitting here in January so that's always a question mark but with normalized volume we continue to see progression in the EBIT growth of that business largely through the cost-out programs and just maintaining our share of the European beverage can market.
Research Division</strong> And just one last one just on the LME aluminum premium situation in Europe.
Can you just discuss your exposure to that issue? Yes the way we contract our business here we don't really have any exposure in North America.
And in Europe I think I mentioned on the third quarter call it had been a headwind for a while in Europe through '13.
And if it stays elevated at these levels we probably have some exposure to the tune of maybe EUR 5 million but more on the back half of the year if it stayed at these levels for all year.
And the next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question I had is regarding China now.
Obviously your operating rates are quite high because of what you've been doing with capacity relative to demand.
Is it possible from where you sit right now to discuss when you think the industry will be in a better state of balance say above 90%? I think George let's start with the demand side and then we'll go to the supply side.
On the demand side overall industry volume growth continues to grow strongly mid-single digits.
We did not participate this year because we're pretty tight.
And remember we had -- in the second half of the year we were moving some of our capacity from Shenzhen to Foshan and so we were a bit short relative to that.
And so we'll be able to capture our fair share of the growth this year.
On the supply side that's really the question mark.
And I think over the -- there continues to be some of the smaller players adding capacity in.
I think from a cost perspective we feel like we're in pretty good shape and so -- to ride out this wave.
But if -- to give you an exact time or date on when the industry may get to 90% I honestly think it's premature and I would be speculating on it.
I think we continue to expect the market to be growing mid-double digits.
I'm sorry.
I might have said mid-single digits in China growth I meant mid-double digits.
And so the volume side demand side is growing quite strong.
It's just when do people take a pause in terms of the capital growth so the supply can catch up with demand -- or demand can catch up with supply I mean.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But that in itself is saying something because the market is still growing mid-double digits and you're not sure when you get back to 90% not blaming you guys here nonetheless it tells you that there's still a fairly large amount of excess capacity to be absorbed.
You would agree with that correct? I would agree.
This time last year George we thought that there's arguably 25% overcapacity.
And as -- despite the mid-teens growth in 2013 I don't think that changed materially which by definition means some of the people kept adding capacity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Same question.
In Europe where would you say operating rates are for you or for the industry to the extent that you can comment? And then I had a follow-on on North America and I'll turn it over after that question.
I think for us we are sold out.
We are full.
And I think for the industry it's pretty full as well.
Obviously on a regional side you have pockets here and there.
And of course even we may have very small pockets depending on what the regional geographies are.
But overall I think the industry is reasonably tight and we certainly are tight.
Research Division</strong> The last question John in North America.
Is there a volume decline in standard cans in the next couple of years that would either on one hand create diseconomies for you in terms of managing the remaining 12-ounce demand in the market from your existing network of plants or one of the things you've been obviously doing is converting your 12-ounce to custom cans and that seems to be working well that to absorb whatever level of decline might happen in 12-ounce would then risk saturating the custom can market from capacity standpoint? I know there isn't perhaps a single number but how would you have us think about what the rates of decline might need to be to get to that point? Yes I think the answer to your question largely hinges on what happens with soft drink.
CSD has really been the softness in terms of not only the can business but I think the overall liquid consumption business.
And we have -- we expect to have continued declines on the CSD side.
I think 2014 is going to be real important to help answer that question because you're going to see natural sweeteners start to come out.
And the question is can the soft drink industry really strive to arrest these declines they've been having.
To answer your question specifically I think it's much more complicated than just having the numbers saying at what decline rate do you -- the oversaturation.
I think we've been pretty disciplined over the last few years and we've been doing it in our own economic best interest.
Just looking at the past 12 years we closed Columbus we closed the Gainesville end plant then we closed Milwaukee.
That was in part.
But at the same time we also took some existing 12-ounce and converted.
So I think that model you can't do that forever obviously and we're very cognizant of that.
But we're also cognizant of maintaining a tight supply/demand at least in our system.
The next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Mehul Dalia sitting in for Ghansham.
In European bev cans just wondering if you could parse out demand trends in Western Europe versus Eastern Europe during the quarter? We typically don't go into that level of granularity.
But what I will tell you is Western Europe the growth in Western Europe the overall industry was up low- to mid-single digits and there's a little bit more on Western Europe and a little bit less in Eastern Europe.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I'm just curious as to any progress on the BPA-free coatings for the food can market.
Can you just kind of update us as to what your customers are thinking there? Yes I think it's been relatively quiet on that.
From a technical perspective we have solutions is the most important thing to say.
There is a cost implication to that and I don't believe our customers have felt the need to convert and look at the relative costs of that without any real either legislative reason or economic business reason.
And so right now it's more in a holding pattern.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one.
Was there any benefit from the World Cup in 4Q for you guys? And if so could you quantify the impact? Well other than America being qualified I don't think we have any benefit.
But I do expect that certainly in the second quarter that's when we would expect to -- late second quarter and third quarter expect to see the benefit.
Our next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Your EBIT margin for Americas and Asia was up pretty dramatically.
Can you parse out how much of that was Brazil China or just better mix in North America? And going forward is that sustainable? I do understand there's some seasonality in the business.
Yes Phil this is Scott.
We're coming off relatively easier comps from last year's fourth quarter yet metal down year-over-year which will help margin percentage.
You had volume growth in Brazil and you had volume in China and great cost controls in North America and China and specialty growth in North America.
All those things kind of played into why the margins were where they're at.
And that's about as specific as I'm going to get.
And the only other thing that -- in North America we had a decline of 12-ounce which is a low-margin product.
True.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then can you give us some color on North America food on pricing for this year? I understand one of your customers is in bankruptcy.
That could actually get sold off to a self-manufacturer.
There's some noise in the marketplace with new capacity coming on in 2015.
Well let me address the customer bankruptcy issue because we took a charge in the third quarter for a portion of the receivable that we had owing from that customer.
There's going to be an auction for that company that will occur next week and we'll see the outcome of that what the outcome of that auction is if we have to make any changes to what we've already taken from a reserve standpoint.
And if we have to change anything we'll either do that in the 10-K or sooner.
And in terms of the pricing environment overall I'd say it's relatively stable.
Yes.
There really -- there's no appreciable change in pricing in our customer base.
And largely we often look at the metal side of the business and there's really no significant change we're talking about on the metal side.
So I don't -- we don't see any big changes one way or the other right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on Europe bev from what I understand some of your competitors saw a modest lift at least on pricing last year and the market appears to be still pretty tight.
Is that going to be a positive tailwind in '14 or is it going to be pretty flat as well? I think reasonably flat.
The reality is Europe is -- the economic declines experienced over the past few years in Europe are -- have flattened out.
But the economy is not strong.
I do think that this whole supply chain of virtually every industry has continued to be under cost pressure and trying to take costs out of the system.
And so I would not expect any appreciable change relative to the pricing environment.
The next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk a little bit about capital allocation.
If I look at your early-on comments of $461 million of cash flow from 2013 almost all of it returned to shareholders.
And it looks like if I heard the commentary correctly that the plan for 2014 is very similar.
And so I'm wondering is that a comment indirectly on the outlook for the M&amp;A environment and the ability for you to grow via acquisition? Not necessarily.
What I would say is we're always spending a fair amount of time on acquisition.
And you often aren't given credit for the things either you pass on but that doesn't mean there isn't a lot of activity going on.
As you know we are a very disciplined company when it comes to capital allocation.
And when interest rates are very low we buy things for the long term.
And when interest rates are low you have to compete with private equity and other firms like that.
And so we haven't found anything at least in the recent past that has met our return requirements.
And absent finding good return projects we're going to return our value back to our shareholders either through share repurchase and/or dividends and that is one reason why our board authorized a 20 million share repurchase authorization yesterday.
Scott anything to add? No I think that's right.
The cash machine has kind of grown to a point where we can do a lot of things at the same time.
So we're able to still invest.
We still have some growth capital in the 2014 budget.
And John talked about some of the growth capital that we spent in '13 that we'll start getting the returns on in '14.
And we're still able to buy back a lot of stock.
And so we'll still be able to do both of those things.
And hopefully acquisitions will come along that have good value where we could get the kind of returns we want.
But we don't need to be stretching for anything.
And so we'll continue to be disciplined.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the competitive environment within the acquisition market specifically versus private equity I guess I've heard some commentary that in this environment they're not able to lever up as much as they used to on some acquisitions.
Are you -- and therefore strategics are not as disadvantaged when it comes to acquisitions.
Is that something you've been running into as well? I guess on the margin but it's -- in this environment capital is still quite available and interest rates remain quite low.
And so I think it's just you have a much broader set of competition.
But I don't think there's any -- been significant change over the last call it 6 months or so no.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last question on the CapEx $375 million.
I mean it looks like maybe you underspent a little bit versus plan in 2013.
Is that just a rollover or is there something in that $375 million -- it was about $50 million more than what we forecast not you but our forecast.
Is there something in there that we're not aware of? There are some things in there that you're probably not aware of but we're not ready to talk about them in total yet.
I mean part of it is carrying capital from last year because we underspent what we thought we would spend.
So a little bit shifted to the right.
But there's still some growth projects that we're going after that we're just not ready to talk about at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And those are growth projects meant to fill the gap in 2015.
Is that how we should kind of think about that? No they're growth projects that have good long-term returns to them.
It has nothing to do with what year they're in.
It's just the opportunity that's coming.
It's getting to maturity.
And we think we have good contracts to support the capital that we would spend.
The next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> I noticed and I don't know if you addressed this John the aerospace margins were sort of the highest I'd ever seen or at least in a very long time.
Was that sort of a onetime wonder getting the 20 -- the 12 percentage-type margins that I think you made close to $25 million last quarter? Yes don't think that's sustainable.
I do think we had some early deliveries and some other things including some execution on existing programs that made it really more of a onetime bump in the margin.
I think as we look out into '14 margins for the full year '14 should be comparable to the full year '13.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And then I don't know if Scott you've specifically mentioned it but what is the change in the cash pension contribution rate in '14 versus '13? So I guess what were those numbers? And how does that compare to the book expense for both years? Well the expense from '13 to '14 will be down $15 million to $20 million because of interest rates and a variety of things.
The cash funding will be down considerably because we did fund up -- in the fourth quarter we did fund up our pension more.
And so it will be down considerably.
LLC</strong> Like 50 or...
More than 50.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Got you.
And then last question.
I don't think this was asked but -- or maybe I missed it but you mentioned the specialty can volumes were sluggish in 12-ounce in North America.
I don't know if you gave a more specific number and/or if you could tell us what specialty can volumes did in North America in the fourth quarter year-over-year.
Yes the 12-ounce was sluggish and I think -- I don't have the numbers in front of me but they were certainly down as an industry mid-single digits if not a little touch more than that.
Specialty volumes for us we've said for the full year -- I think the fourth quarter and the full year were about the same which was kind of mid-teens.
LLC</strong> Up mid-teens.
Got you.
Yes.
And the next question comes from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you here.
First when we look -- one of the businesses that you didn't particularly highlight in here was the extruded aluminum.
Can you talk about maybe what you're seeing there with respect to opportunities? I know that in the past it's been an area you've targeted for some growth and in particular potentially some more lines.
Can you maybe give us an update as to how that business is progressing? Yes.
Chris that's a good question.
It's -- we have over the past few years really put some focus on that in terms of growing that business both organically and inorganically via acquisition.
I think our European business continues to grow well.
Volume has slowed down a little bit in Europe over the past few years because of the economy.
We were up slightly.
And I think the folks over there are doing a great job.
As you all know in December 13 months ago we acquired the Mexican plant and that facility has -- the volumes are still growing double digits kind of mid -- low- to mid-teens.
We wish they were growing a little bit higher to be quite frank but I think that's going well.
And from an acquisition as well as a greenfield perspective we still have opportunities to expand our footprint.
And we've been looking at serving our customers whether it's here in North America or whether it's in Europe or other parts of the world.
We continue to be focused on that.
I think there's going to be some opportunities as we move forward into '14 and even beyond.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And that's kind of a good segue to -- when I think about the $175 million this year of growth capital that you've got chartered in there and I also appreciate you don't want to get too granular at this juncture on what you're doing I anticipate you'll probably give us more color as the year progresses.
But when I think about the -- I said growth capital I meant return-oriented capital.
Give us maybe a sense of what the balance is between growth-oriented projects and what might be more cost takeout or other efficiency projects as we think about those.
Yes of the -- so let's break this down.
Of the $375 million of capital that Scott mentioned our maintenance capital if you will is in the range $175 million to $200 million.
And within that maintenance there's always a level of cost-out in that whether it's getting more efficient on the energy side or other things like that.
But the additional call it $175 million of what we call is growth capital not too much of that is in terms of just pure cost-out.
It really is growth.
I just mentioned impact extruded.
There are some opportunities in there of broadening our geographic reach on the impact extruded side from a greenfield perspective.
On the beverage can side there's opportunities in there.
I don't think on the aerospace side over a couple of years ago we significantly expanded our ability to manufacture satellites in our Boulder facility so there's not a lot in there.
So it really is beverage cans and impact extruded.
And I focused it in broadening our geographic reach and in terms of new products and new capabilities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
Last quick one I had was in the past we've talked about -- you've given some color about what's happening in China with respect to the growth and that you anticipate being able to capitalize a little better on it this year.
Could you give us some color as to what the pricing environment has been like in relation to the capacity that's still there? Has it stabilized been more constructive continued to be more challenging? How would you maybe give us some thoughts there? There hasn't -- I think I said on the third quarter that China remains difficult.
I don't -- it's not going down appreciably but there have been pockets of softening -- continued softness on the pricing side and -- which is challenging.
And it gets to the question I think George asked earlier about supply/demand dynamics.
Until supply dynamics become more in favor I just -- we're not anticipating upside in pricing.
So we're focused a lot on the cost side.
Our guys are doing a great job on the cost side which is helping the business but prices aren't getting any better right now.
Next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> You referenced can demand improving in Europe or rather can's share of the overall package market in Europe improving in both beer and CSD.
And I'm wondering if it's possible to quantify that.
Is it something that's happening more at the margin? And then what is driving that from your perspective? Is it economic pressures consumer preference? Is it something your customers are driving? Well I think the answer is yes to all of that.
Just a little context.
I think for the full year the market grew 3% 3.5% over in Europe.
And again Europe is a big place with many different geographies so I'll generalize here.
But Europe grew kind of low- to mid-single digits.
I know that liquid consumption did not grow that much.
And so by definition the can took a little bit of share.
Reasons why cans took a little bit of share I think there are changing consumer preferences for one-way packaging over returnable bottles and we've talked about that in the past.
I do think that in some of the more mature economies people are staying home a bit more and the can is more of a home package.
So I think that has been helping.
I think those are the 2 things that are probably driving this can share mix the most.
It's not seismic.
It's over time and gradual.
And recall that relative to at least the United States for example the can as a share of the package mix is much smaller in Europe writ large than it is in the U.S.
The U.S.
on the beer side it's over 50% of beer is consumed out of cans in North America.
In Europe writ large it's in the low- to mid-20s.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Sure.
And just as a follow-up.
I mean you're coming up on a very easy comp for Europe in the first quarter.
I think January demand last year was reasonably strong and then things really kind of melted down in March.
I think there was some weather issues and you had some other cost issues as well.
But I'm just wondering did the experience of first quarter 2013 in any way change the way that you kind of forecast the full year? Did it make you more cautious? Or was that really just sort of a freak event from your perspective? Well I don't know if weather is a freak event.
But demand as we said this in the past we had 2 quarters the first and second last year that were down year-over-year and that hasn't happened too often in the decade we've been operating in Europe.
In fact it 2 out of 3 times happened last year and it was both in the first half.
I do think it was soft demand.
Recall also we talked about in mid to late 2012 we actually had moved our European headquarters from Germany into Switzerland and we knew we had some redundant costs.
And we were -- 2013 was an act to try and get after those costs.
I think the lessons learned from the first half of last year was you can't rely on volume all the time so you ought to be proactive and aggressive at all times about the cost side of the business.
And I think our folks have responded very well.
And that's why as we go into 2014 our cost programs are really executing well while at the same time if the volume is normalized it provides a little bit of upside.
And that's why I said earlier on it is only January.
If we could get through the first half of the year and volumes are normalized we feel pretty good but it's just too early to predict what the weather is going to do.
The next question comes from the line of Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I realize you guys don't have a crystal ball for Brazil but what is [indiscernible] Ball assuming for the next year if you could give some sort of range? And I believe the expectation is for one-way containers to outpace returnable glass next year.
But looking out beyond that do you think that a shift in the pack mix towards cans is still sustainable? It's a good question Debbie.
And I think we're -- we expect 2014 because of the "2 summer effect" we've talked about it to be positive.
And with the World Cup being there the can is a great one-way package.
The can as a share of the package mix is approaching at least on beer side 40%.
And I've mentioned a couple of minutes ago in the U.S.
it's over 50%.
So there's probably some marginal improvement on that but not wholesale improvement.
And so as we go past 2014 we expect overall volumes to more closely reflect the overall beer growth.
But in 2014 we do expect some nice growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then has your customer mix shifted materially over the last 6 months in Brazil at all with your new capacity? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a final question.
What is your outlook for can demand in North America? And are you happy with your standard and specialty can footprint? Well on the standard 12-ounce containers we expect continued declines on the soft drinks side.
We expect flat to slight declines on the beer side.
And we expect to continue the growth that we've seen on the specialty side.
From a footprint perspective as we sit here now we feel good about our footprint.
And we wish that 12-ounce was a bit stronger but that's as much reliant upon consumer demand.
And as we have shown over the years we will do what's necessary and in our economic best interest to make sure we're maximizing the value of what we do.
The next question comes from the line of Al Kabili with Macquarie.
Just wanted to dig in Europe bev on the -- on your market share.
Has there been any change throughout the year in '13? And so far what's the outlook for '14 in that regard? No is the short answer.
We just give you -- for the full year in 2013 as I said the market was up 3% 4%.
We were up slightly less in that.
A lot of it had to do with just timing and geography.
As I mentioned the first year was -- the first half was softer the second half was a bit stronger.
But there has been no appreciable change in that.
In any given year different things are happening with different customers but no there hasn't been any meaningful change.
Okay.
And then I just wanted to clarify on China as well.
With the cost savings and optimization you're doing there how are you -- but yet pricing still under some pressure.
How are you thinking about overall profits in China in '14 versus '13? I think that will get a little bit better.
I mean it's not going to be wholesale.
But we took a big price hit last year and I think we'll do a little bit better in '14 both from a volume standpoint and a cost-out standpoint.
Okay.
Got it.
And from a pricing perspective in the market how would you characterize '14 versus '13? Is the magnitudes of the declines lessening there or similar? I know we're not fully wrapped up there yet but in terms of contract renewals how -- so far how's the tenor there? I mean we're not seeing anywhere near the price declines that we saw from '12 to '13 going into '14 but the environment is still soft.
It's still weak and there's isolated things going on in different places.
But there's still -- as John talked about there's still way too much capacity.
And so we're doing what's in our control in terms of cost-out.
And we're growing with -- a little bit with the market.
And all those things should help us but the pricing environment is not getting better yet.
Okay.
And then on the food can side we heard from of one of your peers yesterday and they had talked about extending some contract lengths.
And I was wondering if you could sort of update us on how you're doing on the food can side and any changes to your contract length structures et cetera.
The short answer is nothing out of the ordinary.
We have a variety of different customers and a variety of different customer contracts and nothing really has changed appreciably in that.
We have -- our focus on is -- everyone knows at the end of '14 we expect to lose some business from a customer and we've talked about that for the last 6 months.
I think 2014 we have plans in place and the timing of the execution will occur throughout 2014 as we move towards that date.
We have a hole to fill we recognize that but I'll bet our people against anyone else any time.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
Final question is just a clarification on pension tailwind of $15 million to $20 million.
Can you help us just with where that flows through in the segments? I imagine most of that is going to be in the U.S.
And could we assume say 75% of that in U.S.
bev and maybe 25% or so in food can? Or help us kind of parse out where that will flow through.
It does hit the U.S.
but remember we got a big aerospace business too.
So you look at where the percentage of employees are.
Food has a bigger impact than what you'd think the size of the business but it's an older business.
Let me get to the detail I don't want to tell you off the top of my head but I do have that detail.
But it kind of runs across the businesses.
We have a follow-up question from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
One so if we look to '14 and could see your expectations for European profitability would we see more of the profit growth that you expect coming from a pickup in volume or would it come more from the cost-out? If you had mentioned that earlier I apologize I had missed it.
Yes well as you know George it's difficult to parse it out because it's a fixed-cost business.
So when you get a little bit more volume is that because of volume or because of cost? I will tell you this all things being equal our guys are doing -- our folks are doing a very good job on the cost side of the business.
And so we're going to continue to put our shoulder into that throughout '14.
And as I mentioned we're closing our German regional headquarters and that should happen late first quarter.
And we have a bunch of other cost-out opportunities that we have been executing on and so that's a big focus on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Related question and segueing a little bit on I guess Al's last question.
Again one of your peers yesterday was talking about some of the other things that they're working on to one make the food can more viable; and from our vantage point two secure their position with their customers and in their market along with plant realignment and looking at new markets.
Are you doing any kind of co-investing with your customers on a longer-term basis more so now than perhaps had been the case? Can you share any more details on the plan that you're executing in '14? No appreciable difference in terms of what you described as co-investing with our customers relative to what we've done in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the last question and I'll turn it over there's been some discussion in the trade that maybe not right now but over time there's going to be more and more usage of aluminum sheet in auto manufacturing.
And if that in fact does occur how do you think that might affect the availability of can sheet in the market? Obviously something that's very important to you.
What if your suppliers told you about that and the likelihood of supply shortages again not now but maybe down the road? Yes I'm not sure I'd worry about supply shortages.
I think that beverage can has been pretty steady so it's a nice steady business.
But the automotive business historically has a little bit more volatility toward it.
And I think there's a question of how much auto converts to aluminum and is that a stepping stone to another type of material some kind of composite material.
So I think all this is going to take some time to play out.
So we'll see.
The only other thing George I'd add to that is it really is -- what you're talking about is more of a North American phenomena than anything else.
And because of the pass-through nature of the business it's not a huge impact.
Research Division</strong> And I guess for that matter too to the extent you'd rather the other -- the reverse be true to the extent that can demand isn't growing by leaps and bounds that makes more availability I guess of can sheet as well.
But it sounds like your suppliers aren't telling you to worry about this anytime soon.
Well I think to be honest they're excited about the automotive opportunity.
And -- but Scott raised an excellent point.
They're doing it because of EPA guidelines in terms of miles per gallon for cars.
It is a lighter-weight material than steel but it is much more difficult to handle relative to steel in terms of welding and other things like that.
The question is is it a conversion to aluminum or is aluminum a migration to another form of composites or other things like that.
We have one final follow-up question from the line of Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> John Scott how do you factor the recent fluctuations in emerging markets into your CapEx plans? And I know you're strategy is to follow your customers but are you any less inclined to expand in emerging markets than perhaps you were a year or 2 ago? Not really.
I mean it all dependent on the right opportunity.
These things kind of come and go.
I don't get too caught up in where currencies trade in a particular day.
When we put assets in the ground we're going to be there for a long time.
And so if the long-term economic value proposition is there we would still do it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In Brazil how would you characterize the capacity situation at the moment? And based on our industry growth expectations do you think more capacity will be necessary over the next couple of years? It will be interesting to see.
I think it's reasonably tight for '14 because of the World Cup.
I think after that the biggest question is given the economic situation given the political situation and given the growth of the middle-class in Brazil what happens after '14 in terms of liquid consumption in terms of can growth in terms of the overall economic profile.
And so we're looking at that very closely but first and foremost we're saying "Let's put our head down and get through '14 and then we'll evaluate it a little bit more." Research Division</strong> Just one last one.
Scott forgive me if you mentioned this earlier but interest expense how much of a benefit do you expect it to be this year? I said that we expect full year interest expense in '14 to be around $163 million.
So the bonds that we issued last year and the redemption of the notes in January it's kind of -- the mix of that will help interest by quite a bit.
And we have no more questions at this time.
Okay great.
Thank you very much for participating.
And we look forward to what we think could be a strong 2014.
And we'll speak to you in April.
Thanks everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday May 1 2014.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
John Hayes Chairman President and CEO.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Jasmine and good morning everyone.
This is Ball Corporation's conference call regarding the company's first quarter 2014 results.
The information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Some factors that could cause the results or outcomes to differ are in the company's latest 10-K and in other company SEC filings as well as the company's news releases.
If you don't already have our earnings release it's available on our website at ball.com.
Information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
Now before I begin my formal comments today I'd like to thank everyone on the call and many others for the support caring and understanding during the loss of both of our friends and colleagues Gerrit Heske and Ray Seabrook.
Many of you know them and words cannot describe the outpouring of support from our family here at Ball our customers our suppliers shareholders and competitors.
Thank you.
We will move forward as they would want us to and build upon the legacy of excellence that they have helped create and perpetuate.
Now joining me on the call today is Scott Morrison Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Like many here at Ball Scott has also stepped up and is acting as Interim Chief Operating Officer for our global beverage can business.
I'll provide a brief overview of our company's performance.
Scott will discuss financial and global packaging metrics and then I'll finish up with comments on our aerospace business and the outlook for the remainder of 2014.
Our first quarter results came in nicely ahead of expectations.
The momentum we carried into the year continued across all of our businesses throughout the quarter truly a testament to all of the hard work put in by our people here at Ball.
Excellent cost management across our global packaging businesses volume growth in Europe and Brazil continued specialty can and beer container growth in North America key aerospace program deliveries and our disciplined returns-oriented capital allocation strategy drove these results.
During the first quarter we experienced much more constructive beverage can volume throughout most regions of the world than we had seen in the first part of last year.
We further improved operating costs in our European segment and we saw continued growth for beverage cans in the region.
We are proud of the work our European beverage team has accomplished at both the plant level as well as the support functions.
We continued to experience strong demand in Brazil which contributed favorably to the results as preparation for the 2014 World Cup and Carnival extended the summer selling season.
North America tinplate container volumes were lower-than-expected in the seasonally slow quarter.
And operationally we got off to a slower start than we would have liked.
Scott will go into that in more detail in a minute.
And aerospace for the second year in a row was awarded Boeing's Avionics Supplier of the Year award.
Out of a total of 14 000-plus suppliers that service Boeing this is yet another example of our close-to-our-customer focus as part of who we are.
As we entered the year we believe that 2014 was shaping up to be a better year than 2013 and the first quarter helped to reinforce this.
We're experiencing good global beverage can volumes versus this time last year.
Our focused efforts to identify pockets of growth and manage our cost structure are bearing fruit.
Both will drive EPS growth EVA dollar generation and strong and consistent cash flow in 2014 and beyond.
And with that I'll turn it over to Scott for a review of our first quarter numbers.
Scott? Thanks John.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share were $0.81 versus last year's $0.58.
In addition to John's comments around better year-over-year global beverage can volumes and cost-out progress a lower share count contributed to our improved results.
During the quarter we acquired a net $194 million of stock and returned another $19 million to shareholders in the form of dividends.
And presently the majority of our free cash flow is expected to be returned to shareholders via share repurchases and dividends.
For the full year no big changes to our previous financial metrics.
Free cash flow is still expected to be in the range of $550 million; share buybacks around $500 million; CapEx around $375 million with it being more back-end loaded; interest expense at about $163 million; effective tax rate is expected to be in the range of 29%; and full year corporate undistributed is now expected to be closer to $80 million.
Net balance sheet debt at the end of the quarter was approximately $3.6 billion.
Credit quality and liquidity of the company remain solid with comparable EBIT-to-interest coverage at 5.2x and net debt-to-comparable EBITDA at 2.9x.
Committed credit and available liquidity at quarter end was in excess of $1 billion.
For a complete summary of first quarter results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis please refer to the notes section of today's earnings release.
Moving to operations.
Our metal beverage Americas and Asia segment comparable earnings were up roughly $20 million in the first quarter.
Year-over-year benefits from cost-out programs excellent operating performance at the plant level and continued specialty can growth in the Americas all contributed to better segment results.
In the quarter North America volumes continued to be sluggish for standard cans in the carbonated soft drink category.
However cans for beer were up and Brazil volumes were up strong double-digits.
Our China volumes were off slightly due to capacity constraints and some regional supply demand issues though excellent plant performance and efficiencies ensure that our China business continues to generate positive EVA dollars.
European segment profit was up roughly $25 million in the first quarter due to mid-single digit volume growth and the benefits of reduced costs.
Food and household comparable segment earnings were up slightly in the quarter as mid-single digit volume declines for tinplate containers in North America were offset by mid-single digit volume increases in Europe for extruded aluminum containers.
More recently we have seen some modest price cost compression in the U.S.
food and household segment which will impact us as we move through the balance of 2014.
We also were impacted by incremental manufacturing efficiencies due to weather inventory adjustments and plant performance.
In summary our beverage operating team is doing an excellent job meeting outsized demand in Brazil and favorable demand in Europe while at the same time we are preparing for continued manufacturing projects in North America and Europe to further improve our packaging businesses.
With that I'll turn it back to you John.
Great.
Thanks Scott.
Our aerospace business performed very well in the quarter.
Solid execution and higher award fees on existing programs successful deliveries and launches and recognition of our aerospace team's performance not only with Boeing but with other customers were some of the highlights.
Contracted backlog at the end of the quarter was $868 million and as I mentioned on our January call we are pursuing several large programs that are expected to be awarded by year end.
During the quarter the Ball-built GMI instrument was successfully launched from Japan and began collecting science data on the Earth's rain and snowfall.
Also the Ball-built Kepler satellite NASA's first mission to find Earth-sized planets in the habitable zone marked its fifth year anniversary of planet hunting.
And so far it has identified 715 new planets quite an accomplishment in its own right.
Now looking out across our business today.
We are not without our challenges.
The pricing environment in China has yet to improve.
Our North American tinplate business has a bit more headwinds than we have had in the past and volume comps will likely normalize as we head into the back half of the year as the World Cup concludes and we lap a strong second half of 2013.
However and most of all our business has stepped up and delivered.
This quarter was one filled with personal loss and numerous business accomplishments.
The term resilience comes to mind and we are moving forward as a team.
I am proud to be a Ball employee.
Given the strong start to the year we remain confident in our ability to achieve our long term diluted EPS growth goal of 10% to 15% in 2014 and beyond while growing our EVA dollars.
And with that Jasmine we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi from Baird.
Research Division</strong> First off on Brazil what do you estimate market growth was during the quarter? How much do you think was the World Cup? And on an underlying basis what do you see occurring in the region? It seems like there's another beer tax being implemented.
I guess what are your customers saying in terms of demand expectations for the year? Market in the first quarter was really strong.
It was up high-teens.
We were up more than that because if you remember we put in that new line in the fourth quarter of last year so we grew about -- a little more than 10 points higher than the market in the first quarter.
We are seeing very strong volumes and good growth in specialty cans.
I'm a little nervous as to what happens after the World Cup.
There seems to be a lot of momentum going into the World Cup.
But we'll have to wait and see.
And we have tougher comps in the second half because of that line.
And then also Ghansham I might just add I think it was even yesterday the Brazil Finance Ministry raised taxes on beer and soft drink effective June 1.
And it's our understanding it will increase the price at the retail about 4% or 5%.
And while this could have an impact on volumes in the second half obviously how much it's too early to tell at this point in time.
But we are a bit cautious about that in the second half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Makes sense.
And then on Europe I know you had an easier comparison from a year ago but was there anything unusual from an EBIT standpoint if you kind of think about the year-over-year variance? And if you can isolate for us the cost savings impact year-over-year that would be helpful.
It's really a combination.
If you look at last year in the first quarter volumes were down a fair amount.
This year first quarter our volumes were up nicely.
That combined with the cost-out programs the combination of those 2 things specialty can growth stronger growth in Eastern Europe all those things helped the first quarter.
So it was a very strong quarter.
Yes I might just add that in a fixed-cost business -- I think we talked about this before -- it's always difficult to separate the cost out from the volume impact but we are on track relative to our cost-out programs that we've laid out in prior conference calls.
And with the added benefit of some more constructive volume I think that's what you saw.
And the next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Europe was off to a very strong start with the margins in that 12% ballpark already.
I know it's a seasonally smaller quarter but are you guys on track to hit that 12% margin target already for 2014 or should -- could you see some margin pressure with the metal premiums kicking in? Yes we do have some headwinds in the back half of the year from the metal premium that I talked about before to the tune of around EUR 6 million if it stays where it is right now.
I think what we said is we expect to be kind of in that 11% to 12% range this year.
But we're still working.
The cost-out programs as John mentioned are on track and continue to progress and proceed but we won't get the full benefit of that until we get into next year frankly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then noncontrolling line was up more than 50%.
I assume that's mostly Brazil but can you comment on that? And were there any -- were customers building inventory for the World Cup a little sooner than normal? That's a good question.
Yes the answer to the increase in that line is mostly Brazil.
And building to the advance of World Cup -- remember they had a very good summer so weather was very warm throughout their summertime.
Carnival was late which kind of extended the summer.
So we've gotten a couple of benefits plus then as we start to get into the World Cup.
So I think the combination of all those plus having an additional line that we didn't have last year at this time all of those helped drive the results.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last final one.
Beer demand in North America was quite strong particularly for bev cans.
Are you seeing that momentum spillover in 2Q? And I just wanted to get a little more color on that front because beer I don't think was that strong overall for the category.
So are you outpacing the market from share gains or are you seeing a pack mix shift? No I think it's mostly a pack share or pack mix shift.
The overall beer market actually was strong in the first quarter despite some of the weather.
And I'm not talking just cans.
But cans also continued to grow its share of the package mix within the beer category.
Just a little statistic we've talked about the craft beer industry and how the growth of cans has been helpful there that the can as a share of the package mix is now in double-digit percent where just 5 6 years ago we weren't selling any cans into that.
So there's various trends going on like that which have been very constructive in the beer category.
And the next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> You referenced some price compression in food and household and some pressure in North American tinplate.
And I'm wondering if you could quantify the pressure you saw in the first quarter and what you might expect for the remainder of the year and maybe give a little color on what's driving that? Yes well what's driving it is as most people know I think to a degree and we had anticipated this that there's some new capacity coming onstream in North America.
And I think it's certainly in the second half of the first quarter.
As a result of some of this competitive activity we've been nicked a bit going forward.
We're going to be standing firm with respect to maintaining our customer base but we've had to respond to some of the pricing extensions that others have done.
But more importantly I think assets related to what we've already announced have been moving around.
And that's been creating some disruption in our manufacturing footprint right now.
And so as we look forward I think we have some challenges not only on the pricing side but also on the manufacturing side that we need to get right.
And then as you rightly pointed out it's seasonally slow.
And as we go into the pack we had a pretty good pack last year so it's unknown what the pack is going to look like this year.
That those are the issues that weigh on our mind when we think about that segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just switching to Americas bev.
You referenced I think stable beverage volumes in North America.
If I go back to last year I think you had referenced double-digit volume declines in 12-ounce cans.
So I was just wondering if you look at your 12-ounce volumes were they flat or up or down versus last year's comps? And generally how did you feel about the demand for standard cans that you saw in the U.S.
in 1Q given kind of an easier comp but difficult weather.
How do you [indiscernible].
Good question.
Recall that last year we had some higher declines in the industry due to a loss of some business a couple of years ago.
And obviously we don't have that now.
I think the overall tone for standard cans in North America is a bit better today.
Not wholesale better but a bit better than it was this time last year.
We did have some tough weather in the first quarter of this year.
But having said that the overall category was roughly flat and I described it as specialty being up.
And the standard cans which make up the majority of it being down slightly.
But certainly not down the 4% to 6% as an industry that we had been seeing last year.
And the next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> My question was really on -- first a follow-up on the North American metal food business.
I just want to make sure in conjunction with the price compression have you been able to link them to contracts and lock those customers in for longer periods of time? And second on that I think when we talked last you didn't think you were going to see this type of compression just given where your customers are located.
Can you talk about maybe something that changed that led to this decision? Well I think as we said in the first quarter that we have a variety of contracts number one.
And what we saw as we went through the quarter is that some other customers and some other competitors that were looking up to lock up volume a little bit more longer term.
And as a result of that our discussions with our customers shifted just a little bit.
And so we had to respond to a couple of certain situations.
Obviously when you're in discussions like that you want to get something if you have to give something.
And so that's what -- whether it's contract length or other things like that.
And so that's what we certainly had been focused on.
And so as I've said -- I wouldn't read into it wholesale.
It's hurt a little bit but not -- certainly for our corporation it's not material but we did see a little bit more activity than we had expected.
We had expected it later on this year but it just happened a little bit sooner I think.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when we look to the underlying demand trends in North America with CSD falling and sounds like you're picking up incremental wins maybe with some small craft beers and whatnot in the beer category.
When you look at your overall footprint in North America are there some changes that would need to be made going forward if that mix continues to shift? Meaning beer outperforms CSD or can you serve the existing customers off your existing footprint? I think the current trends that we saw in first quarter and recall it's only a quarter.
So a trend doesn't make that.
But if those trend -- type of trends continue as we said in January we feel pretty good about where our footprint is.
We over the last few years have taken out a fair amount of capacity and we've converted existing 12-ounce capacity to specialty.
Some of the growth in beer is not only on 12-ounce but it is also on specialty containers.
But I do think just overall when you take a step back relative to a year ago the overall tone of the soft drink is a little bit better.
The tone of beer we have beer growth right now and can share penetration growth in the beer segment so that's good.
And then specialty off a bigger base continues to grow nicely.
So I just think overall as an industry the tone feels a touch better.
But again we're also very cognizant that it was a seasonally slow first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last one on the North American carbonated soft drink market.
Have you seen any signs of promotional activity from your customers or are we still sort of in this period of -- where they're trying to improve their margins and maybe not promoting as much? Have you heard anything? I think actually in the first quarter you saw a little bit more promotional activity than you would have seen in a first quarter in prior year.
And I do think as we've talked in the past that the CSD customers are trying to optimize this value versus volume equation.
And they also recognize that given the elasticity of CSD and some of the health and wellness issues that you just can't keep pushing price and expect volumes not to decline.
And so we have seen a little bit more promotional activity but it's way premature to talk about what type of promotional activity we'll see in the summertime.
And the next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I want to pick up on the promotional activity.
I mean we've heard from some of the case producers that there is in fact a bit more promotion in the soft drink side.
Do you think that that can continue given what looks to have been a little bit more success and a little more volume through retail channel for soft drinks? Again yes is the short answer to your question.
We think there can be some more promotional activity.
A lot of it has to do with weather and is more regional.
I think what you're seeing -- we used to talk in the years past about promotional activity and that sounded like it was a national opportunity.
You're seeing much more promotional activity done at the very local level and it's much more on the execution side of that.
We have seen more of that certainly in the first quarter.
I think we would expect to see a bit more of that as we go into the summer but time will tell.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Next question.
From my take on your commentary regarding North American food correct me if I'm wrong but it sounded like you were somewhat disappointed in terms of your execution of your plans as far this year were perhaps being surprised by the activity being a little bit more front-loaded.
Is that a fair assessment or is that off the mark? And realizing you can't comment too much on a forum like this what could you tell us qualitatively about what you're doing to adjust going forward both from a cost and from a contractual standpoint? Well first with respect to some of the headwinds we're facing we talked a little bit about the pricing side.
But we are as I mentioned we do have a fair amount of assets related to a couple of plant closures Elgin Danville we have announced in the past year.
And candidly getting the equipment installed and getting it running up to our specifications and expectations has gone a bit slower.
And our manufacturing people are working extremely diligent to get that right.
But that's just a fact as we sit here today.
So that's created some disruption.
I think as we go in a bit longer term we expect that come late summer -- and we had mentioned on earlier calls that we expected to know what we would have to do from a capacity point of view by late spring or early summer and that's probably been pushed out a month or 2 relative to our capacity adjustments in the second half of this year as a result of the loss of some customer business.
But we full well know what we need to do and it's really just a timing issue of when we begin to execute on that.
And the competitor is raising the capacity in by the end of the year.
And I think we want to make sure that our customer is being well served and we want to do it in the right way in this transition.
And so we'll probably have a much better view towards mid to late summer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
John one other on beverage and taking you back on one of the prior questions.
Obviously first quarter wasn't so bad in light of other quarters from an aggregate standpoint for the industry.
Beer nearly bailed out soft drink so to speak.
But considering that traditionally there have been differences in end sizes between the 2 do you have -- if this trend continues do you have to at least recapitalize on the end making side of your modules or you don't think that that will be an issue that you can contend with or you have the flexibility on your end-making equipment to change end sizes? Well the short answer is I don't think that is an issue we need to contend with.
And we have enough flexibility that that is not a thing that keeps us awake at night.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one and I'll turn it over.
The backlog on aerospace did decline.
You had called out this year that you would be hoping to get some project wins.
Obviously that's coming later in the year.
If you win your rightful share -- and I realize that's difficult to project where do you see your backlog by the end of the year? What should we be marking to market in terms of good progress or not so good progress for Ball by the end of the year? It's tough to say because as I said George some of these contract wins are going to be in the end of the year.
And we don't know if it's going to be December or January.
So don't hold me to a number as of December 31.
But if we win our fair share through this cycle of new wins we should be up relative to where we had been 18 months ago.
But the booking of that -- George the booking of that into the backlog we can win something but then it takes time to get everything back to where it would roll into our backlog.
So that's what John is talking about.
We may know we win it this year but it may not show up in the backlog yet.
Research Division</strong> Would that be over $1 billion? I'm sorry Scott.
Would that be over $1 billion if you get back to where you were 18 months ago? Yes.
If we win our fair share.
And we're as I've said about $870 million right now.
It would be back over $1 billion.
And the next question comes from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I could follow up from right where George was at talking about the aerospace business a little bit.
I mean appreciating that for us dumb packaging guys we don't always understand the aerospace business as well as we should.
And also appreciating that it can be a little more complicated understanding when payments come in for performance things that you can't always talk about.
You're off to a fabulous start for the year.
You are winning some new business but it sounds like it takes a while.
Could this look more like a from an EBIT perspective you're off to a good enough start can it look like a 2013 year? Or does it look more like a 2012 year as you kind of look at or think about how this year is shaping up? Well just a couple of observations before I try and hit that head on.
Our folks performed tremendously well.
And we had a very strong quarter and a lot of it had to do with award fees because we are performing.
And as you move along in the life cycle of any contract and as you know we have hundreds of them you de-risk the program but you also get award fees because of your performance.
And that's exactly what happened.
It's also the reason why there's been a slow burn in terms of our backlog because as we either complete or move towards the completion of many of those bigger projects that's where a lot of those award wins would likely occur.
To answer your question does it look more like 2012 or 2013? It's probably a little bit closer to '13 than it is to '12.
And the reason why I say that is we've had some great success on the award fees.
That can't happen every quarter.
And so -- and given that we have the new programs that we're bidding on we won't hear on many of these until later on this year.
I think we're going to see "more normalized" 3 quarters of the year this year.
And then depending on how those wins look 2014 we'll have to recalibrate at that point in time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's actually very...
Oh I'm sorry.
2015 we recalibrate.
I'm sorry.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
If I could switch gears a second and talk about the bev business over in Asia.
Please remind us the sizing of your business what you have in China versus some of the other regions in Southeast Asia.
I think you had some capacity in Vietnam et cetera.
And the pricing and the return characteristics are they markedly different I'm guessing yes between what you're seeing in China and what you are in other pieces and has there been any pressures in the other piece of the business as well? Or how do you -- how should we think about potential for improvement within China? Why don't I start then I'll turn it over to John.
In terms of where we're at remember our Vietnam is a joint venture so it doesn't flow -- those volume numbers don't flow through our numbers.
We're still seeing nice growth in the market but there is a lot of capacity and so pricing is not getting any better.
And so what we're doing is doing things that we control on our cost side to take cost out of our business.
And our guys are doing a great job of doing that.
So our returns look decent.
And it's just not as good as it used to be not quite as much fun as it used to be but it's still good.
And I think we should -- we just don't see the pricing environment improving materially for this year definitely.
But we're doing the things that we control and the market continues to grow.
So that's a good thing as well.
Scott said in his prepared remarks that we're generating positive EVA dollars so that must mean we're generating returns in excess of 9% as you all know.
The other thing as Scott said the volume -- industry volume has been growing quite strong.
And we've talked about this in the past with all the overcapacity.
How long will it take to -- for the growth to chew into that and create a more balanced supply-demand.
The positive is on the demand side the volumes have been growing strongly as an industry.
I do still believe that there's some of those smaller competitors that are putting some incremental capacity in not nearly as great as it was a couple of years ago but there is still a bit incremental.
But I do think that overall excess capacity is slowly getting smaller.
And it's a function of how long it will take to get there and it would be premature to speculate.
I just know it's slowly getting better but we haven't yet seen it in the pricing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question along those lines then I'll turn it over.
Is there a marked difference between margin levels profitability levels what have you between what is in China and what is outside of China as you look across Southeast Asia? Not materially -- again for us as Scott mentioned we have a joint venture in Vietnam and then we have a small equity interest in Thailand.
And so we have to a degree a limited purview but no is the short answer.
We don't see any wholesale changes in what the profile of each of the businesses are.
Yes.
We have the advantage in China of having scale.
That probably helps us more so than a place like Vietnam but that would be the biggest difference.
And the next question comes from the line of Al Kabili with Macquarie.
First question is with the better-than-expected first quarter and maintaining the guidance for the full year how much of a factor was the announced beer tax in Brazil factoring in in your decision to maintain the outlook despite the very strong 1Q? Well we had always said that we -- in the second half of the year down in Brazil that we expected it to be more muted just because of the 2 summer season we've talked about: the extended Carnival the World Cup.
And so the announced beer tax obviously has incremental headwinds on it.
But I don't think it necessarily fundamentally changed our view as a corporation on what our 2014 would look like.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
I think I believe the headquarters in Germany recently closed and Scott I was wondering if perhaps you could help us maybe size up what the incremental cost savings in Europe beverage might be this year from that recent event? I know there's an indication that the full savings probably doesn't occur until next year but I imagine you're probably going to get something incremental this year from that.
Yes just to be clear the headquarters didn't close.
The headquarters moved to Zürich a couple of years ago.
We consolidated a couple of office locations that we had in Germany into one.
And so with that there is a reduction in the number of people that we'll have.
We've never quantified the dollar amount.
What we've talked about is margins getting back to that historical level that we had a few years ago in that business.
And we're on track with that and we're on track with all those plans.
So as we move through the year we'll continue to get the cost-out benefits.
And again in the first quarter you see the leverage of cost out but also volume growth.
Volume is a wonderful thing in this business when it grows.
So we expect to have a solid year in Europe and it will continue to be decent as we move through the year in terms of achieving those cost-out programs.
Okay.
So I guess maybe if I can ask it another way from -- is there incremental cost savings that has occurred with some of those office closures? Is there some incremental cost savings that will have occurred this year that hadn't yet been seen in the first quarter? Yes we expect our cost structure at the end of this year to be lower than it is at the beginning of this year.
Yes and just I think to Scott's point Al just part of it is the consolidation of these German administrative offices.
As you know we have a couple of other projects going on.
And so as we move through the second half of last year and as we move through all of this year we are taking the necessary plans.
Just one of them happened to be in the first quarter late first quarter is when the 2 German facilities consolidated.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then my final question is just on carbonated soft drinks in the U.S.
And it looks as if the overall volume trend of carbonated soft drinks is declining a little bit less than the cans are.
And I was wondering how you are thinking about the can share within carbonated soft drinks if there's any additional share -- if there's any appreciable share shift that you're seeing within that as well? The short answer is I don't think we see any appreciable share difference.
I do know that the 2-liter PET was promoted a decent amount in the first quarter.
But again the first quarter is the most seasonably slow.
And so that question is better debated come the fall when you actually can see a full year of the summer months related to cans as a share of the package mix.
But we don't expect any appreciable changes in the can mix.
And the next question comes from the line of Tyler Langton with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question on the CapEx side.
I think last quarter you talked about $175 million being directed to growth.
So I just didn't know if you had any details at this point of where it might be spent whether you would spend the entire amount? Just any color there would be great.
Sure.
We just don't expect to spend around that $375 million number.
I can tell you little bit more.
We've got a couple of big projects.
One is a new specialty addition to our portfolio the new shape and size that will happen here in North America.
And that will be spent -- really ramped up in the back half of this year to be producing next year.
And then we're also adding -- due to the growth in Europe we're going to add a specialty line in The Netherlands to keep up with the growing demand.
And so that will get spent a decent amount again in the second half of this year to be able to be operating by the busy summer season next year.
So those are -- we've got some other smaller things but those are 2 larger ones that we can talk about now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And in terms of just switching back to China quickly in terms of cost out.
Is there much more room for improvement with those programs or is it kind of largely in the numbers at this point? I think they continue to take -- they're making progress and I think they'll continue to make progress through this year and even into the next year.
We've got some longer-term plans about the way the business is operated.
But I think we'll make it leaner and more cost-effective going forward.
So they've done a lot of work already and they'll continue to work through this year and into next year frankly.
I think our -- we're not hoping or waiting for the pricing environment to get better.
As John mentioned we're still making good EVA dollar returns there.
And we're going to continue to focus on our cost side so that we're able to participate in the growth in that market and continue to be profitable and get good returns.
Research Division</strong> And then if I -- in terms of that capacity that you're adding can you share any details on sort of how much incremental capacity those lines in the U.S.
and Europe would be? Well they're specialty lines so it's a little bit different if you're talking about capacity.
But not at this point we're not going to share that.
And the next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> First question just quickly on the aerospace business.
I know you were talking about there's some contract potential later this year.
But it looks like in a last 2 quarters you've had some pretty darn good margins there.
And is that a function of the type of work you're doing and could we see sort of this elevated level of margins continue? No.
I think it's a function of as we get closer to the completion of some of these big programs that's when you really get to recognize you've de-risked the project and you're getting your award fees.
Obviously you don't get award fees at the beginning of a contract.
You get it when you're completing it.
And I think over the last couple of quarters that's why you've seen margins do what they do.
And that's why you've seen our backlog come off a little bit as well.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And then changing gears a little bit you all mentioned 2.5 years ago -- when we were out visiting -- some market data that suggested about 53% of U.S.
beer cans were -- beer was -- was packaging cans.
I think in Brazil it was like 39% and China was down around 10% or 15%.
Could you update us on where you see those regions in terms of the beer share in cans? Yes.
You have a good memory.
North America was about 53% and I don't have the data in front of me but it's in the mid- to upper-50s.
It's actually moved up.
I'd say 55% 56% 57% in that range.
Down in Brazil it was in the upper-30s it's now in the lower-40s on the beer segment.
And in China really back a few years ago it was really more like 4% or 5% -- excuse me 5% or 6%.
And that has moved up consistent with the other regions as well.
So it's probably in the 7% 8% 9%.
LLC</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And when you look at -- just one more question on the soft drink side.
There's for whatever reason sort of a presumption that I sense from you and your competitors that there's no real reason or hope to see a material change -- and maybe this is my perception -- in the share in the CSD segment in places where returnable bottles continue to be the lion's share and plastic as well.
Anything changing there whether it be in China or in Brazil in terms of the share in -- of CSDs in cans? No.
I don't believe that we see any material changes in the regions you mentioned relative to package share mix.
As you know cans don't play a big part in CSD in those regions you talked about.
And so we don't see any big change.
[Operator Instructions] And we have a follow-up coming from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A few questions there to clean up from our side.
Can you comment at all about -- within North American beer whether any of your larger customers are planning intensified new product introductions or promotional activities? Some of your customers in the last few years have had some difficulty in the marketplace.
So to the extent that you can offer any color that would be helpful.
I think as a general comment George every beer company out there big or small is looking at the proliferation of tastes and proliferation of new products.
And it's not just limited to the big guys.
And so I think you're seeing a lot of line extensions a lot of new products ciders new for example here in North America.
And so I could go on and on.
But as a general rule I think you're seeing a fragmentation of taste.
And therefore a fragmentation and a differentiation of the products that our customers are making to respond to that.
Research Division</strong> Which in turn is one of the reason that you're seeing the proliferation in alternative can formats? Bingo you got it.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Within Brazil back to the beer tax I don't know if you have any color on this.
But in the past where there have been instances of these sorts of taxes what has been the prior volume dropoff? And with the earnings season I haven't had a chance to really study what the government announced yesterday but would there be any differential or favoritism applied to beer in one pack form versus another or would it be across the board a comparable tax? Yes.
I believe it's our understanding it's an across-the-board tax on both beer and soft drink.
I think in many places not just Brazil when you see -- sometimes you see a short-term blip as the supply chain adjusts and price increases are ultimately passed through to the consumer.
And so without going into great detail we expect this to be no different.
And so there might be a short-term blip.
But again this is not a wholesale change.
Tax in Brazil is part of the everyday life.
And so they did it as of June 1 which is kind of surprising just a couple of weeks before the start of the World Cup.
So who knows maybe all the foreigners coming into Brazil will be paying for it.
Research Division</strong> Well maybe that's a way to sneak it in with a better demand environment so it's less noticeable to whichever consumer domestic or tourist.
Question on sweeteners do you have any color from your marketing folks in terms of your customers' views on the new sweeteners for diet soft drinks and whether they should be particularly helpful or not really this year in terms of volume? Yes the only thing I can say George is what our customers have said publicly.
And they said they have been experimenting and trying.
And they would expect in 2014 to be rolling out some trials on various sweetener alternatives.
And so that's really all we can say at this time.
Research Division</strong> I understand.
My last one then I'll turn it over.
Scott you were saying before that in China while it's not necessarily as much fun as it used to be and we understand.
You're still making relatively good margin.
You're making positive EVA dollars.
Do you think your peers are making positive EVA dollars? And the question behind the question is if they still are then how do you ultimately call where we sit? And then to the capacity cycle if the industry broadly are still earning above cost of capital even at these relatively depressed prices? I don't think many people in the industry are earning above their cost of capital is my guess.
I mean we've seen some of those companies as they file public documents to go public that weren't achieving their cost of capital.
So I think given our scale our cost structure we're able to still be able to do that even in these tougher pricing environments.
But I don't think a lot of people -- my guess is that they're not earning their cost of capital.
Yes and I think it's our -- George it's our view that particularly with some of the smaller ones there liquidity has been so free and available with respect to debt financing in China that that has created this.
At some point in time credit always gets a little bit tighter and as a result of that when it does occur we believe that there will be some level of shakeout.
But it's premature to say but that's how we think about it.
And we also have a follow-up coming up from the line of Chris Manuel from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just had one kind of quick one more along the lines of capital allocation.
You mentioned within the press release -- something that jumped out of me was looking in extruded aluminum with new products -- I don't know if you said new capacity but new customers some new things.
Could you maybe talk to us there about recycled? I know you've made virgin slugs here but it sounds like you're doing some recycled elements with those.
What's the outlook or thoughts with respect to also making some containers here maybe in North America? Could you -- and maybe give us a little color from that front.
A couple of things that you raised there.
Number one I think in terms of the new products not only -- that category we're always coming out with new shapes new sizes with our customers but we're also to your point on the slug side we this year we have actually commercialized and it's in the market over in Europe with our ReAl slugs which is a much higher recycled content which provides more rigidity to the container at a lighter weight container.
And so we think it's a pretty neat innovation that our folks came up with.
And so that as I said now commercial in the European marketplace.
And as we look to expand it and roll that out we will continue to do so.
We also as you know have a facility down in Mexico and that's been going recently nicely.
The volumes have been growing.
We always wish it could grow a little bit faster but it's going okay.
But it's also provided a dialogue with our customers an incremental dialogue with our customers about what else we can be doing.
And I wouldn't be completely shocked if you at some point in time saw us making those containers somewhere in a facility in North America.
But that's probably all I can say at this time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful actually.
The second element with capital allocation.
I know you guys historically have done a great job of balancing 3 different ways that you've gone back and redistributed more through capital whether it's dividends repurchase whether it's investing in your own businesses whether it's acquisition.
As you kind of look today the acquisition market there's still a lot of activity.
How would you -- in a way that you're able to address it sort of talk about the environment as it sits today more active less active seeing better things coming to market worst things coming to market? Again appreciating that it's sometimes a difficult topic to broach.
No I appreciate that.
As you know we're always looking at opportunities.
And to be honest we're pretty disciplined when it comes to capital allocation.
So you never know when it will pop.
We've talked about this in the past where the deal wheel or the sponsor world private equity world with the rates and availability of capital being where they are it's always incrementally more challenging for us to find the right return type projects but we continue to look at those.
And as I said before you just don't know when they're going to pop.
But our pipeline not only now but in the past has been reasonably robust.
It's just a function of is it the right opportunity and the right time? And there appears to be no further questions over the phone lines at this time.
Mr.
Hayes I will now turn the call back over to you for any closing remarks.
Okay thank you very much Jasmine and we appreciate all your support.
And we look forward to speaking to you in several months.
Take care.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Ball Corporation Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Thursday July 31 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Hayes Chairman President and CEO for Ball Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
This is Ball Corporation's conference call regarding the company's second quarter 2014 results.
The information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Some factors that could cause the results or outcomes to differ are in the company's latest 10-K and in other company SEC filings as well as company news releases.
If you don't already have our earnings release it's available on our website at ball.com.
Information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
Joining me on the call today is Scott Morrison Senior Vice President and Chief Executive Officer.
I'll provide a brief overview of our company's performance.
Scott will discuss financial and global packaging metrics and then I'll finish up with comments on our aerospace business and the outlook for the remainder of 2014.
In short we had a strong second quarter and our results exceeded our expectations.
During the second quarter we saw an extension of many of our first quarter themes: solid global beverage can demand with healthy year-over-year growth in Europe Asia and Brazil and firmer demand in North America; lower operating costs in our European beverage can segment and continued strong cost management in our North American as well as Asian beverage can businesses; continued specialty can and beer container growth in North America; strong performance in our European and Mexican impact-extruded businesses from both a volume and cost perspective; strong aerospace program execution; and ongoing disciplined returns-oriented capital allocation strategy from all drove our results.
North American tinplate container volumes were lower than expected and operationally we continue to have some operational challenges that we discussed on our first quarter conference call.
Some of it is related to the repositioning of certain manufacturing equipment across the domestic food and household segment footprint and some of it is a bit self-inflicted as we have taken steps -- and we have taken steps to get it back on the right track for 2015 and beyond.
While some previously disclosed segments still exist in the back half of '14 including persistent LME premium in Europe the aforementioned manufacturing inefficiencies in our food and household products division and tougher second half volume comps it's evident that 2014 is shaping up to be a better year than 2013.
And with that I'll turn it over to Scott for a review of our second quarter numbers.
Scott? Thanks John.
Excuse me I'm fighting a bit of a cold this morning.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share were $1.13 versus last year's $0.85.
In addition to John's comments around better year-over-year global beverage can volumes and cost-out progress a lower share count contributed to our improved results.
During the first half of the year we acquired net $239 million of our stock and returned another $37 million to shareholders in the form of dividends.
And presently the majority of our free cash flow is expected to be returned to shareholders via share repurchases and dividends.
For the full year again no significant changes to our previous financial metrics.
Free cash flow is expected to exceed $550 million share buybacks will be in the range of $500 million CapEx around $375 million with it being more back-end weighted.
Interest expense should be around $163 million and our effective tax rate for the full year should be in the range of 28%.
On a full year basis corporate undistributed should be closer to $80 million.
Net balance sheet debt at the end of the quarter was approximately $3.4 billion.
Credit quality and liquidity of the company remains solid with comparable EBIT-to-interest coverage of 5.6x and net debt-to-comparable EBITDA at 2.7x.
Committed credit and available liquidity at quarter end was in excess of $1 billion.
For a complete summary of second quarter results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis please refer to the Notes section of today's earnings release.
Moving to operations.
Our metal beverage Americas and Asia segment comparable earnings were up more than $15 million in the second quarter.
Year-over-year benefits from cost-out programs excellent operating performance at the plant level and continued specialty can growth in the Americas all contributed to better segment results.
In the quarter North America volumes were up due to our customer waiting to beer and continued growth in specialty while volumes in Brazil and China were both up mid-teens in the quarter due to higher can penetration for beer packaging.
European segment profit was up roughly $22 million in the second quarter due to mid-single-digit volume growth and the benefits of reduced costs which will continue to flow through the segment in 2014 and into 2015.
As John briefly touched on between our previously disclosed second half LME premium headwind of roughly EUR 7 million and tougher second half volume comparisons our ongoing cost savings initiatives should offset these headwinds in the back half of the year.
Food and household comparable segment earnings were down approximately $8 million in the quarter as low-single-digit segment volume declines and manufacturing inefficiencies in North America which John mentioned earlier dampened the results.
Rest assured that the food and household team has a plan to align tinplate supply with demand in North America while wrestling with the current plant performance headwind to ensure that we are well-positioned going into 2015.
In summary our global beverage operating team continues to execute in tight supply/demand situations across the majority of its manufacturing portfolio while also managing capital projects in North America and Europe to further improve our packaging business in 2015 and beyond.
With that I'll turn it back to you John.
Great.
Thanks Scott.
Our aerospace business continues to exceed expectations.
Solid execution and higher work fees on existing programs successful deliveries and niche product wins for antennas and sensors are some of the highlights.
Contracted backlog ended the quarter at 580 -- excuse me $858 million and as mentioned on our January call we are pursuing some large programs that are expected to be awarded late this year or early next year.
We do have a significant launch coming up for the WorldView-3 satellite by DigitalGlobe later in August and so far things look good here.
Now looking out across our company today.
We are proud of our year-to-date results and the teamwork it took to accomplish them.
Though some challenges still exist we will control what we can control and effectively manage through the rest.
We remain confident in our ability to achieve our long-term diluted EPS growth goal of 10% to 15% in 2014 and beyond while growing both our EVA dollars and free cash flow.
And with that Nelson we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
I wondered on bev cans in Europe is it possible Scott to quantify the benefit you got from just no more drag from the switch of headquarters that you were dealing with last year? And then I wondered if you could also provide a little color on that expansion in the Netherlands? Sure.
The -- I think the Europe benefited from nice volume gains in the quarter.
If you remember year-over-year volumes were a lot tougher in the first half of last year.
This year they've been better.
They're getting the benefits of cost-out some of the cost-out programs that they've been putting in place.
So I think there's really not much of a drag anymore from the European headquarter's relocation.
And then we're getting the benefit of the -- on the tax rate side we're making more money in Europe which has lower tax rates so that's helping us.
The second part of your question was about the Netherlands' expansion and that is moving along and we expect to have that capacity up for the busy season next summer.
And that's all committed volume at this point? Yes we have a variety of contracts to take that volume.
Our next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Mehul Dalia sitting in for Ghansham.
First question just wanted to make sure I heard correctly.
Aluminum premium is expected to be a EUR 7 million headwind in 2H in Europe? And do you expect a price recovery in 2015 as a result? To the first part yes.
The premium that we expect the headwind is about EUR 7 million in the second half of the year.
We had a little of that in the second quarter but only maybe about EUR 1 million.
In terms of price recovery it's too early to talk about what pricing looks like for 2015 but obviously if our price -- or if our costs are going up at some point you need to recover that through the system.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And I know the press release talked about a plant fire in the Americas.
Just being it's the peak season right now is there any worries about supply as a result? Our people did a phenomenal job.
We did have a fire in Monticello Indiana really at the peak time of shipping.
And through the great work that they did they were able to get that plant up and running in different pieces over a period of just a few weeks.
And throughout our system of people doing really phenomenal work we really didn't miss a beat.
So due to the great work of our people it really was less of a financial impact but tremendous work by our people.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And just one last one.
Just wanted an update on the supply and demand balance in China and if you have any initial thoughts on pricing for 2015 out there? We're hopeful that pricing would stabilize.
There's still a lot of -- there's probably 20% excess supply.
We're sold out so we're running kind of hand and mouth in terms of our selling them what we can produce.
So we're pretty tight.
But it is a much more seasonal market too.
Even though there is 20% overcapacity in total finding cans at the peak time is a bit tough.
And I think it's a little too early to tell in terms of pricing in China but hopefully we've seen kind of the bottom.
Things that we've seen recently it doesn't look like it's materially changing from where it's at right now.
The only thing I'd add is the market continues to grow very strongly there.
Mid-double digits 15% 17% which obviously helps to soak up some of that excess supply.
I think as we said on our last call that some of the smaller more regional players continue to put some more capacity in.
But I think the tone and tenor of building plants versus making money has changed slightly towards the positive in terms of looking to make money and make returns.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a few interconnected question on Brazil and Latin America.
Can you talk a little bit about the pack mix change to more one-way during the World Cup.
What are you hearing from your customers as far as retaining that shift impact mix? What do you think is going to happen with the impact of the demand from a possible beer tax coming later in the year? And then how should we be thinking about 2015 just off of a strong 2014 comparison? That's a lot of questions there.
I think the first one in terms of the package mix we continue to see growth in one-way packaging.
The can as a percent of the beer mix is now 45% 46% that's up from 39% 40% I think a year ago.
So things continue to go strong there.
I don't think it was only related to the World Cup because we've seen a consistent growth of that metric over time.
Certainly the World Cup had on the margins some positive.
But there was also a lot of on-premise beer drinking in Brazil which is not cans.
It's more returnable glass.
But I do think overall those trends that we've seen have continued.
In terms of your question about the beer tax we've talked about this before.
They pushed it out on the last call.
It was supposed to happen in June and now they're talking September and it may not happen at all so it's unclear.
It would put a little bit of a headwind into it.
But these things happen from time to time.
What we're hearing is it's unclear whether it's going to be implemented or at what time given the elections going on.
We had a very strong first half of the year than the overall industry did from a volume perspective.
Our plan -- our expectations are it's going to be much more muted is the best way to say it and it's going to be relatively flat is what we're planning on in the second half this year.
Going in 2015 it's really as much about the economy and the economy is not doing all that well.
The elections are coming up.
So it depends upon that.
We certainly don't see any big upside or downside relative to overall volumes.
And so kind of relatively flat to up a couple of percent if you'd ask us right now it's probably what we'd say.
But it is a bit premature to look into the crystal ball for 2015 down there.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up then on that.
How sold out are you with your facilities in Latin America and Brazil specifically at this point? We've got -- it's a very seasonal business there as well.
And we brought up a line -- the last line in the fourth quarter of last year.
So I think from a supply standpoint we've got kind of where we need to be.
I don't think we're going to need to be adding any additional capacity.
Again it's a very seasonal business.
So seasonally you run really hard when it's summertime and you run a little bit less when it's not.
Yes.
We currently have no plans to add any additional capacity but our manufacturing focus right now is really to be as efficient as we can with those assets that we put in place and get more cans out of them.
So I think over the next 12 to 18 months you should expect that's really where our focus is.
Our next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess starting off maybe shorter term talking about the food can business in North America.
As you mentioned and for a lot of reasons who already discussed in the past earnings were down quite a bit.
Is there a way to parse how much of the decline in earnings year-on-year was attributed to say your volumes being off how much of it is just from higher cost to service you're realigning capacity ahead of '15 and how much of it was the self-inflicted? If you can get into any of that that would be helpful and I had some follow-ons.
Well the best way -- I don't know if I can break it into those 3 buckets but I can break it into these 2 buckets.
I think from a volume decline 1/3 of the decline in profits came from volume and 2/3 came from the manufacturing side and whether that was -- it was a relocation of the assets as well as the self-inflicted -- we just haven't been executing as well as we would've liked in terms of these movements and it's going to take some time to cycle through.
So that's -- George that's one of the reasons why we said in the second half of this we're going to see -- continue to face see some of these headwinds.
But I think as we go into 2015 we're laser-focused on making sure these issues are corrected.
Research Division</strong> John on the volume is this market or is this related to the contract that's ultimately coming up I would have thought then have an impact in 2015? Yes.
No it's market related.
We're down a couple of a percent I think as we said.
The packs have started a little bit late but they seem to be -- it depends on where you're talking but they seem to be going okay but I wouldn't read anything into it other than we are off a couple percent just because remember the first quarter the weather was bad and I think even in the early part of the first half of the second quarter the weather wasn't all that great.
So it's kind of pushed the packs out a little bit.
But I wouldn't read anything other than that.
Research Division</strong> That's fair.
I guess my last question on food and again you did very well everywhere else so I apologize I'm focusing mostly on where the performance wasn't as great this quarter.
If we consider the volume effect in '15 as the contract comes off but then the recovery from an operating standpoint from the realignment and then getting back perhaps on the performance relative to where you've had some missteps do you think earnings in food next year are down versus '14? Or might you be flat to up because of the improvement in operations? I think flat to up would be a big stretch as we sit here right now.
But I do think that they'll be down slightly but it's really a function of how much we can approve the manufacturing side of the business here.
We've talked about as we go into the second half of this year that we're going to be looking at executing on our plans that we already have in place to optimize our business going into '15.
So I think there are some puts and takes as you think about '15.
One of the positive things is we should get better manufacturing performance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One last one John I'll turn it over and really more for Scott.
Realizing that it's not '15 yet and it's hard to provide a CapEx forecast since a lot of your projects seem to be back-end weighted off Myanmar the spending this year my guess is a little bit more back-end loaded as well.
Would the project spending spill over into '15 and therefore make it more likely that capital spending is up from 2014 or should we not draw that conclusion? I don't know George.
It's probably too early to call.
There's definitely -- the capital has been slower than what we expected it to be flowing out this year.
And we'll see what we get done in the second half of this year.
But we typically have some amount of carry-out capital and carry-in capital year-over-year and it's really too early to call.
And it's also frankly dependent on the opportunities that we have.
So too early to tell what '15 will be.
I have a hard-enough time judging next quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> First question I have is actually let's jump over to aerospace.
John you mentioned that there are some initiatives I guess from proposals that are out there that you guys are kind of aiming to get a piece off in late '14 and '15.
Are these sort of contracts could make the business a lot bigger or are they more to kind of keep the business the size it is right now? No I think it's more growth look to growth.
We just are aware of a fair number of different program proposals that will be put out for bid in the second half of this year that had kind of fallen to our sweet spot.
So as we think about that whether we win them this year or next year or whether they will be awarded this year or early next year it's unclear at this time because some of the request for proposals aren't even out yet.
But we do see those types of things and I think it will help to grow our business.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then I might have missed this.
But in the Americas segment could you give us a little bit of detail between how specialty did versus standard? And even within standard sort of what was the difference between beer and non-beer? Well I think I'll take a crack at it.
I know our specialty can growth was up high-single digits.
And so by definition our standard container were probably down a little bit.
When you look at beer versus soft drink as an industry and as -- beer was up a few percent soft drink was down a few percent.
And so I think those kind of trends that we've talked about in the pass where the can is taking share the package mix of beer continues to go strong.
The beer market is relatively stable and solid and on the soft drink side they have some challenges in terms of volume and I think the can is feeling it.
So those are the overall headlines.
LLC</strong> And then I guess the last question just really more on a -- I guess from a qualitative perspective.
When you think about the aluminum premium that you're paying in Europe that's something that I would imagine wasn't anticipated when you did your contracts because it seems like that we've seen contracts in Europe as well as North America kind of have as a precondition almost to work.
That volatility in aluminum is borne by the customer and yet here that's not occurring.
So why would there not be a sort of a change in the contracts just too kind of keep that kind of rule of thumb that we've been seeing for the last few years? The pricing in Europe has always been a little bit different but I think you're exactly right.
I think the premiums that we're experiencing now at some point need to flow through the system.
So it's always been a little bit less connected than it has been in North America and other markets.
But you could see -- I mean if we're paying double the premium this year versus where we were 6 9 months ago at some point you need to get that back.
And I think one of the issues the premium historically had been relatively stable and so people never really thought about these big deviations that have been seen.
So your point is spot on that I think as we look at contracts going forward that's one of the things that we're certainly going to be trying to address.
LLC</strong> And I know maybe this is not a fair question but is it possible that premium could go down and you could actually benefit say next year if it's not -- if the volatility is not written out of the contracts? Well I think you'd have year-over-year comps that are easier but I'm not sure it's going to go -- we would be hopeful that it would go back to more normalized level but I'm not sure it's going to go much further than that.
Yes and we think irrespective of the changes at the LME's rules it's going to take some time for this to wind down the premium changes to kind of flow through the system just because the way the whole system works.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on North American specialty cans.
It sounds like volumes were strong.
If you were to look at specialty can margins would you describe those as up year-over-year? Are they stable or is there any pressure there? And I think on the last call you referenced potentially a line addition in specialty cans in North America in the second half if there's any update on that? Yes.
The -- I would say again we talk about specialty as almost like one type of package but it's 20 or 25 different sizes and shapes.
I think from a profitability perspective we really haven't seen any change in that.
We do have some plans that we really can't talk about in terms of putting a specialty container opportunity in North America that we're moving forward on.
And that will be up and running sometime next year so that's the only update I can provide.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And is it possible to give capacity figures for the Holland and the Myanmar lines? Typically when you add a new line for example on existing facility you get depending on the speed and other things 750 million to 900 million cans plus or minus so it's going to be in that range.
And then in Myanmar it really is more about the demand of Myanmar than it is about the capacity.
We expect to be up and running in excess of a 0.5 billion cans in Myanmar.
And as we go forward we'll continue to incrementally build out that line to provide more capacity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And maybe just one last one.
I mean we've seen some undisciplined supply behavior by Chinese producers within China.
As you look at Southeast Asia as an attractive opportunity are you seeing Chinese competitors look at that market or maybe put capacity into that market that doesn't necessarily make sense or is concerning to you? Or how do you think about the threat of Chinese producers in Southeast Asia? Well we have seen a little bit but not wholesale.
In Vietnam there's a Chinese producer that's manufacturing there and some other areas we look from time to time.
It's certainly not as acute as in China itself.
But there's other competitors as well whether the Japanese or whether even some European competitors that have been looking over there.
So it's -- I would say the overcapacity and the thought around that is not as acute as it historically had been in China but it's certainly a competitive world.
Our next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Bev can demand in North America was pretty encouraging in the first half.
Are you seeing that momentum carryover into 3Q? And how has the promotional activity track thus far? Well in terms of continuing it and we're only what 3 or 4 weeks into the third quarter and we haven't seen any appreciable change in the demand profile I would describe the promotional activity as kind of average.
As I said earlier the beverage -- excuse me beer cans were up soft drink cans were done a little bit.
And I think that kind of nears the overall industry for both those categories.
And so we did see some 4th of July some promotional activity but I would just describe it as average.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then it looks like one of your competitors is looking to add some capacity in the specialty can side in Europe and North America.
Any concern of saturation in that market as you bring on your plant in the Netherlands? And I guess you are looking to add some capacity as well next year in North America? No.
Because as you all know typically when we add capacity it's on the back of customer contracts.
And so we feel good about the capacity additions we're putting in.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in China it was pretty impressive that you were able to run your plants that hard.
I would've thought your plants are running pretty full at this point.
Can you talk about some of the initiatives that you have placed to unlock more capacity and is that double-digit type trajectory sustainable as we head into next year if there is demand? Well we are as Scott mentioned hand to mouth in Asia.
And our folks have been doing a good job but it's -- and anytime you're hand to mouth it creates inefficiencies from a logistics perspective because you're shipping cans all over the place.
We are -- while we have no specific things to talk about right now.
We do have to look about capacity in Asia but we're not going to do anything unless we can make economic returns.
And so as this oversupply exists but at the same time the growth continues very strongly we're looking at ways of getting more of our existing system.
And then if we have to add incremental capacity because generally speaking particularly in the South of China is where we're short of cans.
Research Division</strong> And then just one last final one.
The aluminum producers have continued to shift more production into auto and aerospace.
Have you taken any initiatives to lock up supply longer term? We've -- there's been a lot of talk about the automotive business and it remains to be seen where that's going to go.
It depends on the customer what the customer wants to do really and how long they want to go on their contracts.
There hasn't been any appreciable change in how we're contracting for aluminum or what we're doing.
Yes.
The only thing I'd add as well is remember the North American market is not exclusively but largely a soft hole market.
And so the contracting of the rolled aluminum is often done by some of our major customers.
Our next question comes from the line of Tyler Langton with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just with Europe I was wondering -- in terms of taking out costs could you provide just a little more detail I guess on how much you've achieved as of now in relation to your goals and how much sort of is left potentially.
I think we're making a pretty good progress.
And part of it is small often depreciation for projects that had kind of run through their life.
But a lot of it is efficiencies that we're getting out of running the business as a Pan-European business out of Zürich.
And I think there's more to go in terms of manning and efficiency.
But right now I'd say we're on track with where we hope and thought we would be but I think there's more to go.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on the premiums.
I mean if European premiums remained where they are now I guess would there be any incremental hit as you head into 2015? Well you'd have a tougher comp in the first half of '15 but since they've been elevated in the second half of '14 that would balance out.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess sort of just last question.
I know on U.S.
bev cans you've kind of benefited from the closures in the previous 2 quarters.
Is there still room to reduce cost there or is that kind of the cost space roughly where you think it should be? Well I think from a footprint perspective if that's where you're going to I think we're comfortable with where we are right now.
But our folks continuously focus on taking inefficient costs out of the system and we've been spending a lot of time on the freight and logistics side the whole warehousing side there's a lot of opportunity to optimize that.
And so our folks have done a wonderful job and it's part of the mantra.
It's just to continue trying to cost-out.
But from a manufacturing footprint perspective we have no plans to do anything other than what we're doing right now.
Research Division</strong> And those savings from the previous closure have lapsed as of the second quarter? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a few questions on Europe -- I know you kind of talked around this a bit but can you just comment on the sustainability of the 13% EBIT margin? I mean I know that you're going to see some premium headwinds in the back half but it just seems like you previously had said 11% to 12% so it was a little bit better than I was anticipating.
Yes.
If -- remember when you go back and look over the past number of years there's a seasonality aspect of it.
And our margins are usually a little bit higher in the second and third quarters relative to the first and second.
So when we were talking about that 11.5% 12.5% that was really on a full year basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes sense.
And then again do you expect with the situation in Russia and the Ukraine that you might see some fallout of volume basically making its way into other Eastern European markets that might typically go in that direction? I don't think anything appreciably.
We don't think too much about Russia because Russia's from a logistics point of view is very far away from the other parts of Europe.
And Ukraine I know that there is one plant in Ukraine and -- but the overall Continental European market has been regionally strong.
And so when you're talking about a base of $50 billion and it's growing mid-single digits that's a couple of can lines a year.
And so we don't -- if your question is around -- or you're concerned that things from the east may move to the west and it's going to put pricing pressure on it I just don't think on the margin there may be some cans going there but it's not going to have enough of an impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my last question is have you guys made any decisions on leadership in the metal beverage business? Well we're taking our time.
As you see we're performing very well and we're having conversations about that but we have made -- to answer your question no we've not made any decisions.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I wanted to kind of hone in on a couple of areas if I could.
One being as -- recognizing you guys are very very disciplined when you go to put capital in you don't build a lot of spec capacity or do things of that nature.
But -- and you go about that the right way.
So when you put a new capacity or you're in the process of putting new capacity in the Netherlands in example given some of the premium issues can you use that as an opportunity to -- and appreciating you don't want to talk in too much detail about contracts but can you use that as an opportunity to maybe change some of the mechanics of how you do contracts to protect yourself from things like LME premiums and things of that nature? Or do you kind of have to follow industry dynamics and then work as a whole.
Maybe a little color would be helpful.
Well I don't know.
I think they're a bit separate.
I hear where you're going with that in terms of how to use this capacity as leverage.
We're sold out in Europe right now in fact we're real tight in Europe right now and so we need the capacity to come on.
How you negotiate contracts with customers I think is separate and apart from that.
And it's a competitive world.
So if we were trying to do certain things in competition or not we'd have to deal with that.
So that's the way we think about it.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then the second you said that you are pretty in a spot where you're sold out and tight in China we've heard some discussion here and there about some incremental capacity or someone looking to potentially add a facility in I think the in the Weilin area could you comment on your appetite as it sits today given that you're full and seemingly running at okay returns to potentially add capacity? Well I think I mentioned this earlier.
We are looking at that.
We have nothing to announce right now.
But again we are sold out in Asia and as the market continues to grow mid-double-digit to teens 15% 17% we want to capture our fair share of that but only do it if we can be economically sustainable and our folks have done a very good job of -- from a cost perspective and a capital perspective of making sure that we're low-cost there.
And so stay tuned on what some of our plants are but we're looking at various things.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just the last question I had was when we look at kind of your opportunity here in North America in that tinplate business I think you've -- in the past you've talked about looking for ways or options to try to replace some of that lost EBIT that would be from the contract move.
As you sit today you haven't made any other capacity announcements whether it's adds in different areas.
Can you maybe share where you're at in the process? Is that something still you're working on and you'll share with us in the future? Or have you thought about adding whether it's different products or different components aside from moving around some volumes? Yes.
Well I think we mentioned this on our first quarter call but we expect it come late summer early fall to know where we stand relative to this loss of the business and whether or not they require assistance going forward.
I think you should expect that we have plans in place and that we're going to be executing on them in the second half to optimize our business for the expected customer loss.
Some of it includes -- I would not say we are going out in trying to look for new business just to "buy" business.
We're looking at various costs initiatives.
We're looking at various new product initiatives as well.
And you should expect to hear some of those in the second half of this year.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Looking at the total EBITDA for the business in the second quarter it looks like it's up about $34 million.
Is it possible to parse out how much of that $34-million improvement is productivity and sort of how you think about the productivity number in the back half of the year what that number typically is in a given year from a planning perspective? There's always a variety of -- we don't parse it like that.
But I mean the improvement is across the board across the beverage business from volume improvements and cost-outs.
It's a variety of things.
So it's a pretty strong operating quarter.
Yes.
I mean I think it's the only -- I'm with Scott.
I don't think we parse it out the way you think about it but you'll go segment-by-segment and you look at the margin improvement I think we're up in every category except the food and household for the reasons we've talked about before.
So we've had great operating performance and we've had a much more normalized constructive demand situation as well.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then in China I think we had talked about in the past that you'll be able to grow operating earnings there this year even though the pricing environment is tough.
Are you still on track to accomplish that and can you sort of provide order of magnitude on what you think China operating earnings will up in '14? Well we never really get into that.
But I do think that we have some volume improvements.
We have -- as I said we have a little bit higher costs because the volumes have been so strong we've had to move cans all over the place.
And we also even have some currency headwinds with the volume improvements as well as the cost-out on the manufacturing side I think are more than offsetting certainly the -- some of those other headwinds.
Research Division</strong> Got it John.
Just last question.
So your leverage ratios are moving lower even though you're not paying down that given EBITDA's growing.
So is there potential to perhaps buy back above the free cash flow number so north of $0.5 billion given your leverage is moving lower? We look at it all the time in terms of how much stock we're going to buy back.
The guidance I gave you on the call earlier of we expect to use most of the -- all that free cash flow to buy back stock and pay dividends.
That's kind of where we are right now.
Our next question is a follow-up from the line of Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Yes.
I've got just few short ones.
John can you give us some sense of what kind of growth you're seeing in that craft beer business right now.
I think you've got most of the can business in that market.
Yes.
It continues to grow very strong just a data point on that.
The can as a share of the package mix in craft is now right around 10% and that's a great testament to the work done largely by the business development folks.
And so we continue to see very strong growth from the craft side.
It's still not -- it's not a huge part of our overall portfolio but the growth in it is still quite strong and we expect that to continue.
There's been a number of craft brewers they've been putting in new breweries in the Southeast region and I think as we think about the capacity there as well as them putting new can lines and we're seeing good growth there.
Yes.
I mean what would guess your penetration would have been in that market 3 years ago would it have been like 5% or even below that? Less.
Less than 5%.
I would be speculating but I guess 2% to 3%.
It's been growing strongly.
Yes.
All right.
So you're growing relative to the market.
The second one I had just with kind of conflicts picking up globally is there any impact in all of that for Ball Aerospace as you look forward over the next 3 or 4 years? The short answer is there very well could be but it's -- I really can't comment on that.
When you think about -- the geopolitical environment is such that there is regional conflicts everywhere and I think information and surveillance and reconnaissance around that is really important and I think those are some of the strategic opportunities we may have in front of us.
Okay.
About half of that business is defense is that right? Approximately yes.
Yes.
Okay.
And then the last one I had is just for Scott.
I noticed that the repurchase activity this quarter was the lowest that we've seen since the second quarter of 2010.
I just wondered whether we should read anything into that? No.
I actually didn't know that.
But -- usually we try to buy -- I mean frankly we buy pretty heavy in the first quarter of the year.
In the second quarter we probably have more moderate pace so you shouldn't read anything into that.
Our next question is a follow-up from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to pick up on one of the question I think Chris had started in.
And you've teed up given your comments on Asia and China in particular.
So if you have a market that is well if you have a customer base and a supply chain of your own that's sold out and we have acknowledged in the past you've discussed the fact that prices had nothing where you would have liked them to be.
And you're still making economic profit when prices aren't where you like them to be.
You're suggesting that the next move should be potentially to add a can plant in China and I was wondering how you if that wound up being the eventuality how you would be able to preserve or turn to a contract where certainly in the last few years because of market factors not your own it's been less good of a market than you would've liked.
So differently given your sold-out position want opportunity you have to have instead of growing capacity but rather using your sold-out position to optimize your customer mix? Yes.
And George those are all fair points.
The way we kind of think about it is #1 China is such a large country.
And so you have to look at the regional differences.
So that's point 1.
Pricing has come down and as Scott mentioned it has stabilized.
Point 3 is our folks over the last 2 years have done a very good job focused intently on making sure we're low costs from an operating perspective and from a capital perspective.
And so if we were to be thinking about capital going forward I think it's on an optimized capital base at a much lower cost basis.
And the question is at the current pricing can you make economic returns with that? And if the answer is yes then you consider it.
If the answer is no then it gets into how do you improve either 1 of those 3 further from where you are today.
That's the way we think about it.
Research Division</strong> That's fair.
And gets me to one of the other questions that I had.
I mean relative to where the industry was back in the mid-1990s the beverage can business had become actually very good business for a lot of reasons.
You are currently earning a lot more economic profit both as a company as an industry than had been the case given our mix.
But that also brings a challenge because it attracts capital.
So what do you believe to be if you can't get into the number that's a question about productivity.
One of the ways you keep out that capacity is by always improving your own cost position.
To what degree do you think you can improve your productivity and cost relative to the industry in total especially in the growth markets like in Europe or Asia? Where do you think your productivity is leading the market by? Well again I think we've talked about this in the past.
The way that we look at it is let's just pick on China there are a number of smaller more regional ones that are publicly traded and you're able to go and look at their public financial statements and we're able to do that and compare them with ours.
And we see that scale matters in our business.
And we see that we can bring the global perspective to issues at a regional level.
And so if we're having some operational issues in a particular plant in China it's not just the people in the plant that can deal with it we can bring to bear some of our experts around the world to help them on that.
Some of the regional guys don't have that.
So what that ultimately creates is a scale issue where we can see it in the financial statements that our returns and margins are better than some of the local regional guys.
Research Division</strong> That's fair.
I'll drop that line for now.
I guess the last question I had and I'll turn it over.
Realizing that this maybe isn't the most realistic scenario because you're going to win contracts and your backlog is going to get better but assuming these contracts don't come in quite the way you'd expect when would we begin to see your margins in aerospace begin to fade? Right now it's very rich because of where you are in terms of the contract terms the life of contracts and so on.
Would that be a third quarter or of fourth quarter event? Good luck in the quarter feel better Scott.
Thanks.
I don't think it's necessarily a step change function quarter-over-quarter but I do think that we've been -- in the first half of this year and you've seen it both the first and the second quarter we've been doing very well as we've closed out some of these programs.
I mentioned that we have the WorldView-3 launch coming up in a couple weeks.
We delivered that in the second quarter and so that de-risked much of it and we were able to get some benefit there.
I think as we go into the third quarter and fourth quarter you should not expect as much of that as you saw in the first and second quarter.
And then when it comes to the rebuilding that backlog whether it's fourth quarter this year whether it's first quarter next year it's not -- we don't necessarily think about it as a point in time.
But there's a number of opportunities for chasing that are going to be awarded in that timeframe.
And that hopefully we'll start to build the backlog back again and then we'll go through this other cycle of starting the contracts and then performing as we go.
And I'm showing no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Well thank you everyone.
Enjoy the rest of the summer and we look forward to speaking to you in October.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Ball Corporation Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday October 30 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Hayes CEO.
Please proceed.
Thank you Edison and good morning everyone.
This is Ball Corporation's conference call regarding the company's third quarter 2014 results.
The information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Some factors that could cause the results or outcomes to differ are in the company's latest 10-K and in other company SEC filings as well as company news releases.
If you don't already have our earnings release it's available on our website at ball.com.
Information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
Joining me on the call today is Scott Morrison Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'll provide a brief overview of our company's performance.
Scott will discuss financial and global packaging metrics and then I will finish up with comments on our Aerospace business and the outlook for the remainder of 2014.
In short we had a solid third quarter with strong Beverage and Aerospace operating performance and a lower tax rate offsetting weaker can demand in Brazil and North American food.
During the third quarter many of the second half themes that we referenced in our last earnings call came true.
Volume comps were challenging year-over-year aluminum headwinds remained and our food and household segment continued to work through operational challenges at our U.S.
metals service center.
In spite of these challenges there were a number of highlights as well.
Lower operating costs in our European beverage can segment offset the LME premia headwinds we expected.
Continued specialty can and beer container growth in North America nearly offset weaker demand for standard carbonated soft drink containers.
Strong performance in our European impact-extruded aluminum and Aerospace businesses continued.
Ball was again selected for the Dow Jones Sustainability World and North American Indices for the second time in a row.
Our food and household products business received the Partner to Win supplier award from Unilever.
And the Ball-built WorldView-3 satellite was successfully launched from Vandenberg Air Force Base.
As we close out 2014 we remain very focused on controlling the things we can control and managing through this low-growth environment.
Given our year-to-date results and cash flow very strong cash flow generation 2014 is shaping up to be a very strong year for Ball Corporation.
And with that I'll turn it over to Scott for a review of our third quarter numbers.
Scott? Thanks John.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share were $1.10 versus last year's $1.
In addition to John's comments around operating performance and a lower tax rate a lower share count also contributed to our improved results.
During the first 9 months we acquired a net $308 million of stock and returned another $55 million to shareholders in the form of dividends.
And for 2014 the majority of our free cash flow is expected to be returned to shareholders via share repurchases and dividends.
For the full year there are a few minor tweaks to our 2014 financial metrics.
Free cash flow is now expected to exceed $600 million.
Share buybacks will continue to be in the range of $500 million.
CapEx should end the year around $375 million if ongoing project dollars are spent on schedule.
Interest expense will be closer to $160 million.
The effective tax rate is now expected to be in the range of 25% primarily due to the release of some uncertain tax positions due to lapses of the statute of limitations.
And full year corporate undistributed is now expected to be closer to $85 million due to higher medical and incentive compensation costs.
Net balance sheet debt at the end of the quarter was approximately $3.1 billion.
Credit quality and liquidity of the company remains quite solid with comparable EBIT-to-interest coverage of 5.7x and net debt to comparable EBITDA of 2.5x.
Committed credit and available liquidity at quarter end was in excess of $1 billion.
For a complete summary of third quarter results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis please refer to the Notes section of today's earnings release.
Also as a heads-up for the fourth quarter Ball will record a noncash charge of approximately $40 million related to a settlement of pension obligations for certain former employees.
The settlement should reduce the company's pension liabilities by approximately $80 million at year end and generate ongoing administrative and PBGC premium savings for the company's U.S.
pension plans.
Now moving to operations.
Our metal beverage Americas and Asia segment comparable earnings were roughly flat versus third quarter 2013.
While operating performance was excellent at the plant level and mid-single-digit volume growth in China and double-digit specialty can growth in North America contributed to segment results mid-teens volume declines in Ball's Brazilian business post-World Cup muted the segment's third quarter performance.
Ultimately Ball's mix of customers underperformed the overall market post the World Cup resulting in us underperforming the Brazilian can industry which was up around 1% in the third quarter.
More importantly as we head into the fourth quarter in Brazil the summer selling season is upon us and we expect Ball's volumes to bounce back to seasonal fourth quarter norms.
European segment profit was up roughly $3 million in the third quarter on essentially flat volumes and aluminum premium headwinds being more than offset by anticipated cost-out efforts.
As John briefly touched on the LME premium is meaningfully higher than it was in our last conference call and we expect EUR 6 million of premium cost to flow through in the fourth quarter.
Depending on the strength of fourth quarter volumes our ongoing cost savings initiatives might be enough to offset the aluminum premium headwinds for the remainder of this year.
Food and household comparable segment earnings were down approximately $15 million in the quarter as segment volume declines and manufacturing inefficiencies in our U.S.
metals service center pressured the results.
More specifically North American food can volumes were down nearly 8% with about half the decline due to a very poor salmon pack.
On the flip side our extruded -- European extruded aluminum business continues to perform at a high level.
As the food and household segment enters 2015 improving operating efficiencies pruning the manufacturing footprint and related administrative and plant headcounts are items within our control and the team is executing on these initiatives to ensure a rightsized cost base after the January 1 2015 customer shift.
In summary our global beverage operating team continues to execute on near-term capital projects that will improve our business in North America Europe and Asia in the second half of 2015 while also identifying additional cost-efficient high-returning growth opportunities to benefit Ball in future years.
With that I'll turn it back to you John.
Great.
Thanks Scott.
Our Aerospace business continues to exceed expectations.
During the quarter solid execution a flawless on-orbit deployment of a Ball-built satellite and niche product wins for antennas and sensors are some of the highlights.
Contracted backlog ended the quarter at $846 million.
And while we have secured some smaller contract awards in the third quarter larger programs that we are in the process of bidding on are expected to be awarded either late this year or more likely in 2015.
Overall government contracting continues to slide slightly to the right and we're keeping a close eye on this during the election cycle.
Now looking out across our company today.
We are pleased with our year-to-date results and the incredible employee effort it took to accomplish them.
Though some challenges still exist there are also many opportunities to improve our businesses going forward.
With 9 months under our belt we remain confident in our ability to achieve our long-term diluted EPS growth goal of 10% to 15% per year while growing both our EVA dollars and as we've done for the prior 5 years returning nearly all the free cash flow back to our fellow shareholders.
And with that Edison we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> First off for the volume declines in Brazil is it a customer-specific issue that maybe impacted numbers during the third quarter? Any specific region within Brazil that stood out as particularly weak? And also can you quantify what's actually happening in October there? Ghansham this is Scott.
It really is customer-specific.
We -- our customer base wasn't one of the official sponsors of the World Cup and the other customers I think saw a bump in the second quarter.
And I think that got carried into the third quarter.
And so it really was customer-specific I don't think anything to get too alarmed about.
We're seeing -- we're only 1 month into the fourth quarter but it appears like it's tracking back to normal and what we would have expected.
So we expect the fourth quarter to be more normalized.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just kind of thinking about 2015.
Realizing it's a little bit early but I was focusing on Americas Asia you do have an FX headwind there.
The World Cup obviously benefited at least part of 2014.
And North American CSD seems to be sort of a sluggish category and it seems like that's probably a good run rate for next year as well.
Do you actually foresee operating income going up year-over-year in 2015 for that segment? Yes.
I think if you go piece by piece North American beverage continues to perform very well.
Cost-out activities being very efficient.
Growth in specialty can is helping to grow earnings and grow EVA dollars in that business.
Brazil we talked about before even in the second quarter we thought 2015 would be flatter but they're doing some things from a cost-out perspective that I think will help it from an efficiency standpoint.
In Asia the volumes continue to grow.
It's really dependent on pricing where pricing settles out when we get to the end of this year and into next year.
But with volume growth hopefully we can offset any pricing pressures.
So actually do expect it to grow next year.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I could take one second and focus on the metal food and household you specifically cited some inefficiencies in service centers and I was thinking that you were consolidating a few of those.
Is there anything extra to that? Or could you give us some color there? Yes you're right Chris.
We have over the last couple of years consolidated those and we've just -- we've had -- there's been a variety of issues.
As I said on the second quarter some of them have been self-inflicted some of them have not.
And what I mean by that to give you a little bit more color around that is we have actually put -- we took out some of the excess slack in our capacity.
And when you do that it puts a higher burden on you to perform and we haven't been performing as well as we could.
Having said that we've had some quality issues from some of our metal suppliers and some on-time delivery that has exacerbated that a little bit.
The way -- given that it's a service center and it's on the front end of the manufacturing part of our supply chain if you will we did see this coming and that's why we said back at the end of the second quarter that for the second half of this year that we'd have to kind of flow this through and that's exactly what we're doing.
We are very much focused.
We think we are on the right track but it's just going to take a little bit of time.
And as we go into 2015 we expect this to sequentially get much better.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And have you quantified what the headwind was for this or could you? No we talked about -- I think in the second quarter I did say roughly 1/3 of our decline was related to volume and roughly 2/3 manufacturing and that held generally true in the third quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Last question I had was on the Aerospace side.
It looked like you had another really strong quarter there.
And were there any elements that were unusual with performance payments? You mentioned a flawless execution.
Bottom line I guess what we're trying to get our arms around is how we should think about '15 as kind of a normalized rate there given what you see in the backlog that you have today? Yes.
It's -- roughly speaking I think year-to-date we've made about $70 million of EBIT in that business.
And so that averages about what $23-or-so million.
And I do think that our business has been running well.
I think -- the bigger issue I think Chris is not so much that because we've talked about it being lumpy and there wasn't anything out of the -- extraordinary in the quarter.
I think it's really as much as to when the government and some of these commercial enterprises are going to start awarding contracts and getting money flowing.
Because like everything with the government seems like things just start to push out a little bit.
A couple of quarters ago we thought that we'd have a lot of these opportunities decided by the end of '14 and now it looks like they're kind of split between the end of '14 and the first quarter of '15.
And so nothing to be alarmed about.
It's just still sliding a little bit and that's really going to be the driver as we go into 2015.
The next question comes from the line of Tyler Langton with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question on the European beverage I guess volume's down a little bit.
And do you think that's more of just tough comps? Or just -- are you generally seeing a slowdown going forward? I don't know if you have any sort of thoughts on what Q4 could look like.
No it was really tough comps Tyler.
Last year if you remember volumes really started to ramp up in the third quarter and in the fourth quarter.
So we knew we had tougher comps in the second half of the year and that's how that works.
We're seeing that.
Yes.
It's interesting also the weather in the third quarter was not all that good.
And you just look at some of our customers' results both on the soft drink and the beer side.
And when you try and look geography region by region what was going on you really kind of saw it in many different places everywhere from the East to France Netherlands U.K.
They were all softer than we had expected and flat to down slightly actually.
Research Division</strong> And are you seeing any sign that's getting a little bit better through October? Or is it too early to tell? Fourth quarter is kind of a slower volume quarter.
So I wouldn't expect big trends out of this quarter but I think it's kind of normalized.
Yes.
Exactly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just with China.
I mean I guess you -- how much more I guess with your existing capacity do you think you can kind of continue to grow? I guess you're up mid-single digits this quarter.
I mean can you -- outside of capacity can you continue to kind of grow with the market given your current footprint? I think we can continue to speed things up but those guys are doing a really good job of being able to eke out more and more out of those facilities.
But we're still seeing solid growth and so we'll be careful about how we deploy capital.
But where we think we can get decent returns we'll deploy capital and grow.
Yes.
We've been -- as you know we've been full all year but we've been able to "eke out" mid- to upper-single digit volumes.
So at some point in time the low-hanging fruit will be over but as Scott said I think that our guys have been doing a very nice job of getting -- sweating the assets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last question on working capital.
Now it looks like it's going to be a strong contributor this year and sort of in the past several years the same thing.
I mean is there a lot much more -- I mean I know you're always working to get more but could it be as big of a contributor just going forward? Or should things slow down a little bit? Every year I keep thinking we're about done with what we can do.
And our people across the business in the businesses in treasury in IT in sourcing have all done a great job of continuing to have various types of programs to eke out more benefits more dollars out of working capital.
I think we're going to have another decent year this year of being a source of funds and I think it will continue in '15.
How much beyond that I don't know but I think we'll see another benefit next year.
The next question comes from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to focus on the free cash flow for a minute in 2014.
You did take it up by $50 million.
I didn't hear on the CapEx part if you took CapEx down.
But could you walk through the bridge between the $550 million and $600 million of free cash flow in 2014? It's mostly better working -- we still think we're going to spend -- we got to spend at a pretty good clip in the fourth quarter to get to the $375 million but we're still thinking we're going to get to the $375 million.
But most of the change really had to do with working capital.
Yes certainly relative to our prior expectations.
I think year-over-year it's coming from all that.
I think we have much stronger net income and earnings growth as well as working capital.
Research Division</strong> And is the better working capital coming from the facility closures? Or is there something you can point to that was really driving better working capital for the year? I think when you go through our balance sheet you can see it everywhere.
I think we've done a very good job on the receivables side of it.
We've done an excellent job on the inventory side of it.
Our days outstanding have improved meaningfully.
And then on the payables side as Scott had mentioned everywhere from IT to sourcing to manufacturing our folks have been doing a very good job of not only measuring but managing those things.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when I look at -- you mentioned still thinking $375 million of CapEx in 2014.
Obviously some of that slipped from I think 2013 to 2014 before.
But assuming nothing slips into 2015 what sort of step-down should we assume in CapEx as we move into 2015? Well Scott in my life at Ball I've never seen capital not slip into the next year.
So there'll be some that'll slip.
We've got a number of good-sized projects we're working on that will go into '15.
We're adding specialty capacity in Europe and in North America.
We'll be building our Myanmar plant.
We've got some growth in aluminum aerosol.
We're still finding good opportunities to deploy capital and get above target returns.
So right now to call 2015 CapEx is probably too early but we'll update you as we get in -- kind of get into next year on what that might look like.
The next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with Bank of Montréal.
I wondered if we could get just a sense of what you see as kind of underlying beverage can growth outside of North America right now.
What's Brazil doing? What's the underlying market in China? And what are you seeing in Europe? I think one of the bigger trends that we continue to see in most places is that can continues to take share from other forms of packaging particularly in the beer category.
And so I do think -- and we've talked about this earlier on the call that there has been a -- in the third quarter there was a bit of a slowdown in Brazil for example.
The overall market was much more muted after the World Cup.
There was a mix issue relative to customer base there.
But I don't think fundamentally things have changed in a material way.
In Europe the weather wasn't all that great and the overall economy is a bit softer than expected in Europe.
But again we don't see any trends that are different than what we saw.
Over in Asia China in particular but also Southeast Asia we continue to see beer growing faster than perhaps the herbal teas and the energy drinks and the soft drinks and you're seeing cans continue to take share from competitive packages in those categories.
And so nothing fundamentally has changed.
I think there were some issues related to the third quarter that we saw but we don't expect those to be a trend so to speak.
Okay.
And then you guys have talked about a new product for an undisclosed customer in North America in 2015.
I just -- I wondered when we'll be able to get some sense of what the product might be and then the size of that opportunity for Ball.
I think in the -- certainly as we go into 2015 and the first half of 2015 it's something that our customer has asked us not to talk about until they're ready to talk about it.
So we're respecting their wishes.
And finally can you just talk about the metal premium issue as we move toward 2015? Yes.
It continues to be a headwind.
It was a bigger headwind in the third quarter.
It grew a little bit so it's even a little larger headwind in the fourth quarter.
And if it doesn't come down it would be a drag into '15.
But it's been pretty volatile.
But right now we said in the fourth quarter it's probably EUR 6 million or EUR 7 million different year-over-year.
All right.
And it sounds Scott from just listening to other players in the industry that we're not likely to see terms change contractually over the next year or so with regards to passing that premium on.
Is that your view as well? Well you need to have contracts mature and roll off and then renegotiate new contracts.
So you don't get that much of your contracts that roll off each year maybe 1/3 roughly.
And so on new contracts I think it's something where -- it hasn't been just a temporary spike.
It's been pretty much a permanent rise or what appears to be a longer-term rise in the premium.
And so that needs to come into play when we're looking at what the products should be priced at.
The next question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question was just a piggyback on Mark's prior question.
You talked about trends not changing relative to the third quarter's one-off issues but I was hoping you might be able to actually talk specifically about fourth quarter.
In Brazil are you seeing a year-on-year increase at this juncture in beverage can shipments recognizing that seasonally things should be picking up anyway? And for Europe and for China can you talk to what the early growth rates are in the quarter? And then on the same topic of growth if you mentioned it I've missed it.
What did you say your North American beverage can volumes grew at in 3Q? George this is John.
Let me try and handle that.
It's -- recognize that the month of October isn't even finished so it's kind of tough to talk about that.
But in Brazil as Scott said we had kind of expected kind of flattish volumes in the second half of this year and in the third quarter they were a bit softer than that.
But we are ramping up towards their summer selling season and we're seeing much more -- volumes much more getting back to kind of flattish -- it depends as an industry maybe up very very slightly.
But I think for us -- and that's all I can comment on right now because I've seen no industry data for us down in Brazil they have bounced back from what was a soft third quarter full stop.
I think in Asia we're seeing the exact same thing.
We're seeing decent growth there and we're -- we are -- because we're tight from a capacity point of view we are trying to sell as many as we can and get as many out the door as we can.
And over in Europe we have seen -- it really was -- when you go back and look at the quarter it was really in the month of August that we saw some softness.
And I think as you go into the October November December the biggest time of the month -- of the quarter in the fourth quarter is really the month of late November and December because that's around the Christmas season.
And so it's before that but everything's kind of going according to what our expectations would be.
Getting back to your question in North America bev I think the overall market was down call it about 1-ish percent.
We're about the same as well.
I think that when you take a step back Scott had mentioned our specialty was up double digit our beer was up a couple of percent and our soft drink was off 3-ish percent plus or minus.
And so that's -- when you weighted average all of that that's why we're off very slightly relative to being flat.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to food and household.
You said that the manufacturing issues were roughly comparable 2Q to 3Q in terms of their proportion of the year-on-year decline if we look at 2Q '13 to 2Q '14 and similarly 3Q and 3Q.
Yet if I did my math correctly the dollar decline in 3Q versus 3Q was greater than what we saw in 2Q.
So is that just the cumulative effect of seasonality and just you have that much more volume in the third quarter and therefore the inefficiencies were magnified by that? Or were there some other factors at work? And then specific to the manufacturing issues are you having any kind of quality issues either with the sheet you're producing the decoration you're doing anything like that? Or is it more on the if you will the supplier side? Well getting to your question you're absolutely right because the third quarter is the seasonally high selling point for it.
I think it was magnified a bit by that.
And as you know when you -- the turns from an inventory perspective in that business are lower than they are in the beverage can business.
And so it takes some time for it to snake through the system if you will.
And so that's why we're able -- we knew that was -- as we look forward into the third quarter that would be forthcoming.
With respect to the quality issues I don't think -- it certainly is a combination of things but when you're -- we're not running smoothly and then you have some quality issues from the metal perspective I think it puts a little bit more stress on the system.
But again I think most of it we believe is to be behind us not completely but as we go into 2015 we feel pretty confident where we sit right now that we've got our hands on the issue and that we're cycling through these issues.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess my last question before I turn it over.
Our rough math would suggest that pension if we look at current discount rates might be worth a $0.10 plus of headwind next year to the company.
Do you have an official view or unofficial view that you care to share at this juncture? A little too early to tell George because it's all set right at the end of the year.
You're right right now if rates stayed where they're at it's a bit of a headwind.
But part of what I mentioned of this -- or paying out terms -- certain term-vested pension and reducing our liability will help net income next year.
So that's a plus.
So you kind of have to get through the end of the year to know what it will do but I'd say net-net it's probably not a big mover one way or the other.
The next question comes from the line of George -- sorry Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I just had a follow-up question on pack mix shifts.
You talked about the shift to cans you're seeing outside of the U.S.
And I was just wondering about if you could talk about what you've seen in the U.S.
this year.
It seems like cans have outperformed glass more than some of us had expected.
And I was wondering are your conversations with customers accelerating? Or would you expect this to continue into 2015 even if the consumer gets a little bit stronger? I was just wondering if you could provide some detail on what you're seeing in the U.S.
Yes.
I think largely where we've seen the growth and you see it from an industry perspective as well as a Ball perspective is on the beer side.
And the can as a share of the package mix on the beer side has continued to grow even through the first 3 quarters of 2014.
So I think that's a trend that certainly we've been benefiting from.
Some of it has to do with the craft beer that we've talked about in past conference calls.
Some of it has to do with consumer preferences.
I don't see any appreciable change as we go into 2015.
Obviously it's a bit premature.
But at some point in time the can will be well penetrated relative to that.
So I wouldn't expect over the long term that we're going to infinitely continue to gain share as a percentage of the package mix but we've certainly been a beneficiary of it right now.
But we do also at the same time see on the craft side continued good penetration growth into that area.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just shifting to food and household.
Can you talk a little bit more about the India opportunity in extruded aluminum and what your investment there is? Yes.
I don't think we've disclosed the size of investment.
But it's a decent size but not huge to be honest.
But it's a great opportunity as that business continues to -- the customer base continues to globalize.
We had a great opportunity to make an investment in there.
And we expect kind of by this time next year we'll be up and running.
We're focusing on not only the regional customers but some of the global customers as well.
And well as I said we're only putting 1 line initially so it's not that big of an investment.
I think over time we will be happy that we've gotten into the business because in India the market for those containers is several hundred million and it's growing at 20-plus percent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the real earnings contribution there is in 2016 essentially? Yes I think so.
The next question comes from the line of Al Kabili with Macquarie.
John I wanted to circle up with some of your earlier comments on expecting some growth in the Americas and Asia bev segment.
How instrumental do you see North America earnings growth in that view next year? And I guess that's part one of that question.
I do think there is some earnings growth in North America I think both from this mix issue as specialty continues to grow.
But equally important we've been spending a lot of time and there's a fair amount of fruit we can go after in terms of the freight logistics and optimizing our footprint perspective.
Over the past several years we've put some systems in place that have been helpful in terms of providing a level of transparency around our costs on the freight and transportation at a far greater clip than we've had in the past.
And so we have specific plans that we're going after some of those things.
So I think for those 2 reasons mix as well as the cost side of our business I think there's some upside there.
Okay.
And following on that any -- at this juncture can you give us a sense maybe what you think the cost-out opportunity is there? And in addition is there anything specific that you have visibility on some sort of contractual gains specific share gain on cans for next year that belies some of the confidence as well? No.
I think on -- second part first.
I just think we have a pretty good footprint in terms of specialty and that has been growing.
We're overweighted towards beer and that's been growing.
So I think qualitatively we feel okay there.
And then on the cost-out side it's a bit premature to talk about that.
But it's not insignificant dollars when you think about we've got a base we've got a revenue base of well in excess of $3 billion there.
And so I think there's real opportunity there.
I appreciate that.
And then just a second question is just based on -- assuming aluminum premiums look like they'll continue to be a headwind what's the opportunity next year -- some of the -- you've been able with cost-outs this year you've been quite successful at that offsetting this.
What's the opportunity to continue to maybe offset some of the headwinds next year with cost-outs? And just as some of the contracts roll off maybe the opportunity to recover some of the loss margin as well.
Sure.
Well our guys continue to be very focused on taking cost out.
I was just with the European guys recently and they have a number of things that they're working on that will continue to make their business more efficient.
On the contract side you have to wait until those customer contracts expire and you're negotiating a new one before you can get any kind of a pass-through or change the pricing mechanism so that you're incorporating into your price.
So that takes a little bit longer.
But in all of our businesses we're always very focused on costs and making ourselves more efficient and offsetting these kind of headwinds.
The only thing I would add is -- we don't -- let's not forget that we've -- making an investment to continue to grow our business in Oss in the Netherlands.
In 2013 we have been running full out.
And typically when you run full out with the seasonality that business has you leave some money on the table relative to some of the freight and other opportunities.
I'd mentioned that we're doing a lot in North America and we -- I think our European folks are trying to grab on to some of the ideas that our North American people have been doing.
And there's a lot of opportunity.
As we get a little bit more capacity to be able to run a little bit more smoothly I think to optimizing the shipping lanes and the freight costs there's going to be some opportunities over time there as well.
The next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> John I had a question about the -- I noticed the other day or maybe it was yesterday you all appointed a new director to the board.
And I didn't know if that was a replacement director or an -- and it looks like he has quite a background in aerospace.
And I didn't know if that was basically a sign that maybe you're going to make aerospace a bigger part of what Ball is all about.
Well a couple of things I'd point out.
Number one we have -- we like many companies have mandatory retirements for our directors at 72 years old.
And so without going into any details over the next few years we have directors retiring.
And so this was -- Mike's a wonderful person has a great reputation has a lot of great experience not only in the aerospace side but just in general management.
He's a finance person by background.
He ran Boeing Capital for a while.
So he has a lot of very good finance expertise.
And as we started talking with him it just made a lot of sense to get him on board and help with the transition over time as by natural forces some of our board members retire.
LLC</strong> Okay got you.
And then going back to India that's been obviously -- not only does it have great opportunity with being the second most populous country but it's been a challenge for other folks in the packaging business there.
And I was just wondering as you look to India could we see what looks like to be a food can initiative eventually become a beverage can initiative? And if it did does it make sense that -- can you do something like that in baby steps? Or as we've seen in most other places the scale of investment required make that less likely? Well yes.
First in India just so we're clear it's actually an aluminum impact-extruded opportunity.
And as you know the scale of that relative to putting a beverage can line is very very different.
And so this is an opportunity for us to start small and grow as that market continues to grow.
Whether or not we then think about using the experience learned in doing business in India and gravitate it over the beverage can side that remains to be seen.
But you are right the scale of beverage can investments at least historically have been much greater and very different than impact-extruded.
We have -- particularly in Asia our guys have done a very good job of really focusing on how to make smaller-scale investments on the beverage can side and it's probably premature to talk about that a little bit.
But we have no specific plans as we sit here today to be announcing and building beverage can capacity in India.
But certainly you never know.
LLC</strong> And then last quick one.
I know Brazil has seen a major move in the last 5 10 years in displacing other substrates for aluminum.
And I think in the beer category we must be pushing the mid-40s in terms of the percent that are in a can.
And I think North America is around 55%.
If you could correct those numbers and tell us how many more years do you think we get until we hit sort of a saturation point in Brazil? Well it's a good question.
I think your numbers are generally in line with what reality is.
In North -- excuse me in the United States it's actually a little bit higher it's probably 57% 58%.
It's interesting when you go around the world and you look at it you look at the can penetration rates.
In the U.K.
it's north of 60%.
We mentioned the United States.
In other places it's lower.
It really depends.
And there's 2 factors that go into it.
Number one it's consumer preference.
But number two it's also on-trade versus off-trade.
I think down in Brazil you have seen a shift over time as people have more disposable income that they have been moving a little bit more to the off-trade and as they move to the off-trade they've gone to one-way packaging.
And as they go to one-way packaging they've gone to the can.
That is a trend that we see time and time again and I think even you're seeing it a bit in China for example as the can as a share of the package mix continues to grow there.
So I think you're directionally correct.
Will it get to 55%? Will it get to 60%? When will it get to that? It's a bit premature to speculate.
But you're absolutely right probably 6 7 8 years ago it was in the 20% now it's in the mid-40s.
The next question comes from the line of Deborah Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could talk about -- well there have been a few large M&amp;A moves in the space lately.
And I'm just wondering about Ball's appetite for M&amp;A right now.
And if you could maybe contrast those opportunities with internal projects or share repurchases? Yes.
Well Debbie as you know we are all about EVA discipline.
And we've made a tremendous amount of money over time by being very disciplined around that.
And nothing has changed on that front.
Right now as we sit here we see more opportunities actually over the past couple of years in terms of internal greenfield investments where we've been able to generate returns relative to the prices one has to pay in the M&amp;A world.
Sometimes the M&amp;A world comes and goes depending on financing markets and depending on other things like that.
And so we're going to continue to deploy capital per our EVA discipline whether internal or external.
And in the meantime we've created a tremendous amount of value for our shareholders by being disciplined and if we don't see opportunities by buying back our stock and returning it to our shareholders that way.
And so the key point of all that is nothing's changing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess as a follow-up if I could just ask a question on China.
Should we expect Ball to grow in line with the industry at this point without adding new capacity? And then are you more or less optimistic about China than you were maybe 6 months to a year ago? Well I think we're going to -- if it grows at 20% we're not able to add capacity to that level.
So I think we could get a little bit smaller from a market share standpoint.
We want to make sure that we're deploying capital where we can make money.
Am I feeling better or worse about it? It still continues to grow but there's still a ton of competition.
So pricing environment is not as disciplined.
I'm hoping that what we've seen in the last year is the floor of pricing but you just kind of never know.
We're trying to focus on all the things that we can control from a cost-out standpoint to make our business more efficient and more profitable without relying upon price recovery.
And if price recovery happens we'll get a nice leverage on that but kind of control what you can control.
The next question comes from the line of Alex Hutter with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Guys it's actually Phil.
Hopped on a little late.
A question for you Scott.
Free cash flow for 2014 coming in really strong.
I understand that working capital is quite advantageous this year.
But thinking about '15 is $600 million a good base to work on going forward? I'm sorry.
What was the number you threw out? Research Division</strong> $600 million free cash flow.
For '15? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
It kind of depends on what the CapEx is and what working capital is.
So I wouldn't -- I'm not -- what I said was that we could continue to generate money out of working capital next year as we did this year.
And I don't think there'll be a meaningful difference in CapEx so I think it should stay relatively high.
I think free cash flow should stay relatively high.
Whether it starts from $600 million or not I don't know Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then your food can business from a margin standpoint it's a bit lighter than we expected.
Part of that is obviously the operational setbacks.
But how much of that was pricing too? I understand you guys ceded some price in the quarter.
And how should we be thinking about margin next year with one of your lower-margin customers exiting your portfolio? Yes.
From a pricing perspective it's nothing appreciable.
It really had to do with volumes and operating performance that -- Phil I know you weren't on but we talked about earlier.
So if you want to talk offline or if you want to read the transcript that's fine.
As we go into next year margins actually on a pure margin basis it probably should be better because when you look at the mix issues of that I think it's premature to say because we haven't quantified those things.
But we already have begun to take actions to take additional costs out of our system.
And so from a margin percentage perspective it should be better next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just my last question.
On the extruded aluminum business India is a new opportunity for you.
I would have imagined Brazil being a larger opportunity set.
Can you talk about what's available there? Or are you guys approaching it more from an M&amp;A standpoint? Well I think I'd rather not go into any specific details about what our strategic plans are.
But what I would say is on a global basis there continues to be opportunities.
That package grows is growing in many places.
The growth is a bit more muted here in the United States although it is growing here.
A lot of filling is going from the United States down into Mexico and there is some growth down in South America generally whether it's Brazil whether it's Argentina.
In fact Argentina is quite a large user of those containers.
So we keep our eyes on that.
And it's really a function of where we can generate the most EVA dollars whether it's greenfield investments or M&amp;A opportunities.
The next question comes from the line of Adam Josephson from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Forgive me if my questions were asked.
I just got on a bit late.
Just one about 2015 and I know it's early but can you talk about -- in broad terms about which segments you think you can grow next year and profit-wise.
I mean Brazil is obviously facing tough comparisons.
North America both in bev and food are flattish modestly down.
Europe is obviously a tough economy at the moment.
And aerospace has had a really terrific year this year.
So I would think the year-ago comparisons next year would be fairly challenging.
So any thoughts you have along those lines would be appreciated.
Why doesn't Scott -- why don't you jump on beverage and I'll go through the other one.
Okay.
Yes we did cover that but I'll give you quick color on that.
North American beverage we feel pretty good about.
It's all dependent on volume what happens with 12 ounce in soft drink business.
But our specialty business continues to grow and so we've been able to grow earnings and EVA dollars in that business and we'd expect that to continue to occur next year.
China the volumes continue to grow.
And while the pricing environment remains tough we've been able to grow volumes and offset some of that price pressure.
We haven't got into the real season of setting the price for next year.
So we don't have that good of visibility into what '15 looks like but our guys are doing a nice job on the cost side.
In Brazil we've had -- our business probably didn't get as much of a pop from the World Cup as we thought it would.
And so next year does look slower but I think we can continue to improve the profitability.
We're probably not at the pace that we've had a couple of jumps we've had in the last few years.
And in Europe there's a lot of cost-out still going on.
There's volume growth specialty volume growth.
And it depends on business -- aluminum premium come off a lot or not.
If it stays high it is a pretty significant headwind.
So we'll see.
But we feel pretty good about where all the businesses are at and then more importantly the investments that we're making today that will make our business better later in '15 and then -- and definitely in '16.
Yes.
And then from a food and household products as well as an aerospace perspective I think food's going to be challenged and make the profitability just because of this customer shift that's happening 1/1/15.
Although having said that we fully expect to get back on track relative to the operational improvements or issues we've been having in 2014 so that will provide a positive bridge.
It's premature to say can we get back to the full year '14 because '14 hasn't even finished.
I think it's a bit of a stretch but our guys are pushing real hard.
Our men and women pushing really hard on that.
And then on the aerospace side you are right we have been growing very nicely.
We have a number of proposals outstanding as we go into 2015.
So it's dependent upon that.
But I think overall when you take a step back and you think about how we feel not only going into '15 but longer term I think we feel pretty good.
We're making investments in Myanmar.
We're making specialty investments in North America.
We're building -- expanding our footprint in Europe through the Oss.
From a cost-out perspective we've spent a lot of money on the systems side of our business and we see a lot of low-hanging fruit from a freight and warehouse logistics in addition to just continuous improvement there.
And we continue to see opportunities to capture our share of the growth whether it be in the Americas Europe or certain parts of Asia.
And so I think we feel okay as we sit here today looking out saying we can continue to grow our business and make it a stronger healthier business while at the same time as I've said before maintaining a very strict discipline around the EVA dollar generation that we always talk about.
Research Division</strong> And just one on -- John on North American beverage cans.
How would you characterize the market at the moment? Obviously CSD remains fairly weak.
One of your competitors yesterday talked about weakness among the mega-beer brands in the U.S.
But you've got specialty growing for you obviously to some extent.
So to what extent is the growth in specialty offsetting these other factors? And how do you see that playing out beyond this year? Well I think earlier maybe you weren't on but we talked about we had growth in specialty and we had growth in beer this year.
And soft drink has been down.
I think year-to-date we're up slightly.
We're up probably about 1% or so for the full year.
Forget about the third quarter for a minute.
It's driven by growth in specialty growth in beer offset by declines in CSD.
We all know that CSD is under a lot of pressure but let's broaden the definition and what I'm talking about is not just sodas.
It's sparkling beverages.
And I think we've seen some good growth in sparkling waters and some other things like that.
I do know that the soda companies are acutely focused on trying to make sure that they're as relevant in today's environment where health and wellness plays a more important part.
Will they be able to turn that tide at a rate better than they have in the past? It's premature to see.
But I do think as we go into 2015 what I just described even though some of these "mega-beer brands" are having a little bit of volume issues the can has been winning relative to other substrates and we still have only upper single digit if not very low teens penetration on the craft side.
The next question comes from the line of Andrew Feinman with Iridian Asset Management.
Given your EVA discipline and the fact that you have been patient I've been thinking that this was -- this is probably a good opportunity for you to at least consider deploying some capital in the aerospace and technologies business given the uncertainties in that industry and the prices of those companies have come down.
And so then today you announced this really great new board member Michael Cave who you would -- I would think could really help you a lot in that process.
So the question is do you think we might see some opportunities for increases in the value of Ball Corporation through its hidden gem the aerospace and technologies business sometime in the investable future? Yes Andy this is John.
Two observations.
Number one is I think in each and every one of our businesses we're going to continue to be very disciplined on the EVA dollar side of it.
Having said that I do think that as we look into the aerospace side of the business there are opportunities as you point out.
As a wise old colleague once said you need motive and opportunity at the same time.
And so you have to be patient about these things.
But when you're patient and you're digging hard opportunities over time come your way.
And so we have been looking in that area.
Obviously we haven't announced anything.
We made a small acquisition in January of last year that's doing very well and it got us into a whole new customer segment which is great.
So we continue to look at things like that.
So I wouldn't disagree with your thesis that you're laying out.
But obviously we're continuing to focus but we're going to be disciplined.
And we do have some follow-up questions.
The next follow-up question is from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
We will proceed with the next question from -- it's a follow-up as well from Mark Wilde with Bank of Montréal.
Just a couple of emerging markets issues.
One John I wonder if you guys can just explain to us how you think about that Indian market for beverage cans because it's just kind of amazing to me that we're seeing so much expansion in Myanmar Cambodia Vietnam elsewhere and yet that beverage can market in India relative to the size of the market seems so so small at this point.
What will it take for that to grow? And then the other question I have for you is is there a way to kind of tap into some of these smaller but faster growing markets in places like Southern Africa? Can you build a facility that's less than 800 million cans or 1 billion cans? Well as you know scale is important in beverage cans.
We often talk about India being India.
Well there's I believe 26 different states there.
Some ban the consumption of alcohol some do not.
And so you really have to get much more prescriptive in looking at it.
You also have the urban versus rural areas where you have so many people.
But the number of people that can actually consume packaged goods is a very small number particularly when you look at the price points of what they earn versus what it costs to do that type of thing.
And so it's always been the dream that it's going to continue to grow.
But at the end of the day beverage business remains a scale business and that even gets to your question about Africa.
There's only a couple of countries to date that have shown any ability to have enough scale where it makes sense whether it's South Africa or whether it's Angola Nigeria.
Those are really the 3 only places other than the far north of Africa that have any kind of beverage can manufacturing facilities.
As that continues to grow and the middle class starts to develop it's no different than India.
I think that's the most important thing.
The middle class has to grow before you see opportunities there.
The next one is also a follow-up from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I will try to ask these in sequence just given it's late in terms of timing.
First of all John or Scott would it be possible to parse in your CapEx this year and perhaps next year what you're spending on some of the newer initiatives? I'm not asking to identify each one but if maybe there's a way to aggregate the total that you're spending on the cost-out programs the new line in North America Oss and so on.
Would that be possible at least on a public forum? Yes.
I think George if you think about it just take $375 million of capital and think -- maintenance capital is probably between $150 million and $200 million.
So you've got a couple of hundred million dollars of growth if you will growth capital.
From a -- when you say cost-out it really hasn't been that much spending on cost-out.
Most of the spending that we're doing is on adding really a lot of specialty capacity whether it's in Europe or North America or in the past Brazil or even in Asia.
So a lot of it is growth capital with better than typical returns over time.
Now you got to mature into those returns.
But they're investments that we're likely to make.
And also in the aluminum aerosol business we've added some capacity there.
So most of that $200 million of growth is really focused on better returning type projects and not really -- we haven't had to spend a lot of capital on cost-out.
I would say it's a small minority of what we're spending in total.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So the freight and logistical and all the other points that you made in terms of potential cost-out for 2015 and beyond that will require relatively little incremental investment either in terms of capital or for that matter other cash cost.
Would that be a fair point? Yes.
I think in the total scheme of things if you think we're spending $375 million way less than 10% of it is on cost-out stuff.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of looking back at third quarter just from the standpoint of trying to establish a base for the future would it be fair to say that your profits if we actually had visibility into this Brazilian profits were clearly down because of your volume decline but your North American and Chinese -- or Asian excuse me profitability was up year-on-year? Yes.
Looks -- both those businesses have performed well.
Really the quarter was all about -- the miss was all about what happened in Brazil and the volumes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The last one and I'll turn it over.
China can you comment at all in terms of whether you are closer than you were say 3 months ago to a new investment there recognizing it'll be driven by EVA contracts et cetera? And totally switching gears on free cash flow I recognize you raised free cash flow guidance.
A lot of it is from working capital.
But interestingly the third quarter versus third quarter free cash performance was actually down.
So was there anything else -- or how do you raise free cash flow guidance despite free cash being down year-on-year in third quarter? Okay.
Well I guess by the factor of every day that goes on we're closer technically to when we spend capital in China.
So I guess we're closer from that standpoint.
But on a serious note we're continuing to do a good job of getting our cost structure in a place where we can make investments and get the returns.
That's really the magic of future capital spending in China.
We've got to be able to make the returns not just to grow with the market.
The second part of your question had to do with free cash flow guidance and the change? In third quarter.
Research Division</strong> That's correct.
Third quarter this year versus third quarter last year? Research Division</strong> It was down yet you raised your numbers.
You mentioned working capital.
We get it.
But was there anything else that drove that increase in free cash flow guidance despite what was a year-on-year worsening in free cash flow? I see what you're saying.
No.
It's got to do with all the other things non-earnings things that we're doing on inventories payables receivables all of those other factors.
And Edison thank you.
We appreciate everyone's participation on our conference call and we look forward to finishing up 2014 strong.
And we'll talk to you all in January.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Ball Corporation Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday February 5 2015.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Hayes CEO of Ball Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you Rebecca.
This is Ball Corporation's conference call regarding the company's fourth quarter and full year 2014 results.
Before I begin and as you've all seen earlier today we issued a statement confirming that we are in discussions that may lead to an acquisition of Rexam PLC.
The announcement was made following a statement made by Rexam consistent with its obligations under the U.K.
Takeover Code which regulates any such transaction.
Consistent with our policy and the requirements of the U.K.
Takeover Code we will not be making any further comment or responding to any questions on that topic during this call.
I would ask you to please respect the U.K.
Takeover panel and its rules.
Rest assured for any investment that Ball contemplates we will do it through the lens of our disciplined capital allocation process.
Now the information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Some factors that could cause results or outcomes to differ are in the company's latest 10-K and in other company SEC filings as well as the company news releases.
If you don't already have our earnings release it's available in our website at ball.com.
Information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
Joining me on the call today is Scott Morrison Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'll provide a brief overview of our company's performance Scott will discuss financial and global packaging metrics and then I'll finish up with comments on our Aerospace business and the outlook for 2015.
2014 as a whole was an outstanding year for Ball.
Together we executed well through some adversity early in the year and have been focused on positioning our company for success now and in the future as we navigate the dynamic economic and competitive landscape.
During the year we grew comparable diluted earnings per share by 18%.
We achieved record free cash flow in excess of $620 million and we increased EVA dollars by 28%.
Operationally and strategically we are also well positioned.
The cost-out program we initiated 18 months ago in our European beverage can segment has met expectations and positions us well for the future.
Our investments in specialty containers in North America Brazil and in Europe had allowed us to participate in a meaningful way in a key growth segment of the beverage can world and specialty cans now represent over 28% of our mix on a global basis.
Our impact-extruded aerosol investments continue to do well and allow us to participate in another growth segment of the metal packaging world.
The Aerospace team delivered multiple affordable technology solutions to our customers generating record results for the segment.
And as One Ball we achieved recognition for our focus on sustainability and received supplier and/or customer awards in each of our businesses during 2014.
As we move into 2015 we remain focused on controlling the things we can control and on ramping up numerous capital projects on-time and on budget.
We will maximize the value of what we currently do while making investments in new geographies new products new customers and new segments to help grow our company.
We have a number of new opportunities that are at various levels of investment whether it be the next-generation aluminum bottle shaping technology in North America for a customer under a long-term arrangement that will begin at the end of the first quarter a new tin plate aerosol can manufacturing technology that will begin during the second quarter the new Oss Netherlands line that will start up during the second quarter the construction of a new beverage can plant in Myanmar that is scheduled to begin early 2016 the construction of a new aluminum impact-extruded aerosol facility in India or chasing several billion dollars of outstanding commercial and governmental opportunities in our Aerospace business.
We have a good runway as we look out over the next 12 to 24 months.
Now sometimes you are the victim of your own success and we have created some challenging comps for ourselves during 2015 particularly in the first half which Scott will discuss later.
However we feel confident that despite these headwinds of lower food can volumes or Asian pricing of foreign exchange volatility we are well positioned for the long term.
Life at Ball and our EVA philosophy is about continuous improvement so we are happy to take on the challenge.
And with that I'll turn it over to Scott for a review of our fourth quarter numbers.
Scott? Thanks John.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share for 2014 were $3.88 versus last year's $3.28 an 18% increase.
And in the fourth quarter comparable diluted earnings per share were $0.84 versus $0.86 including unfavorable currency translation of $0.02.
For the full year the following factors contributed to improved results: Growth in global specialty cans record earnings in Aerospace lower interest expense a lower effective tax rate and a lower share count.
Turning to cash flow.
Ball generated in excess of $1 billion in cash from operations and generated $622 million in free cash flow in 2014.
We also acquired a net $360 million of stock and returned another $73 million to shareholders in the form of dividends.
In total the cash return to shareholders was below our prior guidance driven by lower than expected share repurchases in the fourth quarter.
Some of what will likely be a question during Q&amp;A sometimes there are limitations as to when you can and cannot buy shares and the fourth quarter fell into the bucket when we couldn't buy shares.
Rest assured that our philosophy of returning value to shareholders has not changed.
And at this time barring additional opportunities for capital allocation in 2015 our free cash flow is expected to be returned to shareholders via a combination of share repurchases and dividends.
For the full year 2015 as we sit here today here's our initial take on financial metrics.
Free cash flow will be in the range of $600 million CapEx should be in the range of $400 million if project dollars are spent on schedule.
Interest expense will be roughly $145 million.
The effective tax rate is expected to be in the range of 26% and 2015 corporate undistributed will be approximately $80 million.
Due to our strong 2014 free cash flow and additional funding at year-end minimal cash pension contributions are required in 2015.
Though as with everyone these days we will be impacted by roughly $7 million of higher global pension expense in 2015 due to factors including lower discount rates and updated mortality assumptions.
Net balance sheet debt at year end was approximately $3 billion.
Credit quality and liquidity of the company remains quite solid with comparable EBIT-to-interest coverage of 5.7x and net debt to comparable EBITDA at 2.5x.
Our current committed credit and available liquidity at year end was in excess of $1 billion.
For a complete summary of fourth quarter and full year 2014 results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis and details regarding the fourth quarter $45 million pretax non-cash charge for settlement of certain pension obligations please refer to the Notes section of today's earnings release.
Now moving to operations.
Our Metal Beverage Americas and Asia segment comparable earnings for full year 2014 were up $22 million on double-digit specialty growth the first half benefit of the World Cup and excellent operating performance in the North American beverage container operations.
As we commented in the earnings release fourth quarter 2014 was impacted by muted volume trends in China and the startup cost associated with ramping up our next-generation aluminum bottle shaping project in our Conroe Texas facility.
The stark reality in China is that can pricing has suffered yet another blow and this has created difficult market conditions.
We will focus our energy on leveraging every single cost-containment and process improvement we can to further improve our cost base and get the most out of our existing asset base in the most effective way.
The team there is working very hard and has the full support of the global beverage team to pull it through.
The Americas-Asia segment as a whole will be solid in 2015 due to better absorption in our legacy North American and Brazilian facilities and the conclusion of start-up costs related to the aluminum bottle project coming online during the second quarter.
European beverage comparable earnings were down $10 million in the fourth quarter and low single-digit volume declines higher year-over-year aluminum premium headwinds and the impact of unfavorable earnings translation.
Full year 2014 results improved roughly $40 million with volumes up almost 3% and cost initiatives -- cost-containment initiatives taking hold.
Good work by all of the Ball Europe team.
Tough year-over-year comps in the first half of 2015 to do FX translation aluminum premiums and the Oss startup cost should be factored into your full year 2015 expectations for this division.
On a constant-currency basis we expect European beverage will increase operating earnings in 2015 as the third line in Oss starts up mid-second quarter.
Food and household comparable segment earnings were only off a bit in the quarter as segment volumes were stable and manufacturing inefficiencies in our U.S.
metal service center lessened compared to prior quarters which impacted full year 2014 by roughly $15 million.
Our global extruded aluminum product line continues to perform at a high level and buys in Europe have held up well given economic conditions.
As the Food and Household segment enters 2015 steel operations have been right sized for its current book of business and will focus on improving manufacturing performance ramping up the next-generation steel aerosol can manufacturing technology to be launched commercially mid-2015 and further growing the extruded aluminum businesses in Europe and India.
There will be some quarter-over-quarter noise in this segment related to the customer shift which transitioned on January 1 2015 but this has been known since late 2013.
In summary our global beverage packaging operating teams continue to execute projects that will improve our business in North America and Europe in the second half of 2015 while also identifying additional cost efficient high returning growth opportunities to benefit Ball in 2016 and beyond.
With that I'll turn it back to you John.
Great thanks Scott.
Our Aerospace exceeded business expectations really an amazing accomplishment considering government budgets in the recent election cycle.
During the quarter solid program execution continued and much work was completed to bid on additional work.
Contracted backlog ended the quarter at $765 million an anticipated reduction year-over-year as we await word on program bids that are in process.
Our capabilities and products are well positioned as affordable solutions.
We just need some decisions and the right decisions at that to be made in Washington.
Now looking out across our company today we are thankful for the team we have the incredible results we've produced last year and the progress we are making on new capital being put to work.
2015 presents some known headwinds other companies are dealing with as well: FX pension expense and aluminum premiums to name a couple.
We are excited about the many opportunities in front of us to improve our business.
Our long-term diluted earnings per share growth goal of 10% to 15% is out of reach for 2015 as we sit here today.
We currently expect the earnings run rate to pick up steam in the back half of 2015 as projects ramp up and carry us onto the bridge for building into 2016.
In the near term our businesses are generating significant free cash flow for us to put to work.
So let's start the Q&amp;A so Scott and I can get back at it.
And with that Rebecca we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from George Staphos with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question I had for you can you give us a little bit more detail in terms of what's happening with Asian pricing I'm guessing specifically Chinese pricing what kind of impact it is.
Can you also comment as to what FX headwind from an EBIT standpoint or from an earnings per share standpoint is built into your directional guidance and I had a couple of follow ons.
Sure George.
This is Scott.
On the Asian pricing it continues to be very challenging and we thought last year it might have been a new low but I think it continues to have pressure on it.
I'm not going to quantify it because it's a pretty fluid situation.
But it's obviously impactful.
I think the other parts of that segment will do well and make more money and it's a question of can they offset what the -- the pressure that we'll have in China.
So on the second front on the FX side if the euro -- if you think about it this way from an EPS standpoint roughly a 1 point move in the euro is about $0.01 a share roughly.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Thank you for that.
To the extent that you can comment could you put a range on what you think your EVA per share might grow by this year or -- no maybe not I mean I shouldn't be too judgmental here but what's the direction this year on EVA per share.
Could you put a bracket in terms of the growth rate? And then I guess I'll turn it over at that point and come back in queue.
George this is John.
From an EVA perspective we were up very strong in 2014 up 28%.
It's going to be a bit of a challenge.
We have a lot of investment going in it's not generating any return right now because it's in the startup mode so I would expect our EVA dollars to be roughly flat maybe down a little bit depending on how the year goes.
But -- and that's largely due to this capital we are putting out -- a lot of it doesn't come on until midstream and when it is coming on we've got some start-up cost associated with it.
I would expect EVA dollars George they're going to be up in North American beverage it's going to be up in Brazil and it's been a be up in Europe.
The other businesses will be flat to slightly down.
Our next question comes from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on China for a minute.
Scott I think you also mentioned that volumes were actually muted in the fourth quarter.
Can you talk about that and then can you also talk about from the pricing front I thought some of your business there was on a little bit longer term contract.
Can you talk about what's more spot versus longer-term contract there? Yes.
Our volumes grew kind of low single digits in the fourth quarter and I think everything in China seems like it's slowing down a bit.
So I don't think that was uncommon.
We had been at a better growth rate throughout most of the year.
From a pricing perspective that's why it's kind of a mixed bag.
There are some contracts that have longer-term nature to them but there is a lot of spot business and that's what I was referring to.
Yes I think the main dynamic there Scott is there -- we continue to see capital going in and it's just the -- it the overcapacity remains there and I think so that means on a spot pricing perspective that's where it puts the most pressure on it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then taking a step back and looking at the broader beverage can business can you talk about what you're seeing from your customers as far as global pricing initiative if you've seen this in your markets how long you've seen it for and maybe sort of what impact do you think it might have on margins on a go-forward basis? When you talk about global pricing you're talking about our product to our customer I presume.
There is -- we have a mixed bag around the world regional global.
We don't -- as Scott said we expect many of our beverage can segments with the exception of China to be up year-over-year.
And so we're -- some of that's a function of volume some of it's a function of net price some of it's a function of our mix.
So I think we feel pretty good right now.
The beverage can as an industry is actually doing quite well relative to other substrates.
You've heard me talk in the past about Kansas as a percent of the package mix in the beer category and I think in every region we operate it's up.
It's over 60% U.S.
it's over -- it's around 45% in Brazil.
It's north of 20% in whole in Europe obviously it's a little bit stronger in the U.K.
for example relative to some other places.
And then even in China we've talked about 5% 6% 7% as a share of the package makes it up to 10% now.
The fourth quarter was soft I think the industry was down we were up a little bit.
But putting that aside as we go into 2014 we continue to believe the beverage can has a bright future.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one last one on working capital and the free cash flow guidance.
Looks like you've built or used a significant amount of cash or sorry you had a big source of cash in the fourth quarter and in the full year of 2014.
What should we be thinking about in 2015 around working capital? We think it's going to be a source again.
We continue to -- our folks both from a treasury perspective and an operations perspective continue to find ways to get more money out of the working capital so I think it's going to be another source in 2015 as well.
Our next question comes from Ghansham Panjabi with Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'll skip the question on what your acquisition pipeline looks like but good luck with what you [indiscernible] this morning with Rexam.
Maybe we can start on the volume outlook by region for your beverage can business for '15 and maybe you could start off with Brazil just given the comp set the industry had in the first half of '15 from the World Cup? Yes.
I think obviously that leads tougher comps for Brazil definitely.
We think there'll be market growth but we think it's going to be pretty low.
The economy there has got some struggles and we'll have to wait and see how it plays out but we're not expecting -- we expect it to be positive but not in the huge way.
North America we kind of return to more normalized trends I would say last year and we expect that to continue.
The soft drink business continues to be under pressure but beer continues to hold up pretty well and a lot of new segments continue to hold up well and specialty is doing well.
So probably somewhere in '15 as it was in '14 for us.
Europe we think the market will grow again.
Kind of low to mid-single digits.
You know what it's been growing over the last year or so.
And China China's slowed down from where it was before and I still think it'll grow but the question is how much.
The other thing I'd add Ghansham is this last summer in particular we had World Cup we had other things going on.
This summer as we look forward there's not many of those either European championships or World Cup or Olympics or other things like that.
And so it's an off year relative to those big promotional types of things and so that's factored into what Scott just says.
And last year I mean for instance in Europe the comp in the first quarter was up quite a bit and we don't expect that again.
Research Division</strong> And then just in terms of what you said in your press release I'm sorry if I missed it but the lower exports you said that's out of Europe can you just expand on that? Yes.
That's really Middle East and Africa and I think in part because of some of the geopolitical issues going on there.
The export market for us at least was down particularly in the fourth quarter.
I think our core European volumes are actually up slightly.
It's just the whole segment was down because the export market was down.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> When you look at the free cash flow guidance for 2016 which is actually quite impressive because on my numbers the working capital contributed $171 million last year.
Can you help us get there? First of all on the pension you said no contribution in '15.
What was it in '14? I would just do it this way I'll look that up with the -- from an expense standpoint the expense will be up about $7 million but the funding for '15 will be less than $30 million.
LLC</strong> Okay less than $30 million? Yes.
We funded a lot in '14.
LLC</strong> Okay.
How much in '14 did you fund? Well Scott's speaking I think it's fair to say in the U.S.
we don't expect hardly any if any funding.
I think a lot of the European particularly our German pension is more of a pay-as-you-go and so that's where that funding would come from.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And maybe I missed this but when you look at 2015 volume in the U.S.
how would -- and you say some more -- if you look at it on a more normal basis does that mean that on a net basis you see maybe a little bit of growth as the standard cans probably overall decline but most of that's from soft drink with some beer offset? And then specialty also will more than offset the soft drink decline so that you do see a positive can number including specialties in the U.S.? Or is that too strong? Let me preference this by saying it's the beginning of February and so tell me what the weather's going to be like tell me what some other things are going to be even with the price of gasoline coming down you really haven't seen a pull through from the average consumer.
They've been trade -- they aren't buying more they're trading up a little bit and they're not buying more.
But I think what Scott was talking about when you look at 2014 and the U.S.
the overall beverage can market was down less than a percent it was down 0.07%.
Euro was up and we see those trends continuing whether it's the craft beer or whether some of these other segments that are growing has been beneficial with can as the can continues to take share from other packaging substrates.
And it's really all past few years it really has been the softness in the soft drink.
It's not as if the can has been losing market share relative to PET and other substrates it's just overall soft drink volumes are declining and to date our customers haven't been able to arrest those declines.
So as we look into 2015 we don't see those trends changing materially.
Scott did mention that some of these other alternative segments whether it's energy drinks or sparkling waters or other things like that that there has been some decent growth in that and a fair amount of specialty goes into things like that.
So I don't think the core trends we see a fundamental change to as we look forward the next 12 months or so.
Back to your pension question.
We funded a little over $140 million in '14 in the pensions.
LLC</strong> Very helpful.
And that definitely helps us to -- that $600 million makes a lot more sense now.
And then when you look at the food can business first of all I think John mentioned some $15 million issue and maybe just to clarify what that was in '14.
But if I hear you right you're saying that with the work you've done to mitigate some of the changes plus the growth you should -- you would expect to see an up second half and maybe a chance of at least a flat full year on the EBIT line there.
So if you could address those 2 points? Yes I think a flat EBIT year for the full year is a very tall order.
We had -- the $15 million I referred to was manufacturing inefficiencies on the particularly on the service center side.
We've made some decent improvement on that but that's a longer runway than I think you may be expecting.
And then with the -- just the overall market continuing decline continued with the loss of the ConAgra business.
I think a year ago or so we thought we might have a shot at being flat EBIT in 2015 in that segment.
I think it's a bit challenging.
And that's on the food side.
There's a lot of good things going on on the impact-extruded side as well as this new technology on the tin plate aerosol side.
So you see a blend of it but I still think with all those because of the start up costs on the India project because of the startup cost related to the G3 I think it's a tall order to think about -- we'd be flat in that segment.
And our next question comes from Tyler Langton with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just Europe the sort of the drop in year-over-year profits.
Could you just provide a little color about I guess what kind of came from sort of the lower volume premiums I guess currency? And then maybe what I guess was offset by cost reductions? Yes.
The cost reduction continues to -- they've really done a nice job of getting the cost out.
It was really premium.
We've got a little bit more headwind about $7 million in the fourth quarter of euro headwind with the lower volume and then FX that's kind of a total difference of why it was down.
Why have a little bit more premium that will come through in the first half of '15 and then we'll be at more even comps year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> When you think of cost reductions I guess for Europe for this year for 2015 I mean can you kind of match what you did in 2014 or is that going to start getting tougher? No it's -- I mean the guys did a really good job in '14.
A lot of cost came out in '14.
I think there's still -- they have a lot of aggressive plans continuing for '15 but I wouldn't expect it to be at the same level than it was in '14.
Research Division</strong> And then just I guess comp question for food can.
I mean the sort of the improvement this quarter just for the service inefficiencies I mean were those largely down this quarter or were they still having an impact? Well it still has an impact.
As I said the runway of it's a bit longer and I recall last summer we talked more specifically about it.
Some of it was self-inflicted that we weren't running as efficiently as we could or should be and some of it was outside of our control in terms of quality issues with some of the tin plate.
I think the quality's gotten better.
I think our manufacturing efficiencies have improved as well.
But again I think you're -- we're going to see steady improvement throughout the year and so it's not just a big bang theory that it happens starts and stops in one period.
Our next question comes from Philip Ng of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Can you kind of help frame what the headwind will be on a year-over-year basis for metal premiums in 2015? We have a little bit more of it probably in about another $7 million to $10 million in the first half of '15 and then we get to the second half where we'll get some more even comps.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just curious I know a portion of your business resets every year in Europe.
Were you able to pass some of those headwinds cost headwinds through via pricing this year? I think the best way to describe it Scott had mentioned on a currency-neutral basis on a euro basis our segment we expect to be up year-over-year.
Some of it's cost some of it -- someone mentioned earlier about pricing and it's been a bit difficult but on the other hand we've been able to take this time.
We're limited to be able to try and recover the premium and other costs as well.
Research Division</strong> There's been a clear bifurcation in how demand is tracking at least for beer in North America bev cans versus glass.
How much of that is driven by the push into specialty cans versus the brewers just trying to push volume through the grocery channel and do you see that dynamic kind of continuing into 2015? I really don't think it's pushing volume through the grocery channel.
When you look at the beer market it was relatively flat for example in the fourth quarter and it was relatively flat for the full year.
The only thing that was really growing in a material level was this -- the craft beer industry.
And that was predominantly as you know 100% bottle business.
And now it's over I think it's 12% plus or minus don't hold me to it but it's in that range as the cans as a share.
And so cans are getting an inordinate share of that.
And that's one of the reasons why even though the beer market is relatively flat I think cans are performing quite well.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
One of your competitors on the food can side in North America announced they're going to be adding a plant in the Midwest it doesn't sound like it's going to be incremental from a capacity standpoint.
But just curious do you anticipate any impact from that move and can you remind us what percentage of your business in North America food is locked up from a contractual standpoint the next few years? Yes I don't have that last question first but the vast majority of it is.
I know we have a couple of contracts outstanding but no the answer to your question is we are aware that they announced in their earnings that they're going to be rationalizing and building at the same time and we don't expect any appreciable change to the market.
Our next question comes from Mark Wilde with BMO Market.
I know you don't want to get in front of your customers here but I wondered if you could give us just any color incremental color on that new bottle.
Is it a conversion of an existing line is it a new line any sense of kind of perspective volume there incremental volume for you guys? I will tell you it's a new line it's new capacity and it's -- and we'd rather not go into the specifics about the customer or the segment but we're excited about this.
It's a new a next-generation bottle shaping technology and it fits right into the sweet spot of our drive for 10 vision around expanding our new product portfolio.
Research Division</strong> And is it proprietary to this customer for any period of time? I'd rather not get into that.
Okay that's fine.
Second on the FX side does that FX impact that you talked about does that include this increase we've seen in the Swiss currency because I know you have your European headquarters in Switzerland? Yes.
Our -- the exposure there is really just on the people that are there for salaries.
So we don't have a lot of cost in Switzerland.
So it's not that significant.
Remember our European business is a euro-denominated business.
Okay.
All right.
And then the last question I had John was just on Aerospace.
Last quarter you talked about perspectively having some news for us on this earnings call about new wins.
I noticed that your backlog is down by about $70 million quarter-to-quarter.
Can you just talk with us about sort of where some of those bids are right now and what you think time frame might be? Gosh I wish I could tell you because every time we think something everything moves to the right.
The dysfunction in Washington continues and that we have -- I will tell you this we have more bids outstanding than I can ever recall in the history of Ball Aerospace.
We do expect some of them to happen first quarter.
I think more likely they're going to happen in the second quarter.
We actually won some things some commercial things in the fourth quarter.
The issue there is these commercial entities are in the fund raising mode now.
And so they need to raise the financing but whether it was the 2 things that we announced in the fourth quarter we feel pretty good about them but they they're in the process of raising money.
So it's a whole amalgamation of things and as you know even though we've won those projects for those commercial entities we don't count them in backlog until it's funded.
And so those are some of the things that we had referred to and it's just -- it's taking candidly a bit longer than we like.
But despite that the long-term prospects of the Aerospace business we feel good about.
Okay.
And would you say today John that you've got sort of even more pipeline than when you talked with us in the -- at the end of the third quarter? Yes I think we do.
Our next question comes from Al Kabili with Macquarie.
Just on the specialty can start-up cost if you could just help us size what that was in the fourth quarter? And do you anticipate any spillover of those costs early in the year? Yes.
It was around $6 million in the fourth quarter and then we'll have some of that in the first quarter too as we get to production capability near the end of the quarter.
Okay.
Okay.
Got it.
And then you would expect by 2Q hopefully we're sort of at a more normalized operational rate there? Yes.
These start-ups -- our guys do usually a pretty good job of getting these things going and running well but there's always a learning curve as you start the line and you start to get into it.
But that pressure should reduce as we start producing cans and selling cans.
Okay.
Got it.
And I think last call you had mentioned perhaps a chance with some cost savings activity that the Americas and Asia segment could be up year-over-year.
But with the additional pressure I guess in China maybe some of these start-up costs maybe you could if you could update us on your thinking there? Yes.
I think the -- yes I think we still have a shot at it of offsetting the decline in pricing with the performance at the other segments or the other areas where we produce.
But it's a little too early to call yet.
It depends a lot on volumes and how things mature through the year.
Okay.
But assuming like similar volume trends in the U.S.
and similar trends in the industry that we had last year you still think that there's a shot at offsetting some of these? Yes I think there's a shot at it I wouldn't say -- I wouldn't call it victory by any stretch yet.
Okay.
All right.
That's helpful.
And then I guess last question's for Scott.
It's just on the interest expense guidance I think you'd mentioned $145 million and I believe this year it was $160 million.
So are we -- or last year I'm sorry in '14.
So is there an assumption of debt paydown or some refinancing going on in that interest expense outlook for this year? Thanks.
We have a variety of plans.
So that -- I'm just giving you the number that we think we'll end up with at the end of the year.
Our next question comes from Anthony Pettinari with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> In American bev in Brazil you talked about the timing of contractual payments as a headwind and I was wondering is there a portion of EBIT that gets pushed into 1Q or 2015? And then some packagers are flagging electricity cost in Brazil as a major headwind for '15.
I was wondering if you could comment on electricity cost for your business there? Sure.
The contractual payment part of it will spread out further.
I wouldn't come at it early in the year it will spread our further it was -- it's complicated.
But we'll pick that up but it's over a period of time.
On the energy side it's definitely with the drought that's been going on energy costs have been going up and that will be -- we do have a bit of a headwind from that standpoint in Brazil in '15.
But despite those energy headwinds we still expect the operating performance to be better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Food and Household side I was wondering if it was possible to size the headwind you had in the quarter from the Danville closure and the lower production at Oakdale? Yes I don't have that in front of me.
I don't think it was material is what I'd say.
The profitability in that segment the fourth quarter year-over-year was down very slightly and our volume on the food side was down very slightly.
So I don't think it was material.
Those closure costs runs through business consolidation so it doesn't show up in the segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final one apologies if I missed this earlier but do you have a tax rate guidance for 2015? I think we said 26 around 26%.
Our next question comes from Adam Josephson with Keybanc.
Research Division</strong> You talked about beverage cans doing well in a number of regions.
Can you hazard a guess as to what utilization rates are in North America and Europe? And along those lines do you think there's a need for capacity reductions in the foreseeable future in either region? Let's go region by region.
I think Europe as Scott had mentioned it was growing low to mid-single digits.
I think it was 3.5% plus or minus in the growth.
And so we're putting a new line in Oss because we are sold out there.
And so I think the capacity in the industry is reasonably high there.
I think as you go into North America I don't want to speculate I can only speak about Oss.
We're running relatively full.
We actually were up slightly because we were more and more weighted towards the beer segment and the specialty side of the business.
And so we feel pretty good about that.
I can't comment on what others are thinking.
I can just tell you that for us we have no plans in terms of further plant rationalization as we sit here today in North America.
Research Division</strong> And just a couple of others.
One on EBIT for 2015.
Obviously you've talked about pension expense FX aluminum premiums Chinese pricing pressure Aerospace backlog being down the ConAgra contract startup et cetera.
Can you give us some sense as to assuming you expect your EBIT to be down this year rough order magnitude? It's too early to tell.
I mean this is what I would tell you is you mentioned a lot of the headwinds but we also mentioned a lot of the tailwinds that we have.
Whether it's this new shaping technology for bottle cans in North America and getting that up and running whether it's the new tin plate aerosol technology that we're going to be rolling out whether it's the Oss facility that's going to be starting up in the second quarter whether it's about the continued cost-out and not only in Europe but the folks in North America that have been doing a wonderful job and that's in part why our working capital's been positive because they're on their game and being able to reduce inventories and other things like that.
So we have a lot of good tailwinds as well.
As I said as we sit here today given the headwinds you said and given the tailwinds I was mentioning it's going to be -- I don't think not only don't think it's going to be very difficult to make 10% to 15%.
But we're -- operationally we're very strong we're making investments we're doing the right things we're generating tons of cash and at really your -- at the end of the day your question the answer to it depends on volume.
Research Division</strong> John thanks.
And just one more on consumer spending.
Have you seen any pick up in your business on account of the recent decline in gas prices and do you expect one? No we haven't so far.
But that doesn't surprise us because the slowest months of the year kind of the first couple of months of any year.
As we go forward I think there is a -- we believe that there would be a reverberation and a redistribution to those consumers.
Anecdotally I know that customers are not necessarily buying more at the convenience store when they go in and pay for their gas.
They're trading up right now.
But speaking to customers and others I think people expect that to become more of a tailwind as we get to the summer.
But that obviously depends on a variety of other factors as well.
Our next question comes from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
First with the shaped aluminum bottle stuff I'm presuming and help me if I'm wrong if that starts to show up in 2015 and 2016 through revenue and through earnings et cetera is this in the metal food side -- the target for this is this beverage or is this food personal care or what have you? And so what segment might it show up in? Well we have two.
The new bottles generation 2 bottle shaping technology is in the beverage side.
And as we said we expect that to be up and running by the end of the first quarter.
So the way I think about it I wouldn't expect much in the first half of the year but in the second half the year that's when you really start to see it.
But we also have this new tin plate aerosol technology.
That won't get up and running until mid -- perhaps even late second quarter so you won't really see much of it this year because by the time it's ramped up the large season in terms of tinplate aerosol sales is over and so I think that's more of a '16 opportunity.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then maybe if I could dissect by some of the segments.
I think you already earlier said that it's -- and I'm really thinking about these things on an EBIT basis year-over-year '14 -- I'm sorry '15 -- '14 '15.
I think you said that the metal food household segment would be difficult to be flat and may have some headwind.
As we think about some of the other regions or some of the other element Europe in particular with -- if you quantify it or could you quantify for us how much of a headwind currency is and is it likely that EBIT may be down in Europe given more metal premium and currency there and then I'm going to kind of work through some of the other geographies as well.
Well I -- what I said in Europe is on a constant-currency basis their earnings will be up.
Now what happens to currency I'm not smart enough to know what will happen this year.
So it really depends on where that settles out.
But on a constant-currency basis though we're...
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes no I can appreciate on a constant-currency basis given some of the work but at where we sit today at $1.14 on the euro and with aluminum premium is it likely to be still up or flat down? No.
I think if you -- I made this comment earlier.
Think about a 1% move in the euro is roughly a $0.01 impact to the company.
The reason why Scott answers it that way don't forget we have a bunch of euro-denominated debt.
Sure pension expense...
Exactly.
And so they kind of offset so we look we don't necessarily just look at it on an EBIT basis because that's pure translation.
You got to look it on an economic basis which includes the interest expense and other things like that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then when I think about -- last person I want to ask is John I want to take you back to 2009 when you purchased some of the metal container assets.
Given your experience with that and working through that process I think you elected if memory serves to buy 4 of their facilities and left some of the other piece that's still there.
At that point in time given -- again as you work through that process once you learn do you feel that you would've been able to shepherd through the process to have acquired the whole piece from a regulatory standpoint? Or do you feel that that would've been too difficult of a hurdle? That would be pure speculation and I'd rather not comment on it.
Our next question comes from Robert Krayn with MidOcean Partners.
I was wondering if you guys could reaffirm some kind of leverage targets and then maybe comment on if something either tuck-in or anything were to kind of come up would those -- will leverage targets be flexible or if there's any kind of other outer bounce? And then also if you can just comment on your cap structure.
You've got some bonds that are becoming callable in a couple of weeks here I'm wondering your thoughts on that.
Yes I'm probably not going to comment on any of that actually.
I mean we're full on a lot of cash our balance sheet's in very good shape.
I think we have a lot of flexibility and I'll probably leave it at that.
[Operator Instructions] We do have a question from Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> One of your competitors had a pricing reduction for specialty cans in the U.S.
rolling through in 2015 and I realized sizes and contracts differ but can you comment as to how this might relate to your capacity and could this have an impact when you're making decisions about additional conversions going forward? What I'd tell you is from our portfolio perspective our pricing is stable in that part of the world.
And so as you know any investment we make we look at what the terms of the contract are and make our decision there.
So that's probably all I should say.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question just on China.
Again a lot of people have talked about volume and price but I think incremental supply is sometimes hard to pin down in this region.
I'm just curious with pricing and volume being a bit of an issue are you seeing the influx of capacity slow down? I think it's slowing down but there's still a lot of excess capacity.
Yes.
There's net capacity additions but it's not at the rate it was.
In part we think because the can market slowed down a little bit.
But again let's put it in context.
For the full year I don't have the number it front of me but I think it was up it was up double digits as an industry.
As the fourth quarter it was down.
So it's been strong and there's many small individually owned plants that they're have been adding capacity on that and I think they're -- we're starting to see a slowdown there.
But we started to see a slow down before too and it still had net increases.
Yes I think full year it's still up 13% roughly.
Research Division</strong> Can you remind us what the penetration rate is for cans right now in China and how that differed a year ago? Yes.
It's -- on the beer side and that's what really we track because the information's better but it's about 10% cans as a percent of the package mix and that's gosh I don't know exactly what it was last year.
I want to say 8% but it's been growing which is helpful because as we all know China is the largest beer market in the world.
Our next question is a follow-up from George Staphos with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Recognize that you may not be able to cover too much detail here.
I just wanted to try to follow on.
One the new shape and size aluminum aerosol -- or excuse me the aluminum bottle line.
Does that technology allow you to on the fly adjust shaping? Obviously you probably have to change tools and dies and that sort of thing or basically it produces one type of bottle? It's a new technology George and once we get it up and running we'd be delighted to have you -- to show it to you.
We'll pass along that suggestion to our manufacturing guys.
I'm sure they'd love it.
Research Division</strong> I had a similar question and therefore I'm guessing it's going to be a similar answer on the tinplate technology line.
But can you share any more color in terms of what makes it new there? It is -- same answer George.
I would just tell you it's a new technology on the way to make tinplate aerosol containers that we think have significant opportunity for metal savings.
Research Division</strong> I guess the last question I have I'm just going through my list here.
Taking a step back you mentioned that the can is doing very well in most markets and I'm paraphrasing there correct it how you'd like.
As you think about the next 2 3 4 years whatever the right longer-term interval is from your vantage point what do you think the biggest challenge or two is to the beverage can? Is it global procurement is it some potential supply threat on aluminum sheet because everything now is going to go into automobile.
What do you think the biggest threats are and how in turn do you manage your business against those threats? Yes thank you George.
It's -- I hesitate to answer that question because I don't want to run afoul of anything that we're very respectful of relative to announcements as far -- so I'd rather not answer it.
But I would tell you this the -- not the beverage can but the industry writ large there is continued -- there's relatively anemic growth and where there is growth there's a lot of competitors.
And I say that whether it's in the automotive market or whether it's in the metals market or other things like that.
I do think we have done a very good job at Ball Corporation really focusing on the supply chain and like you said on the working capital side.
And as we go forward we're going to continue to do what we've been always doing.
Our next question is a follow-up from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick follow-up on the North American beverage business.
As we go down the aisles in the grocery store these days it seems like there's a proliferation of maybe trim cans coming into the market.
Can you talk a little bit about if you're seeing that as well in your business and maybe what the outlook is there? Yes we're yes.
The trim the slim the smaller sized cans in the soft drink.
There's been a big emphasis on that over the past couple of years and we played our part in that.
It -- not only on the soft drink side but also even on the beer side.
When you think about some of the new products that have been coming out by brewers both large and small the standard 12-ounce container while still very important they're trying to add incremental growth kind of like what I said before about creating new products with different types of packaging different size of packaging and that's where the specialty growth has been coming from and we've been playing our part in it.
And our next question is a follow-up from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> A couple of questions.
One is as we think about the beverage can you've talked a lot about penetration.
But I think of any beverage that you pour into a glass from a tap like water what would basically be in a single or serve container.
And if you think about it in that context globally or even by region whatever -- how big actually is the beverage can and is that a fair way to look at the market? And I guess secondly are you finding that your -- I know another competitor had mentioned that some of their bigger customers in beer I think in particular but maybe other areas are trying to push you guys to negotiate can contracts at least in a globally coordinated fashion.
And is that a trend that is relatively new and something that you feel is going to change your approach to negotiations? With respect to the second question because I can't remember the first question.
We'd rather not comment on that.
I think the world is globalizing but that's all I'll say about that.
On the first question we think there's all kinds of beverages that should go into cans and you throw out water but I think water and sparkling -- what I'm drinking is sparkling water right out of a can.
So I think there's a lot of products that can go in cans.
And that's helping the growth in finding some of these new categories.
LLC</strong> But would you say like the can is less than 20% of all beverage containers when you throw in plastics and glass? Yes.
When you think about it that way yes.
I don't -- we don't -- we'd be guessing if you gave a specific number right now.
But yes it's because when you think about still and sparkling there's a whole plethora of packaged beverages out there.
And our next question is another follow-up from Al Kabili with Macquarie.
Scott just on the pension.
If you could help us clarify if you have any sizable benefit this year from the Highway Funding Bill in terms of pension funding? And if so how you expect your required U.S.
pension funding to ramp up as this benefit kind of abates? Well what I mentioned was in '14 we funded up a little over $140 million into the pension plans globally and in '15 we'll fund less than $30 million and our pensions are in pretty good shape from a funding standpoint.
So I don't think it's -- it moves around from year to year and frankly a lot of our funding is dependent upon timing and how strong our cash flow is so our cash flow's quite strong.
Last year we put a lot into the plan so.
We're just commenting on '15 what that looks like.
Okay.
And I don't know if you have it handy but what's the funded statuses at year end? We have a number of different plans but I think around 80% for the funded plans.
We have a large German unfunded kind of pay-as-you-go plan so I kind of look at just the funded plans.
The Americas and the U.K.
were roughly around 80%.
Our next question is from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> You talked about cost take out as being an offset of some of the headwinds.
Would you be able to frame that for us a little bit maybe perhaps talk about what that number was and what you accomplished in '14 and maybe talk about a range for cost take out for the company in '15? Well I mean in '14 you saw a lot of improvement year-over-year in terms of the European earnings so that's despite some metal headwinds that we faced even in '14 and '15 I think the cost take out will continue.
We still have metal headwind in the first part of the year first half of the year.
But they continue to do a good job of reducing costs and so what I commented was that on a constant-currency basis we expect that business the operating profit to be up despite the metal premium headwind.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it Scott.
And then I believe there's a can sheet facility in Fort one that was off-line here in the beginning part of the year or it may have started the end of last year.
Can you just talk about sort of supply of can sheet and how that's looking right now whether that may create some issues for the business in North America this year? Yes.
It's all back up and running.
The -- both that can sheet supplier and our whole supply chain including all of our sourcing folks did a really good job of managing through that so it wasn't impactful.
Research Division</strong> And then just last one so I think you said $7 million of higher pension expense.
So just for modeling perspective that would just be allocated across the segments.
Is that fair? That's -- yes generally.
I mean it's probably more North American-centric but that's -- you'd be okay...
And Rebecca we'll take 1 more question if there are any more.
Our final question is a follow-up from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> It relates to kind of business conditions and things within China.
Last quarter and maybe this is just my perception but it seems as though you sounded much more opportunistic with respect to deploying or potentially deploying more capital into China in particular.
The change in pricing that you talked about earlier in the call has that a maybe changed the appetite for doing so? I guess really what I'm trying to get at is you had some longer-term contracts in China and -- that were seemingly priced maybe a little above where the market was.
So as stuff now has -- the pricing has changed for you has your thinking changed with respect to what you would want to do or potentially allocate capital in China? Yes.
I think I mean given the challenging pricing environment we'll put capital to work where we're getting decent returns.
We've got some things to do in our own operations where we think we can improve our cost structure meaningfully.
And so we're focused on the things we can control because we can't control the pricing.
And so we're going to do things in our own operations to get incremental volume out of our existing operations and then we're going to be really prudent with additional capital in China.
So it probably is a little different tone than it was a quarter ago.
Okay thank you.
With that Rebecca I think we're finished.
And as you can tell we're quite excited about our prospects as we go forward.
We have some headwinds in 2015 but we think we have our handle on them but we also have a fair amount of tailwind.
And as we go into the second half of '15 we feel real good about the long-term prospects for our company.
So we appreciate your support and look forward to a solid 2015.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Welcome to the Ball Corporation First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
John Hayes CEO.
Please go right ahead sir.
Thank you Tommy and good morning everyone.
This is Ball Corporation's conference call regarding the company's first quarter 2015 results.
The information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Some factors that could cause the results or outcomes to differ are in the company's latest 10-K and in other company SEC filings as well as the company news releases.
If you do not already have our earnings release it's available on our website at Ball.com.
Information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
With regard to Ball's proposed offer for Rexam and consistent with the requirements of the UK Takeover Code we will limit our comments regarding the transaction to three areas.
Number one what has already been made public via the 2.7 release.
Number two where we're in the regulatory process.
And number three an update of ongoing economic hedging and debt activities related to the proposed transaction.
Also note that there may be certain limitations regarding the depth of our business commentary and certain other items we would normally discuss on a quarterly earnings conference call due to the nature of the proposed transaction and UK takeover rules.
Given the nature of our proposed offer today's issued press release webcast and conference call are advertisements and should not be considered a prospectus.
Investors should not make any investment decisions in relation to the new Ball shares issued in connection with the Rexam transaction except on the basis of information in the prospectus and the scheme documents which are proposed to be published in due course.
This presentation and transcription of comments are not for release in whole or in part in into or from any jurisdiction where to do so would constitute a violation of the relevant laws of such jurisdictions.
For more information on Ball's proposed acquisition of Rexam visit the quote offer for Rexam page on www.Ball.com.
Now joining me on the call today is Scott Morrison Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'll provide a brief overview of our company's performance Scott will discuss financial and global packaging metrics and I will then finish up with comments on our aerospace business and the outlook for 2015.
We've had a pretty challenging start to the year as the headwinds we acknowledged in early February around earnings translation aluminum premiums project startup costs and tough volume comps in North American food and Brazil all played out in our first quarter results.
While not unexpected they were a bit more pronounced given the first quarter is traditionally a seasonally slow quarter.
Scott will go into more detail in terms of quantifying what we believe are transitory costs and headwinds.
I will note however that our businesses are fundamentally sound with the majority of the headwinds coming from currency translation metal premia in Europe and startup costs from our various projects.
In total these headwinds represent $0.16 per share in the quarter.
Overriding these challenges are the investments we're making to operationally and strategically position Ball for future growth.
As everyone who follows us knows on February 19 we announced a proposed offer for Rexam PLC that has been unanimously recommended by its Board of Directors.
While we continue to make progress on the process around the proposed acquisition of Rexam -- I'll provide a brief update later -- we're very focused on maximizing the value of what we currently do and have quite a number of opportunities that are at various levels of investment whether it is the next-generation aluminum bottle shaping technology in North America for a customer under a long term contract which is coming online this quarter; the new Oss Netherlands specialty beverage can line that is just coming on stream and the recently announced addition of our and manufacturing capacity in our existing Lublin Poland facility.
The construction of the recently announced Monterrey Mexico two-line aluminum beverage can facility with the majority of its capacity secured under a long term customer contract which will start up in the first half of 2016; the construction of a new beverage can plant in Myanmar that is scheduled to begin in early 2016; a new U.S.
tinplate aerosol can manufacturing technology that will begin commercial production mid-year expanding our aluminum impact extruded container business in the UK and the construction of a new aluminum impact extruded aerosol facility in India both of which we expect to begin production later this year; or the chasing of several billion dollars of outstanding commercial and governmental opportunities in our aerospace business.
As we move through 2015 we remain focused on ramping up these capital projects and profitably growing our business.
We're investing in our future focused on continuous improvement growing our cash flow and adhering to our historical disciplined EVA-based capital allocation model at the same time making investments which are largely tied to long term customer commitments.
Regarding the Rexam transaction we're in the midst of the various regulatory reviews around the various jurisdictions and our conversations with the regulators are going as expected.
We have received an anticipated second request from the FTC in the U.S.
and discussions are ongoing with the European and Brazilian regulators.
We will keep you updated as and when there are material facts to discuss.
And with that I'll turn it over to Scott for a review of our first quarter numbers.
Scott? Thanks John.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share for the first quarter 2015 were $0.69 versus last year's $0.81.
As John alluded to three main factors contributed to lower results in the quarter.
$10 million after-tax or $0.07 of unfavorable currency effects largely due to a weaker euro.
An aluminum premium headwind of $0.06 and $0.03 of start-up costs associated with over $200 million of growth capital projects coming online in the first half of 2015.
In addition the previously disclosed loss of the major food can customer North America and anticipated lower year-over-year beverage can demand in Brazil following last year's World Cup were also factors.
To sum up what will likely be a question during Q&amp;A we continue to anticipate significant free cash flow generation in 2015 in the range of $600 million excluding cash costs associated with the Rexam transaction.
It is expected that our dividend will remain unchanged during the proposed acquisition process and we're not precluded from acquiring Ball stock during this process; however the allocation of capital towards share repurchases will be opportunity dependent.
For the full year 2015 here's an update on certain financial metrics.
CapEx should be in the range of $400 million as project dollars are spent on schedule.
Interest expense will be roughly $147 million excluding debt refinancing and other costs.
The effective tax rate now is expected to be just over 27% and corporate undistributed will increase closer to $90 million due to deferred comp costs related primarily to the retirement from long-standing Board members and the deferral of their stock which will hit in the second quarter and then corporate undistributed should decline to less than $20 million quarterly run rate thereafter.
In February the company entered into GBP3.3 billion sterling unsecured bridge loan agreement to provide financing necessary to pay the cash portion of the proposed offer for Rexam and we also entered into a new $3 billion revolving credit facility to replace the existing $1.1 billion bank credit facility we had redeem the 2020 and 2021 senior notes and provide ongoing liquidity for the company.
The redemption of the 6.75% and 5.75% bonds totaling $1 billion resulted in a pretax charge of $57.5 million in the first quarter.
Also in the first quarter we entered into economic hedges to reduce currency exchange rate exposure associated with the British pound denominated cash portion of the announced acquisition for Rexam.
And also entered into derivative financial instruments to mitigate exposure to interest-rate changes associated with anticipated debt issuances also in connection with the cash portion of this proposed transaction.
Details on these economic hedges are provided in note 2 of today's earnings release.
As a heads up and given the size of the proposed offer for Rexam these economic hedges can and likely will cause disruption to quarterly GAAP earnings and could accumulate to a sizable figure given currency rate volatility and the projected timeline associated with the proposed transaction.
We will continue to break out these items to provide as much transparency as possible.
As a result of all the debt-related activity in the quarter net balance sheet debt at the end of the first quarter was approximately $3.3 billion.
Credit quality and liquidity of the company remains quite strong with comparable EBITDA to interest coverage of 5.6 times and net debt to comparable EBITDA at 2.8 times.
The company has enough committed credit and available liquidity at quarter end to consummate the proposed Rexam transaction and to provide ongoing liquidity for the company.
For a complete summary of first quarter 2015 results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis and details regarding the first quarter please refer to the notes section of today's earnings release which includes the simplified table format summarizing business consolidation activities.
Now moving to operations.
Our metal beverage Americas and Asia segment comparable earnings for the first quarter of 2015 were flat year over year with excellent North American performance offsetting difficult comps in Brazil following last year's World Cup where our volume was down mid to high single digits in the quarter.
As we commented in the earnings release China volumes were up in the period while profitability was relatively flat year over year due to lower pricing in the region.
Within the segment we're orienting growth capital to serve the growing demand for specialty and beer packaging in northern Mexico.
The majority of the new Monterrey plant's capacity is under a long term contract and the plant will ramp up in the first half of 2016.
European beverage comparable earnings were down just over $26 million in the first quarter as unfavorable earnings translation accounted for roughly half of the decline.
$8 million of aluminum premium headwinds and $3 million of start-up costs associated with the Oss and Lublin capital projects outweighed relatively flat volumes in the quarter.
As I said in February on a constant currency basis we expect European beverage operating earnings to increase in 2015 as the aluminum premium headwinds and start-up costs ease second half of 2015.
Food and household comparable segment earnings were down in the quarter as segment volumes declined midteens following the well telegraphed customer shift in U.S.
food cans.
Excluding this customer shift our volumes were flat versus industry volumes down mid-single digits through February.
The segment was also impacted by a couple million dollars unfavorable earnings translation related to the European aluminum aerosol business.
Our global extruded aluminum product line continues to perform at a high level and global aerosol volumes have held up well year to date.
We continue to focus on improving manufacturing performance ramping up the next generation steel aerosol can manufacturing technology and further growing the extruded aluminum businesses in Europe and India.
There will continue to be difficult quarter-over-quarter comps in the food and household segment throughout 2015 related to the customer shift.
In summary our global packaging businesses are focused on executing on an extraordinary amount of capital and systems projects.
It's an exciting time and an amazing amount of effort is being put into improve an already exceptional set of assets.
Thank you to everyone at the plants and the folks that support them at the corporate level.
With that I'll turn it back to you John.
Great.
Thanks Scott.
Our aerospace business reported a solid quarter given the difficult comps they were up against.
Contracted backlog ended the quarter at $714 million and anticipated reduction year over year as we await word on program bids that are in process.
Our capabilities and products are well positioned as affordable solutions and there are a number of awards that we expect to take place throughout 2015.
The employee base at aerospace continues to perform exceptionally well on existing programs and just this month was awarded its third consecutive Boeing supplier award for high performance avionics as well as a silver Supplier Excellence award and a business management award from Raytheon for our work in the tactical products area.
Now looking out across our company today we have a lot of execution in front of us now and in the future to reap the rewards of the capital projects coming online in the second half of 2015 and early 2016 as well as reaching completion on the proposed offer for Rexam.
In the near-term our businesses are generating significant free cash flow.
From a comparable net earnings perspective versus 2014 the best we can do is offset everything other than the currency affects that are expected to continue through the rest of 2015.
While metal premiums and startup costs will persist as headwinds in the in the second quarter and currency translation will remain a headwind for the balance of the year our business remains solid.
Everyone at the company is working hard day and night and day in and day out improve Ball for the long term benefit of our fellow shareholders.
And with that Tommy we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
We will have our first question with George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Go ahead.
I'll ask two questions and turn it over.
John to the extent that you can comment on the Monterrey facility the startup seems to be quite quick relative to the announced date.
Now certainly you're not novices in building beverage can plants but can you comment as to what hurdles may exist at all in building the Monterrey facility? Why it seems to be coming out so quickly? Can you comment at all in terms of the length of contract with the majority customer there? And then I had one quick follow-on.
Thank you.
The reason why we're moving expeditiously on this is because the customer is in strong need of cans for their business.
We have been working with them for a while on this so this is nothing new.
I do think that the startup that we have all hands on deck with respect to it.
We're moving dirt we're starting to put in -- build the facility as we speak right now.
So while it may look like it's a quick start up we're pretty confident that will be able to achieve that.
With respect to the customer contract I'd rather not go into detail other than to say it is a long term contract for their beverage can needs.
And then related beverage packaging question.
Can you comment all in terms of the next technology in aluminum bottles a new shape and size initiative that you have.
Anything you could share here would be great and will turn it over.
Yes George whereas I mentioned I think in my comments and even on the February 5 call we expected it to be starting up late in the first quarter/early second quarter and that's exactly where we're.
It is new technology so it always has its ups and downs.
But as I said before we have all hands on deck getting product into the warehouses so that we can sell to the customer as we move forward.
We're excited about the technology as it is a version 2.0 relative to the Alumi-Tek bottle and I think from a capability point of view it's going to show the world that we're doing some pretty neat things in terms of aluminum bottle cans.
We will proceed to our next question it's from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Baird.
Go ahead.
Just in light of where the first quarter shook out can you just sort of give us an updated view on the 2015 volume outlook for your various end markets and geographies? Yes sure Ghansham let's start in North America -- let's start in the beverage can businesses.
In North America I don't think we see any appreciable changes.
What we're seeing is strong specialty growth and that's largely offsetting the standard 12-ounce container declines.
I think the market was off in the first quarter almost 1%.
We were off a touch more but nothing appreciably and it just had to do with timing of certain things.
The same trends that we've seen historically we continue to see here which is softer 12-ounce stronger specialty continued penetration in the beer category.
But the overall beverage category is to be relatively flat to down.
So the can is generally winning relative to other substrates.
I think in Europe the market was up a couple of percent.
We were roughly flat up very slightly.
But again it was first quarter.
Recall that 2015 doesn't have any special events related to World Cups or European championships and so we expect a couple of percent growth in the European market.
I will say that we're hand to mouth right now relative to cans as we enter into the summer.
So the capacity is quite tightened.
It's important that our folks are working well on getting the Oss capacity up on stream.
Down in Brazil we were impacted this first quarter largely by customer mix.
We service a customer that wasn't doing so well and another customer that we don't service was doing much better.
So we were down a little bit more to the market.
But we had anticipated the overall market to be to be relatively flat for 2015 and I think that's exactly what we see.
And so we think our volumes will normalize as we go through the balance of 2015.
And then in Asia as Scott had mentioned on the February 5 call we're seeing good volume growth but unfortunately the pricing environment is very challenging so it's really not contributing any more profits to where we're.
And we expect the volumes to continue probably not as much as in the first quarter.
We had a little bit later of a Chinese New Year and so I think that helped out.
We saw strong growth.
The industry was up about 17% and so we don't expect that but certainly double-digit growth as we go into 2015 we would continue to expect.
And then on the food and household product side you know on the aerosol side we're doing well both on the aluminum and the tinplate.
We were up kind of low- to mid-single digits in both of those categories.
Europe was a little bit slow only because we're so tight in capacity and that's why we're putting new capacity in UK.
And in the food can business we talked about the declines.
When you really strip out the customer that we lost we were flat year over year and actually up slightly in the first quarter while the overall market was down.
But again let's not forget that first quarter is a seasonally slow quarter.
So as we look out to the balance of the year nothing has changed appreciably relative to our volume expectations for the industry or our own business.
Okay.
And just one more if I could on the pending merger with Rexam and the timeline uncertainty associated with that.
Has that made any difference John as it relates to customer churn in any region geographically so far? Thanks so much.
No Ghansham no it has not.
Our contracts are usually multiyear by nature.
Most of them were concluded in the fall to early winter last year so it was prior to the Rexam announcements.
We see no changes.
We will proceed to our next question it's from the line of Chip Dillon Vertical Research Partners.
Go ahead.
When you look at the free cash flow guide of the year Scott you mentioned it would be excluding cash costs of hedges etc.
or involved in the acquisition of Rexam.
And I guess if we assume it doesn't close this year can you give us a range of what those cash costs could be? That's not related to the hedges.
What I meant were the transaction costs the cash transaction costs that we will have.
And this year is kind of hard to handicap but they could be upwards of $40 million this year.
And Chip those have to do with legal fees it has to do with commitment fees accounting financial advisor fees things like that.
The bulk of the fees get paid on the closing of the transaction so all of that kind of flushes through at once.
I see.
But that $40 million could occur before closing and this year if closing is next year.
That's correct.
Okay and then I might have missed this but could you give us a breakdown of the volumes in the Americas beverage segment in the first quarter by North America Latin America and Asia? Yes actually I think I just went through it but I'm happy to do it real quickly again.
In North America overall market was down about 1%.
We were down slightly more than that but it just had to do with geography and mix.
There's nothing appreciably different there.
In Brazil the overall market is down a couple of percent we were down a touch more than that mid- to upper-single digits.
It largely had to do with our customer mix.
We had a customer that wasn't performing as well relative to some others that we don't do business with.
And then in the Asia business it was up nicely double digits decently and the overall market was up 17%.
As I mentioned also unfortunately it didn't really contribute to much to the improved profitability because the pricing has been quite challenging there.
Got you.
And then just as a last one I know on the last call you mentioned expected tax rate around 26%.
Now it's a little over 27%.
Is that just related to currency and the impacts there or are there other factors going on? No it's more just kind of the mix of earnings where we're making the money.
We're making little bit more money in higher tax rate jurisdictions.
We will take our next question from the line of Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Go ahead.
Can you help frame the sensitivities in the metal premium to your EBIT and what is the lag I guess associated with the P&amp;L? I would imagine you have some hedges.
And at this point if it stays flat what is your expectation for aluminum premiums being a drag for 2015? Well it cost us $8 million in the first quarter.
There really isn't a -- there really aren't hedges for this -- this is really European premium and there's just starting to be a market to be able to hedge those premiums but historically there has not been.
So most of that -- it flows through and so it flows through timing wise more higher inventory will flow through.
So there is about a quarter lag probably to seeing lower prices from the decline in the premium.
So that's why we say in the first quarter we had a big it it will moderate in the second quarter and then we should be able to -- we should offset that kind of the drag that we've had in the first half of the year in the second half if the premiums continue on the trend they've been on.
And I understand Constellation is pushing can't aggressively for the Corona business.
How much of that new Monterrey capacity you bring on is actually coming back in the U.S.
rather than Mexico? And are you guys ultimately displacing glass or other beverage cans suppliers selling to other brewers? And how does that margin profile stack up relative to your other businesses? I would rather not specifically comment on the customer names and other things but we do expect a fair number of those cans given what our customers do will be an export from Mexico.
And they have been building a very large perhaps the largest brewery in the world and they've been doing quite well.
And so I think that should be helpful to us.
I'm not sure I understood your question about margins.
Were you talking about relative to glass and for that customer or--? No just relative to the rest of your portfolio on the bev can side because you don't have a footprint in Mexico at least based on my understanding.
No but we're going to be servicing a lot of the quality and customer service out of our existing North American business.
So just think about this as being a new plant and there's not tremendous amount of exist -- additional overhead built other than what would be at the plant level.
Got you.
But the margin profile then I guess would be comparable to what you're generating in North America? Is that good way to think about it? Yes said another way it generates the economics returns that we look for.
Okay.
And just one last one for me I guess for Scott.
You know you are off to a slower start to the year and part of that is FX and somewhat off issues.
What are some of the levers you guys are pulling to be able to hit that $600 million free cash flow number.
Thanks.
Yes the earnings are little bit softer but we said coming into this year it's really not that different from where we sat in February we did the call.
We expect working capital to be another source of cash flow this year and we continue to believe that.
So that's where it's coming from.
And let's not forget some of the earnings -- the earnings shortfall related to currency translation that is a noneconomic -- that is not necessarily cash that's just translation of earnings from in this case euros to dollars.
So that doesn't necessarily have an appreciable impact on cash flow.
Now we go to our next question from the line of Tyler Langton with JPMorgan.
Go ahead.
Just with Oss should the startup costs start to move a fair amount lower as we head through the year? Yes we expect that.
Oss is up and running producing cans now and you know there's a learning curve to that.
And then for Lublin we're putting in another end module there and hired the people for that.
And so that will move.
But as you get through this -- kind of into the second half of the year a lot of those costs should dissipate or should reduce.
And then just in terms of productivity obviously that was a big help for Europe in 2014.
Just looking for 2015 can you just share some thoughts on sort of productivity cost-out gains that you think you could get both in Europe and North America? On the Europe side they continue to make good progress on cost-out.
It's a little bit of a mixed bag right now because you are ramping up costs to deal with the new line and the new end module.
But if you take a step back from that they're still doing a good job of taking cost out.
And North America is always on that plan of always maximizing reducing costs.
The performance in North America has been very solid because of that.
And then just with Asia I think you said it was up double digits.
Is that a lot just from timing? And then can that rate -- what sort of rate are you looking for for the rest of the year? And then just given your capacity can you continue to grow with the market? You know we're going to get a point where we've been -- the first quarter was a lot stronger than we thought and we're not investing in China because we don't think it could be the pricing environment is such that we could make the returns that would we would require as part of that.
So I would expect the from an industry perspective we still see strong beverage can growth.
I think it will moderate a little bit.
As I said we were helped by the Chinese New Year the timing of Chinese New Year this year.
The overall beer market is relatively flat China.
But you are seeing very good can penetration growth rates and that's what's been driving it particularly on the high-end of the beer category in China.
But as I said also we're not going to be investing unless we can make economic returns.
So we're going to start to hit capacity utilization issues probably later on this year.
And I certainly hope although we have not seen it yet that the supply-demand situation will tighten up to a point where pricing gets more moderated.
And we will turn to our next question from the line of Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Go ahead.
Scott one more on the premiums.
At current prices you said you might get back in the second half what you expect to lose in the first half.
Would you expect a reasonable benefit in the first half of next year as well again at current prices? It's a lot of assumptions in that question.
So yes if prices stay lower it would be helpful in 2016.
By roughly the same amount that it would be a drag on the first half of this year roughly? Yes that's fair estimation.
Okay just a couple of others.
John and Scott you talked about the growth projects $200 million or so that you are spending on them.
Is there any way to give us a rough sense as to the eventual benefits that you expect from those projects once they are fully ramped up? Well you know they're all different.
But if you just say Ball is in EVA company and it expects to make at least 9% after-tax -- obviously at the weight average the tax rate but call it 15% pretax on $200 million of capital.
So that's what? $30 million of EBIT and that's probably a minimum benchmark that we would look towards.
And just one on the proposed transaction with Rexam.
Assuming it closes is with limited divestitures can you give us a rough sense as to what your currency exposures would be euro ruble etcetera as a total company? It would move this is a total company to probably 50% U.S.
dollar 50% rest of the world currencies with the rest of the world currencies a big chart -- the vast majority is euro.
Rubles and things like that are really small.
Right now for Rexam I think there about 5% of revenues so on a combined business it's 2% or 3%; sterling kind of the same thing 2% or 3%.
So the vast majority is euro and dollar.
And we will move to our next question from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
Go ahead.
Just a couple of questions for you first on some stuff on Monterrey and then the second on aluminum premium.
But with respect to Monterrey will both lines be on stream in 2016 or is that staggered one line 2016 one coming after? And are you shipping to that customer today from facilities in North America or is this all incremental volume to you? First both lines will not be coming up at the same time but they will be -- we're putting them in at the same time.
One will start up and then shortly thereafter probably a quarter maybe two quarters beyond that the second line will start up.
And then with your other question yes we currently are shipping certainly not near the level that we will be manufacturing.
But as they start to ramp up we're seeding volume for them.
And then with the aluminum premium question Scott can you maybe give us a sense of -- this it's kind of a follow-up to Adam's question.
But absent -- it sounds like this year is going to end up being somewhat neutral without the first half benefit in the second half.
Maybe if you think of it cumulative the last two three four years how much of a hit that you haven't recovered do you feel you've had to endure specifically to aluminum premium? Let's say even if we were recover what we gave up -- what we give up in the first half of the year in the second half of the year that premium is still at an elevated level what it was back in 2013.
Yes.
And so the premium appears to be heading back to kind of that 2013 level or below.
So I would say this more upside to that.
How much I'm not going to predict at this point.
No that's not what I'm trying to get at.
I guess what I'm trying to understand is if you -- how much of a hit did you have in 2014? How much was the hit in 2013 etcetera that you're still technically or not technically but cumulatively behind? It's still going to be north in 2014.
I think we've said it's going to be €15 million.
Right.
In 2013 it was €8 million and that was off of the 2012 number right? So I think there's more to go.
We will get to our next question from the line of Anthony Pettinari from Citibank.
Go ahead.
Just a follow-up on the last question.
With premium last year there was a lot of talk about the need to fix contracts in Europe past along the premium and now I guess those calls have died down.
Regardless of where the premium is week to week is it a long term priority to get contracts in Europe more in line with North America so that you can pass along premium or are you thinking that this as kind of a big issue that seems like it may be resolved or is not going to be a long term problem as you look out to the rest of the year in 2016 and 2017? I was going to say I think strategically we're not in the business to be taking risks that are not in our control.
And so this is something that for many many years the European premium really didn't move at all.
So it was never viewed as a risk.
I think starting in 2013 we started to identify it.
We have been trying to take the necessary actions to derisk our business but we work in a very competitive environment.
And so you can do certain things with certain customers if they agree to and if they have alternatives you're not able to do those types of things.
So it is our strategic intent to reduce the risk of things we can't control in our business.
That may be a bit cryptic but that's another way of saying we're trying to work with our customers on this.
I would say the one addition to that the difference now versus where we sat a year ago or two years ago is there is a developing market to be able to hedge that premium.
And so when you enter into contracts going forward while it is still a relatively new market it appears that you'll have an ability to hedge that premium.
So I would agree with all of John's comments.
The new fact is the ability to hedge it potentially which can also reduce that volatility.
And then just switching to Americas.
In North America on the specialties side you had a competitor that faced some margin compression in specialties last year.
As you look at your specialty business in the Americas understanding volumes appear to be fairly strong would you describe your margins in specialties as stable? Are they up or down? And then you talked about an acquisition of a small easy-open end business I think in Ohio.
I was wondering if you could just give a little bit of color on that.
First with respect to specialty margins we see no appreciable change to where our margins are.
I think what you're referring to is from a competitor.
That was on a specific size that while we participate in it isn't a huge part of our portfolio and I think it was isolated to a competitive situation on that size.
With respect to the acquisition of the Sunoco Phoenix EZO end facilities yes we're quite excited about that.
We didn't talk too much about it but it's a -- we brokered from EZO ends from the Sunoco Phoenix business for many many years and as the market continues to decide whether it's -- one year they're going strong in the EZO the next year it is out.
We thought it was a good value for us to get into that business.
At the end of the day the profitability of it isn't material to our Corporation and we didn't disclose it.
It's nice but it's not material.
So I don't think you'll see a huge change in that but it does provide a capability that we were lacking in terms of our customer needs.
And our next question is from the line of Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Go ahead.
On the Rexam call they mentioned that the German market seems to be picking up.
Are you guys seeing much evidence of that? Yes we're.
The overall German market in the first quarter was up I think around 15% or so largely driven by -- we've talked for years that the big breakthrough for Germany with likely be once the big discounters all the [indiscernible] start to list cans and it was in the first quarter that both entities started listing it.
So that's exciting.
I think as we look forward you should expect the German market to continue to grow.
How quickly and whether or not it gets back to that 6 billion to 7 billion units it once was it's premature to say that.
But the key to it was getting distribution of cans throughout Germany and now that's in place.
And so John right now just to size that market would be somewhere between 3.5 billion and 4 billion is that about right? I think it's less than that.
And again you have to parse out what is consumed in Germany versus what is exported from Germany.
And I think the consumed in Germany is much closer to about over between 1.5 billion and 2 billion units.
Probably closer to 2 billion units.
And then there's another billion or so if not a little bit more that are exported filled and exported from Germany.
What I was referring to really was the consumption in Germany.
Yes okay.
The other question I had is just going back to the third-quarter call.
It sounded like you thought you would be getting some news on aerospace contracts somewhere around year-end.
And it seems like out here at the end of April there's been some delay in some of those contracts being granted.
Can you just update us? Yes you know there is really no update.
We still have a tremendous amount of opportunities we're chasing.
The backlog did go down a little bit but nothing has changed in terms of the balance of 2015.
I've long since abdicated the ability to predict when the timing of some of these things will happen but I think the opportunities that longer term hasn't changed at all.
And we will get to our next question from the line of Al Kabili with Macquarie.
Go ahead.
Scott I was wondering if you could give us a little bit of color on the hedges related to the proposed Rexam acquisition.
Is there a specific sterling-U.S.
dollar rate that you locked in with the hedges for the cash portion or maybe some sensitivities around exchange rate fluctuations there? Thanks.
There will be some color on it in the Q but we really did most of this through various types of collar structures.
So there's a range of rates.
So there really isn't just one rate.
And it was really to ensure that the economics on pretty close to the day we agreed to the deal that that's the economics that we'll end up with when we close the deal.
So there really isn't just one rate that you can peg.
But it will give a range in the Q as to what that range might be.
Okay all right we'll look for that.
And then also just on the bridging the decline in the Europe beverage earnings EBIT.
Was there anything else besides the FX metal premiums and start-up costs that had weighed on first quarter results? Because by my math excluding the cost you laid out there was still may be of $5 million gap down year over year there.
A lot of it was timing is what I would say.
Recall that on the February 5 call and maybe even the call back in October we talked about pricing in Europe was a little bit more challenging than what we would've liked and so there was little bit of pricing not huge but a little bit.
So I wouldn't read too much into that.
As Scott had said in his prepared remarks we expect for the full-year 2015 on a constant currency basis that our profitability would be up in that segment.
Let me clarify on the math.
It was down $26 million $13 million of that was currency $8 million of that was metal premium and $3 million was startup cost.
So I get to $2 million.
So the $2 million that John is talking about and maybe a little absorption is the $2 million.
Yes.
And then related to that is just your share in Europe did you see any appreciable change there? I know you had kind of underperformed the market a little bit.
One of your peers outperformed significantly.
I know there is some geographic differences and customer differences there.
But how do you feel your share in Europe is tracking this year? I think we expect to the full-year -- you really can't take the first quarter and extrapolate out because it's the seasonally slowest quarter.
We lost a little bit of share in the first quarter but it really just had to do with exactly what you said.
It depends upon geography and where the weather is warm and where the weather is cold.
Our soft drink was a little bit stronger than we expected and our beer was little bit weaker than we expected and it had to do with the various geographies.
We were a little bit softer in the UK than the overall market but that just had to do with the customer mix we had there.
We were as we talked about strong in Germany.
In France it was a little bit weaker but that had to do was soft drinks.
So I wouldn't read too much into it.
And then final question I guess John to the degree you can in this type of forum comment but just in terms of the customer reaction to the proposed Rexam acquisition how you're feeling if there's been any surprises there.
Thanks.
Well you know we did talk about this.
On the February 19 call people had asked had we talked to customers at that time and the answer was no because we hadn't announced a transaction.
We've been very actively engaged with our customers not only as part of the regulatory approval process but it's an opportunity to really articulate what the benefits to the customer are to them in terms of broadening the geographic footprint leveraging the innovation ensuring the can is the most competitive from a cost point of view sustainability all those various things.
And so when you ask is if there's surprises relative to the customer discussions we've been having the short answer is no only because we had discussions with our customers about all those things in the past broadening the footprint sustainability making sure we're as cost competitive as possible and leveraging our innovation.
And we will turn to our question which is from the line of Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Go ahead.
I wanted to talk a little bit about specialty cans.
You mentioned this earlier.
I'm just wondering how far do you think this trend can go maybe by region.
I know Anthony asked about pricing but this investment in general kind of generate the same return for you as it did maybe 3 to 5 years ago? Well you know people always try and categorize it as 12-ounce -- in North America 12 ounce and specialty.
And specialty is 20 plus different sizes.
It's so we have to be careful when we describe it.
And there's also maturity curves on each and every one size as time goes on.
What we're trying to do and have been successful in doing so far is to continue to be out front relative to different can sizes whether it's heights whether it's diameters whether it's the amount of product that goes in the container.
So let's be careful when we talk about specialty.
But specialty continues to grow.
And just to get -- on the February 5 call we said in 2014 it's reached about 28% of our portfolio.
By my math in the first quarter it was 30% of our portfolio.
We saw good growth in North America.
We saw good growth in Europe.
We saw very good growth off a very low base in Asia.
We didn't have the growth in Brazil only because our volumes were down.
But what we've been seeing is here in North America for example we've been relatively flat over the last 18 if not a couple of years because the standard 12-ounce largely in the soft drink segment have been declining kind of mid-single digits and specialty has been growing double digits.
And you combine those two on a weighted average basis and you get relatively flat.
Answering your question about the returns of new investments relative to 3 to 5 years ago the biggest difference is that specialty is becoming of a size now that we're dedicating lines to specialty formats where in the past our investments were much smaller because it was converting 12-ounce lines to specialty containers.
And any time you have a conversion the returns are probably a little bit better there because you're not putting in bricks and mortar and other things like that.
But having said that the investments we're making and specialty in terms of new capacity in bricks and mortar we're still satisfied what the returns there.
And my final question just could you just comment on pricing in China whether you're going to be more or less optimistic about the strategy going forward? I'm not that optimistic in the near-term because I think there's still a lot of capacity.
So I think the pressure is going to continue to be on.
So we're doing everything in our power to take out costs and become more efficient to be able to perform.
We will turn to next question from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Go ahead.
Can you provide some color on the Mexico bev can market? What is the size of the market before you put in your capacity? What have the historical growth rates been? What's the mix between can and glass? Well why don't I take a first crack at that.
It's important to point out that -- someone asked this question earlier a fair amount the majority of the cans that we will be making in Mexico we expect to be exported to other markets outside of Mexico.
And so while your question is relevant it may be less relevant relative to this investment.
But the overall can market I forget off the top of my head the exact size of it.
I think it's about $11 billion or so.
It's been growing 3% to 5% and the can mix again beer versus soft drink we're seeing the same thing down in Mexico terms of beer that we've been seeing around the world where there's been a trend towards cans relative to glass.
I think it's around 30% or so right now and that's been up from 20% probably a few years ago.
On the soft drink side it's still largely a PET business although the can penetration is kind of probably in and around 10% which we see in many other parts of the world.
And then just on the aluminum premium a lot of people asked a number of questions around it but maybe to sum up what I heard -- you said it was about an €8 million headwind in 2013 about a €15 million headwind in 2014 and then this year if all goes to plan it's sort of a wash? So entering 2016 is it fair to say that sort of the unrecovered number in aluminum premium is about €23 million? Is that a reasonable way to think about it? I'm not going to predict what's going to happen in 2016 but I don't -- you know your math is correct.
It really has to do with at the end of the day what the metal premium level is.
And it spiked to a record high in the first quarter.
It's been coming down.
Where it settles and where as Scott said with the ability going forward to be able to hedge how we do that and how we neutralize it it's premature to speculate.
But as Scott said your math is correct.
Okay.
If I could just ask one more on working capital would you be able to tell us a range that you expect the working capital number to benefit cash flow in 2015? And then maybe thinking beyond this year what are the metrics on working capital that we as outsiders should be looking out to be able to say whether or not there is for the runway for working capital improvements beyond this year? Sure I think that getting to a number I think the working capital benefit this year will be a little greater than it was last year.
A lot of that has to do with improvements that we're making -- I am sorry it would be a little less than it was last year.
I apologize.
But a lot of the improvements that we're making have to do with systems that allow us to manage inventories better.
The businesses have done a fantastic job of reducing inventories.
There is also things that have gone on the receivable side and the payable side but a lot of it has to do with inventory and the investments we've been making.
And so how much more of that we can get I don't know.
Each year we seem to be able to come up with sources over the last number of years.
At some point you kind of have to hold serve and that won't continue.
But at least for '15 we see a good source from a working capital standpoint.
And we do have another question in queue it's a follow-up question from the line of George Staphos from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Go ahead.
Guys the question I had for you is in terms of all the activity that you have going on if you had to respond to a new customer request for facility not sure that you actually want to in 2015 in 2016 but do you have the resources that if you did have an award that you could actually start working on it with everything else that you have going on? I had a related question.
That's a fair question George because we do have a wide variety of different projects going on.
One of the benefits that we have right now though they are distributed.
We have a couple of things -- in Conroe Texas and in Mexico that the North American guys and girls are covering off.
In Europe we've got Oss and we've got Lublin.
In the food and household products side we have on the tinplate in Chestnut Hill; we've got a couple over in Europe with respect to the UK and India and then over in Asia we've got Myanmar.
So as you see the different management teams local management teams are not individually overloaded with any of that.
If we went forward and there were three new projects had good return projects in Asia it would be a stretch for us and I'm not sure -- we would have to prioritize that.
We don't see that right now though.
And so if that were to come we would just have to evaluate it relative to the resources we have but it's a fair question that we think about a lot.
Are we making sure it's distributed enough that we're not taxing our people too much? George if you have some leads for us though we're ready to pursue them.
I'll let you know.
We'll talk off-line about the royalty.
But all kidding aside the related follow-ons would be if you had a need hopefully there won't be -- but let's say there was a market dislocation a weak summer something of that ilk where you then needed to have another discrete cost-out program above and beyond your normal cost reduction program do you have again the resources to attack something like that if need be? Similar question I'm assuming that as you were planning all of these projects and other strategic initiatives you were doing it with an understanding of what your various contract renewals would need to be or look like.
Do you have any significant specifically in beverage cans but anywhere you'd like to talk be helpful contract renewals that we should be mindful 2016 and 2017? If you can update or remind us on that that would be great.
Thanks and good luck in the quarter.
George this is John I'll take the first question about if we had to go cost out.
We do this all the time.
One of the things we don't talk a lot about is over the last 18 15 months we've been moving towards a shared service model in terms of the back office efficiencies and we've had a little bit of upfront costs getting that up and running.
But we expect as we look out the next 24 36 months that we're going to see a tremendous amount of efficiencies.
Everything from how we pay payroll for example to how we administer our benefits how we invoice our customers.
There's a whole bunch of activities on a regional basis but even a global basis on standing various projects up and offices up.
And then the next step is being able to take those costs out of the local plants or the local regions where they're inefficient.
So I think there's a lot of opportunity and we're actually chomping at the bit to get after some of that.
So we're going to be accelerating.
That is what we do each and every day.
We're well incentivized to try and take out as much costs as quickly as possible relative to servicing our customers and so that's what we're going to be doing.
If you talk about footprint we have no plans on the table right now in terms of looking at our footprint because in most of the geographies if not all the geographies we operate we're very tight from a capacity point of view.
And so I would not anticipate we would do that.
The last question I think was about customers and renewals.
As I'm thinking and I look to Scott as well I can't think of anything that is abnormal that we have a significant amounts of business up for renewal.
North America just by definition the size of our contracts are large but there's nothing that stands out.
We've renewed customer contracts over the past couple of years.
They are typically always multiyear contracts.
In Europe we might have a little here and there but again it's much -- the size of those contracts are much more distributed and smaller.
And then in China we do have a contract that's up for renewal at the end of this year that's probably one of our largest if not our largest over there.
So we're very focused on that.
Those are the only things that come into my mind.
Thank you very much.
And Mr.
Hayes we have no further questions on the line.
I'll turn it back to you.
Okay great.
Thank you Tommy.
We appreciate everyone's support and we'll be in touch in the second quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you very much ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes the call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask you to disconnect your lines.
Have a good day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Ball Corporation Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we’ll conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday July 30 2015.
And with that I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
John Hayes CEO of Ball Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Keith and good morning everyone.
This is Ball Corporation’s conference call regarding the company’s second quarter 2015 results.
The information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Some factors that could cause the results or outcomes to differ are in the company’s latest 10-K and in other company SEC filings as well as the company news releases.
If you don’t already have our earnings release it’s available on our website at ball.com.
Information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
With regard to Ball’s proposed offer for Rexam and consistent with the requirements of the U.K.
Takeover Code we will limit our comments regarding the transaction to four areas.
Number one what has already been made public via the 2.7 release that was published in February; number two where we are in the regulatory process; number three the outcome of the Ball Special Shareholders Meeting; and number four an update of ongoing economic hedging and debt activities related to the proposed transaction.
Also note that there may be certain limitations regarding the depth of our business commentary and certain other items we would normally discuss on a quarterly earnings conference call due to the nature of the proposed transaction.
Given the nature of our proposed offer today's issued press release webcast and conference call are advertisements and should not be considered a prospectus.
Investors should not make any investment decisions in relation to the new Ball shares issued in connection with the Rexam transaction except on the basis of information in the prospectus and the scheme documents which are proposed to be published in due course.
This presentation and transcription of comments are not for release in whole or in part in into or from any jurisdiction where to do so would constitute a violation of the relevant laws of such jurisdiction.
For more information on Ball's proposed acquisition of Rexam visit the Offer for Rexam page on Ball.com.
Now joining me on the call today is Scott Morrison Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'll provide a brief overview of our Company's performance.
Scott will discuss financial and global packaging metrics and then I'll finish up with comments on our aerospace business and the outlook for the second half of 2015.
Second quarter results were in line with our expectations and the operations are fundamentally strong.
The headwinds we acknowledged in early February and late April around earnings translation aluminum premiums project start-up costs and tough volume comps in North American food and our Brazil beverage can operations continued and deferred compensation costs related to director retirements flowed through in the quarter.
Scott will go into more detail in terms of quantifying what we believe are transitory costs and headwinds.
In total these headwinds represented approximately $0.23 per diluted share in the quarter and $0.39 year to date.
As we said in April overriding these headwinds are the investments we are making to operationally and strategically position Ball for future growth.
As you know February 19 we announced a proposed offer for Rexam.
Earlier this week Ball shareholders voted overwhelmingly for the share issuance proposal and I'd like to thank all of our shareholders for their support of the Board's recommendation.
While we continue to make progress on the process around the proposed acquisition of Rexam including our ongoing work with the US FTC moving to Phase 2 with the European Commission and formally filing with the Brazilian regulatory authorities we remain focused day to day on the maximizing the value of what we currently do and generating strong free cash flow.
Growth capital projects that have become and/or will become operational that will largely benefit 2016 and beyond include the next-generation aluminum bottle shaping technology in North America which is in the midst of ramping up to commercial speeds although it has been a bit behind schedule due to the learning curve of this new technology.
The new Oss Netherlands specialty beverage can line and the addition of end manufacturing capacity in our existing Lublin Poland facility which both came online this quarter; the construction of our Monterrey Mexico two line aluminum beverage can facility which we still expect to become operational in early 2016; the construction of a new beverage can plant in Myanmar slated to open in early 2016; a new US tinplate aerosol can manufacturing technology which is in the process of starting up as we speak; the expansion of our aluminum impact extruded container business in Europe which we expect to be operational by early 2016; and the construction of a new aluminum impact extruded aluminum facility in India which is expected to come online by year-end 2015.
Moving into the back half of 2015 and excluding North American food we will cycle off difficult volume in aluminum premium comparisons and our near-term focus remains on executing on the capital projects implementing continued cost-out initiatives in China and Europe and finalizing and closing a variety of aerospace proposals that are in the pipeline.
I'm proud of the amazing work being done by all the people at Ball.
It truly is a team effort to manage through these multiple projects and the acquisition process at the same time.
And with that I will turn it over to Scott for a review of our second quarter numbers.
Thanks John.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share for second-quarter 2015 were $0.89 versus last year's $1.13.
As John alluded to four main factors contributed to lower results in the quarter: $0.12 of unfavorable currency effects largely due to a weaker euro $0.05 for deferred compensation costs associated with two long-standing Board members' retirements an aluminum premium headwind of $0.04 and $0.02 of start-up cost associated with capital projects coming online in the second half of 2015 and early 2016.
In addition metal food and Americas beverage volumes remain challenging in the second quarter due to the previously disclosed loss of a major food can customer in North America anticipated lower year-over-year beverage can demand in Brazil following last year's World Cup and continued weakness in US carbonated soft drink.
Much of the difficult comparisons for 2015 are behind us and free cash flow was still expected to be in the range of $600 million excluding cash costs associated with the Rexam transaction even after a $50 million increase in expected capital expenditures.
As we said in April our dividend will remain unchanged during the proposed acquisition process and we are not precluded from acquiring Ball stock.
However the allocation of capital towards share repurchases will be opportunity dependent.
For the full year 2015 here's an update on financial metrics.
CapEx will likely be in the range of $450 million up $50 million from our previous estimate given year-to-date project dollars spent.
Interest expense will be roughly $150 million excluding debt refinancing and other costs.
The effective tax rate is now expected to be closer to 28% due primarily to the geography of earnings.
And corporate undistributed will come in just below $90 million which includes roughly $10 million related to director deferred compensation costs recorded in the second quarter.
In June the Company issued $1 billion of 10-year senior notes at 5.25% which follows the March redemption of our 2020 and 2021 senior notes.
Our GAAP results in the second quarter were favorably influenced by the economic hedges we put in place to reduce currency exchange rate exposure associated with the British pound-denominated cash portion of the announced acquisition price for Rexam and to mitigate exposure to interest-rate changes associated with anticipated debt issuances also in connection with the cash portion of this proposed acquisition.
These economic hedges allow us to lock in the transaction's purchase price economics though they will likely continue to cause disruption to quarterly GAAP earnings and could accumulate to a sizable figure given currency rate volatility and the projected timeline associated with the proposed transaction.
We will continue to break out these items to provide as much transparency as possible.
Details on these economic hedges are provided in note 2 of today's earnings release and will be explained in more detail in our 10-Q.
Credit quality and liquidity of the company remains solid with comparable EBITDA interest coverage at 5.5 times and net debt to comparable EBITDA at 2.7 times.
The company has enough committed credit and available liquidity at quarter-end to consummate the proposed Rexam transaction and provide ongoing liquidity for the Company.
For a complete summary of second quarter 2015 results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis and details regarding the second quarter please refer to the notes section of today's earnings release which includes a simplified table format summarizing business consolidation activities.
Now moving to operations our metal beverage Americas and Asia segment comparable earnings for second-quarter 2015 were down $15 million year over year mainly due to production curtailment in Brazil due to lower volume versus year-over-year comparisons and unfavorable pricing in China.
In total segment volumes were down low single digits as North America carbonated soft drink demand continued to be soft.
Progress continues on capital projects to serve the increased demand for specialty containers and metal beer packaging in Northern Mexico as well as cost optimization initiatives in China and US beverage end manufacturing.
European beverage comparable earnings were down just over $14 million in the second quarter; however on a constant currency basis they were flat year over year.
Unfavorable earnings translation €6 million of aluminum premium headwinds and start-up costs outweighed low single-digit volume growth in the quarter.
As a result utilization rates are very high and out of pattern freight is occurring.
That will likely continue in the third quarter though aluminum premiums will ease as we move through the remainder of 2015 and help offset these costs.
As we said in the first quarter we still expect on a euro basis for our European beverage business to be up year over year.
Food and household comparable segment earnings were down in the quarter as segment volumes declined mid-teens following the customer shift in US food cans.
The segment was also impacted by a couple million dollars of unfavorable earnings translation related to the European portion of the extruded aluminum aerosol business.
We continue to ramp up the next-generation steel aerosol can manufacturing technology and further grow the extruded aluminum businesses in Europe India and the United States which will improve segment performance in 2016 and beyond.
In summary our global packaging businesses are extremely focused on strengthening their capital base improving processes and driving efficiencies.
Thank you again to everyone working together to make Ball's metal packaging businesses even better.
With that I will turn it back to you John.
Great thanks Scott.
Our aerospace business reported solid given the difficult comps they were up against.
Contracted backlog ended the quarter at $641 million and anticipated reduction year over year as we await word on the program bids that have been moving to the right a bit.
The employee base at aerospace continues to perform well on existing programs and has been rewarded with amazing images of Pluto and its mountainous surface courtesy of Ralph a Ball-built camera that traveled for a decade to reach its destination aboard the New Horizons mission.
Now turning to the balance of the year and echoing our first quarter comments we have a lot of execution in front of us now and in the near future to reap the rewards of the capital projects coming online in the second half of 20 15 and early 2016 as well as reaching completion on the proposed offer for Rexam.
As we have said previously we've been facing transitory costs some of which are beginning to abate whether it be aluminum premium or project start-up costs.
Our business remains fundamentally sound with some hard spots and some soft spots.
In our North American beverage can business we're excited about our new facility starting up in Mexico.
Our specialty volumes continue to grow and the announcement yesterday regarding our Bristol Tennessee end manufacturing facility positions us well from a cost point of view going forward.
In European beverage we're facing a very tight supply-demand situation but we expect tailwinds related to aluminum premium to occur and our cost-out work continues to make progress.
As Scott mentioned this gives us confidence to say the full-year will be better than 2014 on a constant currency basis.
In Brazil we're cycling off some very difficult comps and the economy remains weak with GDP expected to decline this year and inflation over 9% However as we look to 2016 we do have easier comparisons to look forward to and we have the Olympics in this region which should be a positive.
In Asia we've had very good cost management ongoing in a difficult pricing environment and we are fundamentally sold out.
However we have no expectations of investing in additional capacity unless we can generate appropriate returns.
Our food and household products business is truly a tale of two cities.
On the food side of the business the loss of a large customer and a very challenging pricing environment due to a new competitor is forcing us to batten down the hatches and it will be challenging for the foreseeable future.
However on the aerosol side both the tinplate and the aluminum businesses are growing nicely and our current investments in these businesses here position us for a solid future.
Lastly in our aerospace business we've had generally good execution and there are several sole-source programs that we had initially expected to hear about by now.
We do expect to get these late this year or perhaps early next year.
So in summary our outlook for the full year has not fundamentally changed since our last update in April.
And while currency translation start-up and preproduction costs will remain a headwind for the balance of the year our businesses remain solid and are on track to generate a significant amount of free cash flow.
Together we are working hard to improve Ball for 2016 and beyond.
And with that Keith we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning.
It's actually Mehul Dalia sitting in for Ghansham.
Can you give us an update on the impact of aluminum premiums in the back half and in 2016 at current rates in your estimation? Yes it kind of peaked in the first quarter.
It came down it was €6 million in the second quarter and then we expected it to be a tailwind in the back half of the year.
We won't quite offset the amount of cost increased cost that we had in the first in the second half.
But then we'll continue to see benefit as we move into the first half of 2016.
Great.
And next given that CapEx is going up $50 million and you are reiterating the $600 million of free cash flow can you tell us what's reconciling that difference on the other side? Sure.
Great working capital management both from an inventory standpoint as well as a payables standpoint.
So that's why we're ahead of schedule on those items which is offsetting the increased CapEx.
Okay.
And just one last one do you feel the $600 million of free cash flow you're going to generate this year is that a sustainable baseline going forward? Well it all depends on CapEx opportunities going forward.
We're investing quite a bit of money this year in projects that we're very excited about.
So it really depends on how the world goes forward and what kind of opportunities we can uncover.
But there shouldn't be -- we've gotten a lot of money out of working capital in the last few years.
I don't know how much more we can get out of working capital.
It will still be a source this year.
But each year I think that we get closer to the end of being able to generate those kind of benefits so we'll see.
Great.
Thanks.
Your next question is from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Good morning.
My question has to do first one is when you look at the capacity situation in Europe you mentioned how constrained it was.
Could you first tell us in general where you have to ship from and two to balance that market? And then secondly I know that Rexam has announced and had talked about a number of either projects that they actually are undertaking or had planned to at some of their analyst days in the last couple of years.
And do you think those projects will be enough to rebalance the market? I'll put it that way or do you think more capacity may be needed as you look out to 2017 and 2018? Chip from our perspective first remember that we had our Oss facility start up in the second quarter and it was kind of in the summer.
And so as we go into 2016 we think some of the additional capacity with that will help alleviate the situation.
But right now when you really think about where our growth has been Germany continues to be strong.
I think that's the biggest market.
And these as you know are very regional markets and historically we had had to ship out of Germany into other areas and so as that continues to grow we keep it in the local German market and that has just put pressure on other areas.
So I don't think there's one answer in terms of the out of pattern freight.
I think it comes from a number of things.
But certainly it has been costing us the money.
With respect to question about Rexam given where we are in the transaction and UK takeover code I probably shouldn't answer that.
Okay I understand that.
And then you mentioned the timing of the CapEx being causing the year guide to be up $50 million.
Do you see that coming out of next year? In other words do you think that next year's CapEx would be roughly $50 million lower or do you think there are other moving parts other opportunities you might be seeing then? Yes it's a little bit of both Chip.
I will start first and then turn it over to Scott.
But I do think we are spending more capital this year than we have perhaps ever if not a very long time.
And I do think there is a little bit of pull-forward in terms of what you're talking about.
But as you know we look at all projects on a bottoms-up basis and if there is good return generating projects we'll chase them.
There are a couple of things we're looking at right now but it's premature to comment on it.
But I think all things being equal unless we see these good projects you should expect CapEx to come down.
Okay.
And last quick one is you mentioned the segment volume as down low single digits I believe for the Americas beverage segment.
And you did mentioned the soft weaker soft drink volumes in North America.
Could you give us an idea of how you did if you can by specific region within the Americas? Yes I'd be happy to.
I think the overall market was down about 1%.
We were down a smidge more than that.
I think from a soft drink side we were kind of down and in line with the market.
We were down a touch more on the beer side relative to the market.
And I might point out that beer was up about 1% in the North American market.
We were off a little bit more just because a customer was taking more volume in house.
And so that had a little short-term dislocation but as you know we've been selling on the beer side selling cans to a customer for filling down in Mexico and export back into the United States.
We were off a little bit more just because a customer was taking more volume in house.
And so that had a little short-term dislocation but as you know we've been selling on the beer side selling cans to a customer for filling down in Mexico and export back into the United States.
So that's been helping us.
But I think overall soft drink was about down in line with the overall industry and we were off a touch more on beer just because of this mix issue I mentioned.
And Brazil and China? On Brazil we were -- the market was off almost 10% I think.
We were a bit better than that.
We were off just a smidge on that.
But there was some mix issues in there where from a mix perspective we our specialty volumes were down more than our standard volumes.
And then on the Asia side there is continued decent growth from an industry perspective but as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we were roughly flat just because we are sold out.
Great thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Tyler Langton with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Yes good morning thanks.
Just on metal food and household I guess could you give a little color in terms of the year-over-year decline in profits how much was volumes or price mix and start-up costs and how to think about those trends going forward? And if there's cost out there that could help as well? I mean just to give you a context I think the volume the loss of volume is the biggest part of it.
The pricing environment has been challenging.
Last year I think we made more in the second half than we made in the first half that I do not expect that to happen this year.
But I also see it as kind of a low point in that business.
And we continue to take cost out and aggressively pursue that.
And so kind of have a new base to start from as we go forward.
As John mentioned on the aerosol side that business continues to perform well.
Both on the tinplate and the aluminum side we're seeing growth and that's why we're investing in those growth areas in India U.S.
and in the Americas.
Yes just to provide a little bit more color around that on the food side of the business our volumes were off roughly 25%.
But actually when you exclude the loss of that big customer we were actually up slightly.
On the aerosol business around the world we were up about 3%.
And so what you see is excluding that customer it was a lot of volume as Scott mentioned excluding that customer I think on the aerosol side we're actually doing pretty good.
It's just this very challenging volume and pricing environment we're seeing on the food side.
Got it.
Okay and then just switching to Europe do you have a sense how much I guess either your volumes or how much the market was up in Germany and how much that growth is contributing to your overall growth? I think -- I don't have the exact numbers in front of me but I know Germany was up double-digit percent.
We were probably generally in line maybe a touch less than that only because of this type demand supply-demand situation I mentioned.
But the quote comeback of the can in Germany continues.
And then I mean is that the main I think you said your volumes were up low single digits in the quarter.
Is Germany the main driver or are you seeing growth in other markets as well? When you look at it from an industry perspective and where Ball is strong you know the overall market as you know we're strong in Germany we're strong in France we're strong in the Benelux region we're strong in the UK and in Eastern Europe particularly in Poland.
And you look at some of those regions and while I mentioned that Germany continues to go well I think France was relatively flat the UK was down 3% or 4%.
The Benelux region was down low single digits and Poland driven by a very soft beer was down as well.
So that's impacted us but I think we overall performed pretty well despite more or less on the beer side it being softer than it has been.
Got it.
Okay thanks so much.
Your next question from line of Philip Ng Jefferies &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
FX aside how much of the transitory costs you guys called out earlier do you expect to incur for the full year and will that essentially go away next year? The increase from the directors' retirement that was $10 million.
That was a one-time hit obviously we don't expect a hit like that again.
I would say metal premiums that's the other big one that was dragging on the first half of the year.
It will be a benefit into the second half and then a benefit into the first half of next year.
Then start-up costs a lot of these projects come on early 2016.
So we'll see start-up costs coming through the P&amp;L through the back half of this year and then it should dissipate as we get into 2016.
So those are the big ones.
Okay that's helpful.
I guess framing this longer term excluding Rexam closing do you expect your EPS growth to get back on track to your long-term 10% to 15% growth target in 2016 and possibly north of 2014 levels? To the issues that we can control I'd rather not talk about the 2015 but to the issues we can control we actually feel pretty constructive about all the investments we're making.
We knew that 2015 was going to be tough for all the reasons we've talked about that we do believe to be transitory.
So when you think about those headwinds in 2015 becoming tailwinds as Scott was just alluding to and then the operating performance of the capital deployed we ought to be getting back on track.
Okay that's helpful.
And in the announcement you guys had yesterday about shutting down a canning plant in North America how much cost-saving should we expect? We didn't quantify it.
It doesn't happen until the middle of 2016 so we have quite a bit of runway before we get to that.
So we'll update you as we get closer to that.
Okay.
But we would expect the type of return you normally would have for any projects you kind of talked about the costs that you're incurring for it? Yes it's a better way to rebalance our end making capacity in North America.
So we expect to get the same kind of returns.
Okay very helpful.
Your next question is from line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Just to follow up on Chip's question on Brazil is it possible to quantify the impact of the curtailments there either from a volume or an earnings perspective? And looking at the second half would you expect those curtailments to continue or maybe accelerate with the tough economic conditions there? Well again -- this is a seasonally slow time in the second quarter and then the weather starts to get better as you move to the back half of the year as their summer starts.
So I would expect it to improve in the back half of the year.
We also if you recall last year with the World Cup the first half of the year was very strong and then it really slowed down in the third quarter.
So our comps get better in the third quarter.
So I would expect that curtailment to reduce considerably as we move to the back half of the year.
What was the other part of your question quantifying it.
All I'll say is we were short -- the amount we were short and I discussed it in the relative impact Brazil was probably well more than half of the shortfall and China pricing was the other part of it.
Got it.
And then just for the second half for Brazil would you expect and apologies if I missed this but would you expect volumes in the second half to be flattish modestly up modestly down? We expect the volumes in the second half of the year relative to 2014 to be up.
It's a function of how much for two reasons.
Number one Scott mentioned how soft it was in the second half last year.
And then number two you know the can continues to do well in Brazil.
As I mentioned the overall economy is soft.
I know beer production is down I know soft drink production is down but the can continues to take share.
So how much of a year-over-year improvement I think it's too early to tell.
We're not expecting significant improvement but there should be improvement.
Okay that's helpful.
And then switching to food I think you referenced competitive headwinds that might continue in the foreseeable future.
At least one of your competitors has made efforts to lock up customers in longer-term contracts and they've indicated that the vast majority of their customers are covered under these contracts that maybe at least insulate them from pricing pressure in the next couple of years.
Is that a process that you've undertaken? Is there a way of understanding how you've engaged your customers to protect yourself from pricing pressure in North American food in the next couple of years? Yes I would say the vast majority of our contracts are under long-term agreements as we speak right now.
But let's not forget this is not a new phenomenon in terms of people knowing a new capacity was coming on stream over the last couple of years.
And so this pricing issue isn't just happened several months ago it's been going on for a while.
Okay.
That's helpful.
I'll turn it over.
Thank you.
Your next question from line of George Stephos with Bank of America.
Please proceeds.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for all the details.
I want to start off in Brazil.
John did I hear you say that specialty cans were down a bit more for you than your standard can? And if I heard you correctly then am I then to assume that's just a function of macro weakness and consumer maybe going down in price or what was it? I think it was -- well let's be clear on my comment.
My comment is directed to the second quarter which is the seasonally slowest.
I think it was just a mix issue relative to customers.
I don't think it was something bigger term because I know year to date the trends in specialty are in line it was just more of a second-quarter phenomenon.
Okay.
Now this question comes up fairly frequently right around earnings season.
Some of the other packaging substrates in the market in Brazil producers of those would suggest that in this kind of environment where economic weakness is pervading that you're going to see a shift back towards returnable packaging because of economics and that in fact you'll see one way slipping.
Recognizing that your customers tend to be much more one way and that's one of the reasons that you've been gaining share up until now are you seeing anything in the marketplace that would suggest that returnable are going to regain market share? And if you could qualify or comment on that that would be great.
You know George the short answer is no.
We often talk about can penetration as a share of the beverage market because that's the easiest thing to measure where it's still in the mid-40s in Brazil.
I do know in the second quarter it didn't improve but it didn't decline necessarily either.
And again I don't read too much into the second quarter in Brazil because it is seasonally slow.
But we haven't seen any reversal of those longer-term trends towards one-way packaging in the can in particular.
Okay thanks John.
Now in terms of the food business in North America can you comment as to where you stand with your efforts to either regain some of that lost volume and/or realign your production to deal with the new realities? And maybe the answer is we've completed and we are where we are with volume.
But can you comment as to either your ability to regain some new volume either in food or in other applications and again what you've been able to do to lower the cost structure given the new environment? Well yes.
First on the volume I'm not going to go into great detail but we don't expect any significant changes in our volume relative to overall industry volumes as we go forward.
We're very much more focused on the cost side of our business.
And the only thing I'd say is we have are and will continue to drive cost out of that business because we've got to be as low cost as possible in that business.
Are the plans in place and being implemented or is there more yet to come say later this year and into 2016 that has yet to be implemented and for that matter a gain garnered from? Well a little bit of both.
We've done a lot on the cost side but as I said when you lose that much volume it's always difficult to cover off all the costs at once.
So some of the things that we've already executed on aren't completed and we are always looking at new ways of trying to take cost out of our business because we've got to be competitive from a cost side long term full stop.
Okay last one and I will turn it over and recognizing it's going to be a little bit harder to project because you're relying on ultimately the government to turn on the funding.
But if you win your fair share of the projects that you believe you have a right to compete in would you see your backlog getting back to $1 billion say within the next 12 to 18 months? Thanks guys.
Yes you know there has been a slow leak in our backlog.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks we do know that there's a couple of things out there that we fully expect the government to fund and we fully expect to win.
So I don't want to declare that within 12 months that we will be at the $1 billion that you mentioned but it should be meaningfully higher over the next 6 to 12 months without question on that.
Can we get to the $1 billion? We could but I think it's too early to tell because that involves some competitive environments.
And if we win our fair share we should be able to but we've got to win our fair share.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning John; good morning Scott.
Scott I wonder if you could just help us as we look into 2016 sort of think about the impact from aluminum premiums if they just stay where they're at right now on your businesses around the world? If they stay where they're at we'll get a nice benefit in the first half of 2016 a bigger benefit than we're going to get in the second half of 2015.
And does that all show up in Europe or do you pick that up in Brazil as well? No it's mostly Europe.
Okay.
And is there any way to quantify or help us think about how big that number might be? Well I said -- I'll give you some direction.
In the first half cost us -- I said 8 in the first quarter.
It was actually a little bit lesson that and then it cost us another 6 million in the second quarter.
We won't quite get all that back in the back half of 2015.
And then we'll get more than that recovery in the back half of 2015 we'll get that in the first half of 2016.
So that kind of gives you the direction on the numbers.
And those were in euros.
Those are euros.
Yes okay.
But just given the extent of the drop in premiums right now why wouldn't it be even bigger? It looks like we're back we've given up maybe three years of premium increases? Yes but the increases came relatively steadily and then just really peaked in the first and second quarter of this year and then they quickly dropped back to that lower level.
So we're going to get everything that it has cost us but it's going to take the back half of this year and the first half of next year to get it all back.
Okay.
All right.
Just stepping over to food cans for a minute is there a point where the business shrinks enough that you've got just kind of a suboptimal footprint? Well I guess there's theoretically there always could be.
We're certainly not there now.
The loss of the customer did take it out and we've been rationalizing certain facilities.
And don't forget when the food and household products segment our tinplate business from a manufacturing perspective our facilities make both food cans as well as aerosol so there's a balancing act there that as food has contracted aerosol has been growing as well.
So you've got to keep both of those in mind relative to our plant footprints.
So you can use the plants in a couple of different manners than? Yes exactly.
We acquired -- when we had got into the tinplate aerosol business back in I guess it was 2006 that was one of the strategic rationales that we could combine and leverage the cost base of making effectively what are three-piece tinplate containers.
Okay.
And then John is there any way that you would have us think about the potential for what the beverage can might get back to in Germany? I think right now it's about 4 billion cans 3.5 billion 4 billion.
How do you think about that? Well I think about it since 2003 everyone has been articulating a point of view that if we could only get back to that 6 billion 7 billion 8 billion where it was.
I don't have the numbers the exact numbers of the top of my head right now but we're back we're making nice progress on it but we're probably half or less than half of where it originally was.
I do think it's quite positive that all the major discounters now are listing the beverage can in Germany.
But this is not an overnight flip of a switch and so I think there is we see sustainable growth in the German can market higher than other substrates because it had been off the shelf.
And whether it can get back as I said to that 7 billion within X period of time I just don't want to guesstimate on that because that's what it would be.
Okay.
And the last question I had was just to come back on that aerospace issue.
It seemed like in that third quarter of last year you were thinking you might hear on a number of these contracts by late last year or early this year.
What's been the issue with the delays? Is it just paralysis in Washington or what? Yes there's just a lot -- there's two things going on.
Number one we did lose one contract that we had hoped to win and we can't hide from that.
But then all the other ones we had some as I mentioned I remember last year that we had already won a number of commercial things but the issue is they need to get funded and they haven't been funded yet.
And that's taken longer than we expected.
And then some of the things in the government I don't know if you'd call it bureaucracy or sliding to the right but the procurement side of the government is undergoing change right now.
And I do think in some areas it's causing us some delays as I mentioned the things that we have a line of sight to we're not concerned about.
There's some things that we ought to win and it's just a function of when and that are expected to be funded and then there are some competitive things out there as well in addition to all the commercial things.
So I know it has been a little bit slower than even we would like but I think longer term we're not that concerned about it.
Okay.
Listen good luck in the second half of the year and into next year.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question is from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
Good morning gentlemen.
Two questions but two different areas.
So first area wanted to talk a little bit about some of the activity down in Mexico.
You have two lines going in Monterrey but it sounds like you're seeding some cans in today from North America.
Can you give us a sense as to of the two lines that you'll bring up A timing you said early next year both the lines coming pretty close together for timing? And then two what portion of what you're bringing on-stream will replace what you're seeding going in? Maybe a little color a little help there would be useful.
Well first in terms of the construction of our facility we expect the first line to be up in early 2016 then realistically kind of three four months behind would be the second line.
We are just starting to cede those things -- cede cans from some of our North American facilities into there.
We're eating a lot of freight as a result.
But that's why I think some of our CapEx we're really focused on getting that plant up and running as soon as possible because I think we get a lot of operating leverage not only for making cans locally and getting up the learning curve quickly but then also saving from the freight side of the business.
In terms of the exact amount year over year our customers have been growing very strongly.
So I think it's masked but it's certainly well less than half of what we expect to make in Mexico even on the first line when we get up and running.
Okay that's helpful.
And from an end perspective being you're growing in that area is there opportunity to redeploy some of the I think the equipment you put in at Bristol was relatively new as part of the end the rebalancing you did maybe five six seven years ago.
Is there opportunity to potentially redeploy some of that down that direction to balance supply that way? Actually let me correct a misunderstanding.
The equipment when correct a misunderstanding.
The equipment when we recapitalized our ends a number of years ago it wasn't in Bristol it was in Golden it was in Findlay Ohio and so the Bristol equipment is not state-of-the-art.
As a result of that it does not make sense to redeploy that capital and so what we're looking at using some of our existing facilities to fill that out.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
One last question actually is you mentioned you may be able to help us with some of the timing at some of the different elements of the process where you are with the Ball Rexam transaction.
What are the next milestones? So with respect to the process going under way in Europe with respect to here in North America and in Brazil as well when we begin to get a sense or when you might begin to get a sense as to potential divestitures to begin that sale process what are the next timing milestones that we would see? Unfortunately due to the takeover code the only thing I can do is refer you to the 2.7 documents that lay out a lot of the timing.
Okay thank you.
Your next question is a follow up from the line of George Stephos with Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Hi everyone.
Three quick questions.
One of your peer companies was out today and they said this in the past that they're seeing signs of maturity in the specialty market.
We think there are some customer-specific factors at work in relation to that comment but could you comment at all if you've seen any signs of maturation of specialty in North America either in terms of growth rate in demand and/or price compression? Second question I had I seem to remember back a year or so ago that was some commentary that maybe you might be looking at some investment in specialty cans in China or Asia but that would have to maybe it was just standard cans but that would have to be done in a way where pricing and return was satisfactory.
Since we haven't had any kind of announcement in that regard is that a function of the fact that you just have too many irons in the fire or that the pricing dynamic really hasn't changed much at all in China? And then the third kind of segueing on Chris's question so again project net was very helpful to you from an end module standpoint.
Are you going to have to add equipment here did you say to offset Bristol or are you able to get it out of existing productivity in your existing end modules? Thanks and good luck in the quarter.
Yes thanks that's a mouthful George.
Let me try and take it.
First you talked about specialty and the maturation of specialty.
Specialty is a very broad category.
And so when you get into it do we see a maturation of say 16 ounce? Yes we do see a maturation of 16 ounce although that's been growing nicely.
But our bottle cans continue to grow very very strongly and so when you look at the spectrum within specialty you're always in any industry in any new product you do have a maturation but as then what's about gen 2 gen 3 gen 4 around quote unquote specialty.
So I know that's a bit of a vague answer for you but that's what we see and so as a result we don't see the category slowing down.
Certain pockets within that category may slow down but others may accelerate.
Second with respect to your question about Asia specialty actually we've done a lot of work in terms of Asia specialty by converting some of our standard capability to have flex capability or swing capability.
Just to give you a highlight I'm actually pleased to report for the first time ever our specialty as a percent of total in Asia is above 10%.
Not three four five years ago we did nothing and it's grown double digits so far this year so I think we're in good shape on that.
And then lastly with respect to net your question is about project net recall that when we did project net that was five six seven years ago and the market has declined materially.
And so what we're going to endeavor is to sweat our assets and use as many as possible to replace the capacity that we'd be taking out.
Okay.
And just the question on China and Asia was really more around pricing.
I seem to remember that there might have been a project like a new plant or new lawn that you were considering potentially if returns on pricing had improved.
So I may be wrong but I don't remember a new project coming out so that suggests the pricing returns haven't really improved.
Could you confirm or correct on that? Thanks again.
Yes George you have a good memory.
Yes about a year ago or so and that may be nine months we were looking at a new facility and pricing has not improved to a point that we were satisfied with the returns so we had halted that project.
Thank you very much.
[Operator Instructions] It looks like we have no questions there.
Okay great.
Thank you Keith and we appreciate everyone's support and we look forward to engaging people as we move forward on our conference call at the end of October.
Thanks all.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and you can now disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Ball Corporation Third Quarter Earnings Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday October 29 2015.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to John Hayes Chairman President and CEO.
Please go ahead.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Great.
Thanks Lena and good morning everyone.
This is Ball Corporation's Conference Call regarding the company's third quarter 2015 results.
The information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Some factors that could cause the results or outcomes to differ are in the company's latest 10-K and in other company SEC filings as well as the company news releases.
If you don't already have our earnings release it's available on our website at ball.com.
Information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
Now with regard to Ball's proposed offer for Rexam and consistent with the requirements of the U.K.
Takeover Code we will limit our comments regarding the transactions to: number one what has already been made public via the 2.7 release; two where we are in the regulatory process; and three an update of ongoing economic hedging and debt activities related to the proposed transaction.
Also note that there may be certain limitations regarding the depth of our business commentary and certain other items we would normally discuss on a quarterly earnings conference call due to the nature of the proposed transaction.
Given the nature of our proposed offer today's issued press release webcast and conference call are advertisements and should not be considered a prospectus.
Investors should not make any investment decisions in relation to the new Ball shares issued in conjunction with the Rexam transaction except on the basis of information in the prospectus and the scheme documents which are proposed to be published in due course.
This presentation and transcription of comments are not for release in whole or in part in into or from any jurisdiction where to do so would constitute a violation of the relevant laws of such jurisdiction.
For more information on Ball's proposed acquisition of Rexam please visit the Offer for Rexam page on our website at Ball.com.
Now joining me on the call today is Scott Morrison Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'll provide a brief overview of our company's performance Scott will discuss financial and global packaging metrics and then I'll finish up with comments on our aerospace business and the outlook for the remainder of 2015.
Our third quarter volumes and results from operations were in line with our expectations and a lower effective tax rate aided the quarter.
The headwinds that we acknowledged throughout the year around earnings translation project startup costs and tough volume comps in North American food continued while others like aluminum premium headwinds and tough volume comps in Brazil started to become slight tailwinds in the quarter.
Scott will go into more detail in terms of quantifying these headwinds.
As we said in July overriding these headwinds are the investments we are making to operationally and strategically position Ball for future growth.
This week we announced that Ball's Brazilian joint venture partners are exchanging their remaining 39.9% interest in the joint venture for 6 million Ball shares.
This exchange will allow us to further streamline our business decision making in the region and across the broader Ball metal beverage business as well as enable us to better serve our customer base and ensure that the beverage can remains a cost competitive package.
While we are making progress on around the proposed acquisition of Rexam including ongoing work with the U.S.
FTC receiving the formal Statement of Objections from the European Commission and moving to the next stage with the Brazilian CADE authorities we continue to remain focused day-to-day on maximizing the value of what we currently do and generating strong free cash flow.
Growth capital projects that have become and or that we expect will become operational and we expect will largely benefit 2016 and beyond include the next generation aluminum bottle-shaping technology in North America which has made its way up the learning curve.
In fact we were just there yesterday with our board and I want to thank all of the hard work by the folks in Conroe and elsewhere to help make this a success.
In addition the new Oss Netherlands specialty beverage can line and the addition of end manufacturing capacity in our existing Lublin Poland facility which both help serve European market growth in the quarter; the construction of our Monterrey Mexico two-line aluminum beverage can facility which is on track and on budget and will become operational by early 2016; the construction of a new beverage can plant in Myanmar slated to open in early 2016 a new U.S.
tinplate aerosol can manufacturing technology that shipped its first commercial product earlier this month; the expansion of our aluminum impact extruded container business in the U.K.
is expected to come online during the fourth quarter.
And our new impact extruded aerosol facility in India celebrated its grand opening earlier this month.
We began to cycle off difficult volume comparisons in Brazil and the aluminum premium comparisons in Europe in the third quarter and our continued focus remains on executing on the capital projects implementing continued cost out initiatives in China and Europe and awaiting award of a variety of aerospace proposals that are in the pipeline.
I'm amazed by the amount of work being done by the Ball team.
Everyone is contributing day in and day out to our future success.
And with that I'll turn it over to Scott for a review of our third quarter numbers.
Scott? Thanks John.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share for the third quarter 2015 were $1.10 versus last year's $1.10.
As John alluded to the following factors contributed to results in the quarter: $0.07 of unfavorable currency translation largely due to a weaker euro; $0.04 of start-up costs associated with capital projects coming on line in late 2015 and early 2016; and aluminum premium tailwind of $0.03; and $0.05 benefit from a lower year-over-year effective tax rate due largely to the impact of our economic hedges put in place for the Rexam transaction; and on U.S.
dollar borrowings in Brazil and some one-time discrete items.
In addition as mentioned in prior quarters metal food volumes remain challenging in the third quarter due to the previously disclosed loss of a major food can customer in North America.
Much of the difficult comparisons for 2015 are behind us and free cash flow is now expected to be in the range of $550 million including approximately $500 million of CapEx and excluding cash costs associated with the Rexam transaction.
As we said earlier this year our dividend will remain unchanged during the proposed acquisition process.
However we did opportunistically repurchase 2 million shares in the quarter.
We will continue to view share repurchases as opportunity-dependent.
For the full year 2015 here's an update on various financial metrics.
CapEx will be in the range of $500 million a $50 million increase due to timing on a number of projects being executed as we approach year-end.
Interest expense will be roughly $150 million excluding debt refinancing and other costs.
The full year effective tax rate on comparable earnings is now expected to be closer to 24% following the third quarter impact that I talked about previously.
Corporate undistributed is estimated to come in just below $90 million.
Our GAAP results in the third quarter were unfavorably impacted by the economic hedges we put in place to reduce currency exchange rate exposure associated with the British pound-denominated cash portion of the announced acquisition price for Rexam and to mitigate exposure to interest rate changes associated with anticipated debt issuances also in connection with the cash portion of this proposed acquisition.
These economic hedges allow us to lock in the transaction's purchase price economics though they will likely continue to cause disruption to quarterly GAAP earnings and could accumulate to a sizable figure given currency rate volatility and the projected timeline associated with the proposed transaction.
We will continue to break out these items to provide as much transparency as possible.
Details on these economic hedges are provided in Note 2 of today's earnings release.
Credit quality and liquidity of the company remained solid with comparable EBIT to interest coverage of 5.6 times and net debt to comparable EBITDA at 2.7 times.
The company has enough committed credit and available liquidity at quarter-end to consummate the proposed transaction and provide ongoing liquidity for the company.
For a complete summary of third quarter 2015 results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis and details regarding the third quarter please refer to the Notes section of today's earnings release which includes a simplified table format summarizing business consolidation activities.
Now moving to operations our metal beverage Americas and Asia segment comparable operating earnings for the third quarter 2015 were down just slightly year-over-year mainly due to unfavorable pricing and slightly lower volumes in China and some project start-up costs in North America.
Brazil volumes bounced back in the third quarter up double digits versus an easy comp last year.
And North American volumes were off just a bit versus the industry being up roughly 1% in the quarter.
Progress continues on our Monterrey Mexico plant which will start up in early 2016.
It appears our cost optimization initiatives in China cannot keep up with the further price erosion in that region.
Much great work has been done by colleagues across the segment to support the cost out initiatives taken so far in China.
And we will continue to monitor closely the situation as well as the political situation in Brazil.
However to-date Brazilian can demand has remained strong.
And we're off to a good start to their seasonal summer.
European beverage comparable earnings were down around $3 million in the third quarter.
And on a constant currency basis they were up year-over-year.
Mid-single-digit volume growth and a slight benefit from aluminum premiums in the quarter were almost enough to offset the negative translation impact.
Food and household comparable segment earnings were down in the quarter as segment volumes declined mid-teens following the customer shift in U.S.
food cans.
Excluding the customer shift our food can volumes were up slightly with better pet food and salmon can volumes and upper Midwest vegetables faring well offset by Midwest tomato yields being lower as the pact came to an end.
This segment was also impacted by a couple million dollars of unfavorable earnings translation related to the European portion of the extruded aluminum aerosol business and a small amount of start-up costs relating to capital projects across the segment.
We continue to ramp up the next generation steel aerosol can manufacturing technology and further grow our global extruded aluminum businesses which will all contribute to improving segment performance in 2016 and beyond.
In summary our global packaging businesses are extremely focused on the things that they can control leveraging prior investments to serve the growing global demand for beverage cans and metal aerosol packaging as well as preparing for new capital projects to come in online in early 2016.
To employees listening in on today's call thank you for the energy drive and enthusiasm and working together during what's been a very busy summer.
With that I'll turn it back to you John.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Great.
Thanks Scott.
Our aerospace business reported a solid quarter given the difficult comps they were up against.
Contracted backlog held steady ending the quarter at $638 million.
The aerospace team continues to perform well on existing programs and is focused on reducing its cost structure as it anticipates projects being awarded in early 2013 (sic) [2016].
A side comment I might just mention that the recent budget agreements in Washington D.C.
actually help us and takes away some of the ambiguity that we were facing into.
Now turning to the balance of the year this message is consistent with prior quarters.
It's all about executing on capital projects generating cash flow focusing on costs and reaching completion on the proposed offer for Rexam.
Our outlook for the full year has not fundamentally changed since our last update.
And while currency translations start-up and pre-production costs will remain a headwind for the balance of the year our business remains solid and is on track to generate a significant amount of free cash flow.
Together we are working hard to improve Ball in 2016 and beyond.
Now finally I would like to acknowledge the contributions of and thank Mike Feldser and the excitement we have for Jim Peterson.
As you know earlier this quarter we announced that Mike would be retiring after leading our food and household product segment for 10 years.
His commitment and dedication to our company and to our people are above reproach and we will miss his drive.
However what we gain in Jim is a high energy leader who grew up in the commercial side of our business and we are very excited to build on many of the initiatives begun to make that segment world class.
We wish them both all the best on their new journeys.
And with that Lena we're ready for questions.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
Thanks for all the detail.
Actually congratulations both to Jim and Mike and Mike did a great job after he took over and the food performance is a lot better subsequent to that.
I would say my first question is around operations.
It sounds like China has maybe taken another step lower.
Perhaps it's a mischaracterization but can you comment in terms of what kind of trend you saw sequentially 3Q versus 2Q? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Maybe George I'll jump in and ask Scott to chime in.
I think the good news is the beverage can continues to grow and take share in China.
The bad news is the pricing has gotten worse.
We have not been putting any capital in China for several years.
We don't intend to because we don't believe with new capital you can make returns in it.
So we are weathering the storm.
We're battening down the hatches.
We're taking out as much cost as possible just to try and keep up with the price declines.
And it's challenging to do that as we sit here right now.
Yeah I would just echo those comments.
And that's why our volume was down just a couple of points George because we're not putting in additional capacity.
So it's a tough environment and it continues to be tough.
And I think the outlook is challenging.
Recognizing that this is always going to be the case in any quarter any year are you suggesting that there is maybe increased chance of capacity reduction? Because it sounds like you're having difficulty keeping up with the price compression through your own productivity.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well in terms of our own business we're currently not contemplating that now.
The real issue is there's too much over-capacity in the industry.
And our industry is not alone in that.
But the question is with outside of our walls will the market grow into the existing capacity? Will new capacity stop coming on stream? And could existing capacity be taken offline by other people? Those are the three things that we're paying close attention to.
So recognizing that you're sold out there aren't higher cost operations that in theory if you weren't running them wouldn't help the P&amp;L sufficiently? That's what I'm hearing.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Correct.
Okay.
A couple of quick ones and I'll turn it over and try to come back in queue.
You mentioned Monterrey being on track.
Can you just remind us? Do you have a contract in place for that facility? And I think you said first quarter but could you affirm when you expect to start producing commercially there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Operations guys are never the one to get nailed down on it.
We expect to be making cans starting up the line early in the first quarter and being producing commercial cans certainly by the end of the first quarter.
When I say commercial cans cans for sale.
It might be a little quicker than that but that's the plan we have currently on the table.
It is secured by a long term agreement.
Okay thanks for that.
And then you mentioned EBIT was up in Europe excluding foreign exchange.
So we appreciate that color but is there any way to put a finer point on how much Europe would have been up ex the foreign exchange? Thanks guys.
I'll turn it over.
Well think about the currency effect I mentioned was $0.07.
The vast majority of that's in the beverage business.
There is a little bit in the food and household business but the majority of that's in the beverage business.
Okay.
Thank you Scott.
Yeah.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks George.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> In food and household you referenced positive volume trends with pet food in the Midwest.
I'm just wondering ex the large customer loss last year are you seeing stability in the North American customer base? And in terms of your asset footprint in North America are you comfortable where you are from a food and household perspective? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Absent the loss of the customer we are seeing stability.
I think we talked last quarter on the conference call about the vast majority of our business tied up in their long-term agreement and the overall market is holding in there.
So again absent the loss of that customer yeah we see volumes.
In fact we were up just a little bit.
But don't go crazy with that.
I'm sorry your second question was? Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Just in terms of the footprint in North America are you comfortable where you are from a food side going into 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Well as you know in light of the loss of the customer we've actually made some footprint rationalizations relative to head count and other things like that.
And we're always looking at trying to optimize it.
It's a challenging environment out there.
And so while we have nothing currently on the docket in terms of any major restructurings we're looking at those types of things all the time.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just a couple of questions on Brazil first is there anything that motivated the timing of the acquisition of the remainder of the Latapack stake? And then when you look at Brazil into next year the country is in a deep recession.
Do you expect volumes next year to be positive in Brazil given can continues to gain share or what are your thoughts about can demand given current market conditions in Brazil? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well first with respect to your question about the timing of this I don't think there was anything specific.
Yes we are in the midst of a regulatory approval and I can't go into that.
But we've had a very good relationship with our partners for a very long time.
And as the world has changed and as Ball has changed and as they have changed it was just the right opportunity.
We're quite excited about what our partners – that they have a conviction in the future of Ball.
It does allow us to streamline some of the decision making.
And I think really said another way what they're not doing is our partners are not exiting Brazil.
They're not exiting Ball.
They're not exiting the beverage can.
Rather they're taking a broader perspective in the investment for the betterment of all.
And so I think that's good.
Getting to the volume side as we go into 2016 the first half of 2015 was quite soft.
And so I think the comps are relatively easy.
Scott had mentioned our third quarter volumes were strong.
The overall industry was up 11% and we were up a bit more than that.
As we start into the fourth quarter we see the similar trends continuing so that's all good news.
You're absolutely right that the Brazilian economy and the Brazilian political environment is a challenging one right now.
I do know that less beer and less soft drinks are being consumed.
But given that beer can growth continues I think that's a good example of this constant theme we've been talking about of cans taking share in the packaging mix.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay that's helpful.
And when you refer to political challenges in Brazil are you speaking specifically around taxes on beverage or maybe a more difficult tax environment for Ball or what are the risks from a political perspective in Brazil? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
I was just specifically talking about the potential impeachment of the President and what that means in terms of a change of a guard around the political side of that and ultimately what it means.
We have no point of view on it.
But anytime you have an unstable government it's usually not healthy.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it got it.
I'll turn it over.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tyler Langton with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Good morning.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Just following up on sort of the Latapack deal I guess recognizing that you've seen a lot of your earnings variability over the two years just given the effects of the World Cup I guess could you talk a little bit about – I mean I guess do you see this deal still hitting sort of the target level of returns that you look for that 9% threshold and any kind of thoughts on sort of like a run rate level of earnings if earnings can rebound from sort of the recent volatility? Just any details there? Yeah.
I would say on the earnings volatility it's been a pretty good consistent long-term increase in the earnings in that business.
The business has done real well.
It does get a little bumpier quarter-to-quarter and it is a more seasonal business.
But the overall long-term trajectory of that business has been very solid.
We don't see that necessarily changing.
I don't think we need much in the way of capital down there.
And in terms of returns this does meet our typical hurdles that we always look at in terms of we want to earn 9% after tax within three years and this will do that.
Got it.
Okay great.
And then just in Europe could you quantify Scott the impact of the metal premium this quarter and then sort of if premiums to stay where they are what that benefit could be in the fourth quarter and then looking out to 2016? Yeah.
It was a $0.03 positive impact in the third quarter.
It should be a little bit more than that in the fourth quarter.
And then we'll still get benefit in the first half of next year.
Got it.
And then just final question for North America bev can I think you mentioned your rates of growth were a little bit less than the industry.
Could you just talk about how you're growing in beer and CSD and is that the lower growth rate is that just sort of temporary customers sort of issues? Any detail there would be great.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
It is customer issues.
On the soft drink we were actually a little bit better than the market on the soft drink side.
We're a little bit worse than the market on the beer side.
And all of our differential relative to beer had to do with one of our customers taking more of the business in-house.
Fantastic.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
A quick question for Scott.
To achieve your $550 million free cash flow target at least based on our math it's going to take $200 million plus of working capital benefit.
So where are you finding some of those opportunities? And as a early read through for next year can you help us kind of frame what are some of the major levers for free cash flow in 2016? Well I'm just going to comment on 2015.
I'm not sure about your math because I have a working capital benefit this year a little bit less than last year's benefit.
We have a lot of charges coming through non-cash charges that maybe you're not accounting for correctly.
Maybe we can take it offline.
But...
Okay...
But we had a big pension benefit as well.
So I don't know if you're including that.
That's part of the cash flow.
In terms of looking at next year every year we're constantly looking at our working capital whether it's receivables inventory payables and figuring out what we can do better where we can be more efficient.
So it's too early to talk about next year.
But rest assured being an EVA company we're always focused on that.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I guess Europe you guys called out a hit from some out-of-pattern freight.
Do you expect that to dissipate in the coming quarters especially with Oss ramping up a little more fully? And then are you at a point where you need to add some capacity in Europe? And did you see some pricing? Just the market seems fairly tight at this point.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
It's – getting back we – remember it is more seasonal in Europe than – the second quarter and third quarter certainly than even some other parts of the world.
And we were just getting the Oss line up and running.
And so as a result of that right at the peak we didn't have full capacity.
So it did create out-of-pattern shipping.
I say that because as we go forward we expect that to become less as time goes on.
You are right the market is still tight.
It remains tight.
It's growing nicely.
And as a result we have to think of it longer term about if we need to add additional capacity into that.
No final decisions have been made but we're certainly thinking about that.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And just one last one for me; can you kind of help remind us what are some of the dates that we need to be mindful of in terms of the regulatory agencies as it relates to Rexam? And what are some of the – what's the process in some of the next steps you guys are taking going forward? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Maybe what I would ask is to take that offline and give our Head of Investor Relations Ann Scott a call because every jurisdiction is a bit different.
And I wouldn't want to confuse people by misstating something here.
Okay...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's all in the various documents that she can guide you to.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning John.
Good morning Scott.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Morning.
I wondered could you give us some sense of kind of what's been pushing up the CapEx number as we move through the year? I think it started the year it was about $400 million then we were $450 million and now $500 million.
Yeah.
Sure.
CapEx is always a little bit tricky to predict because you always have plans.
And the question is how fast are you actually paying for what you're putting in place? We've got some pretty big projects.
John ran through the laundry list of projects.
Monterrey is a big project.
The next-generation aluminum bottle is a big project.
The plant build in Myanmar the impact extruded in the UK the new India plant the tin plate aerosol in the U.S.
So we have an unusual amount of projects kind of a higher number of projects than we typically have.
And frankly the faster we can get these things up and running the better.
So I don't look at the CapEx spend as a bad thing.
I actually see it as a good thing.
And the projects are moving along pretty well.
And so we're actually able to keep pace or even a little bit better pace than where we thought we would be.
So that's why it's gone up.
It's the same projects; it's nothing new.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Exactly.
I think said another way it's some of the carryover that we thought would be going into 2016 will probably be spent in 2015 because as we said we're making good progress on many of these.
Yeah.
Okay.
So it's not like you've really had any big budget overruns on any of these projects contributing to that? No.
In fact all of them the businesses have done a very nice job of managing to budgets.
And we generally tend to be on budget and on time or even a little bit ahead of where we thought we would be.
Okay.
Second question.
John can you talk a little bit about the implications of ABI SAB and how that might affect you? Seems like particularly in Latin America they're going to have a lot of market share.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I need to be careful because they're in a regulatory mode as are we.
Sure.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> They currently have a big market share in South America.
So I just observed that.
I probably shouldn't go into it but a lot of the things I read in the public around the United States China even Europe I wouldn't disagree with anything that I've read so far.
Okay.
And then the last question I had is I just wondered coming back to the Ball-Latapack we can see what you paid for that 39.9%.
I wondered if you could help us at all though get a range on what EBITDA down there has been running.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
It's a bit difficult because we don't – it's buried within one of our segments.
I would point you to non-controlling interest on the P&amp;L line which is their proportionate share of net income that they have to give back.
Right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And I think there's some other things in the public disclosure that Ann could probably help you with.
Okay.
All right.
That sounds good.
Thanks very much.
Good luck in the fourth quarter.
Good luck next year.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
A couple questions around Mexico.
Are you starting both lines up at the same time? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
There will be about a three-month to five-month delay in the second line coming up relative to the first line.
Okay.
That was planned for.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Just to be clear that was planned.
It wasn't really a delay.
That's how we staged the ramp-up.
Got it.
Got it Scott.
Okay.
Then just the actual rate of capacity of each line and the expectation for how many cans you'll make this next year and in 2017.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well let me put it this way.
The Mexican can market is growing quite strongly.
And we're actually more excited as we sit here today about the opportunities ahead of us than we were when we initiated the project.
The facility's going to be a state-of-the-art facility that has capability of approaching a couple billion cans.
Thank you John for that.
And just last ones here on the Mexico side can you just say how much of the couple of billion is contracted versus open and how much is new can business versus a share shift from glass into cans? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we feel real good about where we are.
And as we said we make these investments tied to long-term agreements so I'll stand by those words.
There is a lot of growth.
The demographics in Mexico are good.
The consumption is good in Brazil and the package share shifts are good in Mexico – excuse me.
I mentioned Brazil.
I meant Mexico.
So you got three forces kind of as tailwinds for us there and the industry.
Okay.
Got it.
Got it.
Just two last ones for me so in North America and the U.S.
taking a step back just look at the CSD and beer trends over the last call it six months to nine months do you think there's been any change in trend? And then just quickly on the food can side in the U.S.
given that it's a smaller business any thoughts around potential exiting the food can to be a lot more focused on aerosol which is really where the growth fundamentally is? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
First I'll answer that question.
The answer is no.
Recall we've talked about this in the past that from a tin plate perspective our food and tinplate aerosol business are commingled from a manufacturing perspective.
Every one of our facilities where we make food we also make aerosol containers as well.
And so we've had some challenges in the food business.
No doubt about that.
But we actually think we are kind of cycling starting to see some positive headway in terms of the cost side of the business.
It's not going to rebound quickly.
We do continue to face challenges of overcapacity and that.
But I do think that when combined from a cost of goods sold perspective with our aerosol container business it makes sense.
Getting to your question about North American trends what we see over the last six months or nine months or so I don't think anything really appreciably.
I do think that you're continuing to see a very good strong growth in specialty.
I think you're seeing – actually the beer industry doing a little bit better particularly on the can side.
And I think can continues to take incremental share of the package mix there.
I do think CSD is while it's still declining it's not declining at the rates it once was so that's a positive.
So I think all of this paints a picture that it's a bit more constructive today than it was perhaps nine months ago.
But we're talking on the margin.
I think a lot of it has to do with the economy.
There's a lot of new housing builds.
There's a lot of construction workers going into convenience stores buying their energy drinks.
Oil the price of gasoline is cheaper which puts more disposable income in people's pockets.
Typically when we see situations like that we see a little bit more stability in our end markets.
Very helpful John.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
This is actually Matt Krueger sitting in for Ghansham.
How are you guys doing? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good.
How are you? Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good.
Good.
First can you guys talk about what effects the customer consolidation and anti-trust-driven asset ownership shifts have on your business and the industry as a whole? And then how is Ball positioned to deal with that dynamic moving forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I guess just a couple observations.
And again like I said earlier I'll be a bit more general than perhaps you'd like.
But consolidation in our markets generally isn't new.
Our customers have been consolidating.
Our suppliers have been consolidating.
Our competitors have been consolidating.
And we too have played a part in that consolidation.
I do think in today's world it's important to – where there's not as much growth around the world than there has been I think people are looking for efficiency savings and the ability to pass those on to the end-user at the end of the day.
And I think a lot of this consolidation is driven by that.
So outside of that this is a world that we've been living in for probably the past 20 years if not longer than that.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And then earlier you mentioned one of your North American beer customers taking capacity in-house.
Is this a dynamic that you guys expect could continue moving forward in the industry especially as consolidation accelerates? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think this is a unique situation.
But I do think that as maybe some third-party customers of that entity continue to be soft they try and incrementally fill that in.
So it's not a necessarily new phenomenon nor one that's surprising to us.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then one last question.
Can you guys provide any detail on intra-quarter trends by region? Anything that stood out.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Intra-quarter you mean...
Like full quarter trends year-over-year? Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes just kind of things developed throughout the quarter.
Did anything change meaningfully from the beginning to the end and kind of into October? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Oh I see what you're seeing.
Well we mentioned Brazil was – we've seen decent growth in Brazil when people were expecting it.
And sequentially quarter-over-quarter we saw through this year Brazil getting stronger and it continues to.
Again some of it's off of weak comps of last year.
Some of it's their entering the summer.
I think over in Europe I think as the year has gone on I think you've seen some strength.
I do think that we're entering into a seasonally slow fourth quarter.
And so it's always difficult to make predictions around that.
But I don't think in Europe or North America we've seen any appreciable deviations from any trends.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
That's it for me.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning.
The first one has to do with the composition or the changing composition of the standard beverage can in North America or beverage cans in general.
Could you talk a little bit about how much share you have seen the craft beer sector get at least versus glass and other substrates? Do you have any updated data on that? And where do your customers see that going? And then secondly within CSC is – are water becoming a meaningful proportion? And I sense that you're underrepresented there.
And are there moves to address that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Maybe I'll take a stab and Scott can chime in here.
First on the craft market we're very bullish and very excited about what's going on in the craft market.
I don't off the top of my head have all the exact data points that you're looking for.
But craft continues to be the fastest growing category of the beer in North America.
The can as a share of the package mix continues to increase.
It's in the mid-single – excuse me mid-teens.
And as we talked about in past that's up from virtually nothing a while back.
It is a more complicated business because the run sizes are a bit smaller than others.
But we've spent a lot of time effort and energy helping to support and helping to grow the craft market and we are committed to that.
I think it's a great longer term opportunity for us.
And we're going to continue to try to do the most we can because any time you have a category that's winning and you have a container that's underrepresented it provides opportunity.
So that's the way we look at that.
With respect to – I think you mentioned water.
And it's an excellent question.
We have as Ball been really focused on sparkling water in particular.
Water we are – the can is underrepresented.
On the still side of the market candidly it's quite challenging just because the price points of that water and PET it's – PET has become so thin it's almost like you're buying water out of a bag these days.
And it's difficult for the can compete into that.
And furthermore when the consumer thinks about the can they think about carbonation.
They don't necessarily think about still.
And so our focus has been on the sparkling water category and we've had some wins in that.
Okay.
Got you.
And then I think I noticed on the release today that there was a very large I think hedging loss.
And I think that was tied to financing for Rexam.
I didn't notice the UK pound moving that dramatically in the third quarter.
Could you just talk a little bit about what gave rise to that? Yeah.
It's mostly currency and some interest.
We're hedging about £2.3 billion of the purchase price that we have to pay in sterling.
So you don't need big changes in rates to have a meaningful impact on the GAAP earnings.
So it's really the hedges we put in place right after the transaction and the movement of the currency over – in the first quarter – or second quarter we had a big gain if you recall and then in the third quarter had a big loss.
So that was the volatility I was talking about in terms of impacting our GAAP earnings.
Gotcha.
And last question.
You've been good to give us the details of the several projects or the numerous projects you all have going on around the world in the legacy Ball.
Assuming things go as planned with the closing of Rexam would we expect to see a material slowdown with the expansion I guess in terms of thinking of the legacy Ball business? Or would we see that continue? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think the best way to think about it is bandwidth.
And as we've moved to close with Rexam we want to make sure that it's a seamless and flawless day one and day 100 for our customers.
And we're going to be really focusing on the execution and delivering on the commitments we set out for ourselves our investors our customers et cetera.
To the extent that there are capital investments that are good growth opportunities that meet our return objectives we'll certainly consider that because remember this acquisition is as much about trying to create an environment where we help the can be as sustainable as possible and leveraging the footprint of the combined entities so that we can service our customers even better.
So if there's opportunities that fit within that window we'd certainly look at them.
But I do think if you said you have to prioritize our prioritization is going to be on the execution of flawless day one flawless day 100 and flawless day 1 000.
I see.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we have a follow-up question coming from the line of George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi everyone.
Couple questions on the new projects.
If you can comment at all in terms of the next-gen aluminum bottle what's unique to it? When do you think we'd start seeing it to a larger degree in the market? And then similarly on the new tinplate aerosol technology if you're at a position right now to comment at all in terms of what's new what it does for the customer what it does for you in terms of process supply chain et cetera.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Well both of these are new technologies.
They both have significant lightweight opportunities relative to the current out there.
And even on the aluminum it's – we would have the ability to shape it.
And so where we are right now is both of those are coming out of a startup curve.
But there is a whole supply chain filling that needs to occur.
I think as time goes on and we're sitting here at the end of October I think over the – in the fourth quarter you'll start to see more and more of each of these.
And then I really think as you go into 2016 is really where you'll start to see the difference.
And John if I could and I appreciate the details that you already relayed.
On aerosol what end markets would we possibly see this in? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well it's an aerosol container.
Right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Tinplate aerosol container.
So think that.
And we've been able to lightweight it while maintaining the rigidity characteristics for allowing it to hold high pressure.
So you're saying we'd see it pretty much in everything from WD-40 to spray paints to starches to bug spray.
So it's basically the whole waterfront.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah it has that capability.
I'd rather at this time not get into the specific customer-by-customer.
But you're thinking about it correctly.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
In terms of the Aerospace backlog it's been holding steady.
Obviously developments in Washington have been out of your control.
Is your sense that where there has been an opportunity to gauge your progress that you are at least maintaining market share on awards that have been made? And if you could give a little bit more color on the recent agreement why that helps you out in Aerospace? You mentioned that takes away some uncertainties.
If you can give a little bit more color in terms of how that uncertainty was impeding your progress there or at least your customers' willingness to commit.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think most Americans don't realize that if we had not gotten a budget deal that the sequestering would have gotten worse not better and it would've reduced defense budgets not maintained or even increased them slightly.
And that's what this proposed new budget deal is is a slight increase into that.
We haven't had a budget for I don't know how many years.
And so we've been working under continuing resolutions for so long which is kind of just status quo.
This allows our government officials to mix and match a little bit more.
And as I said on prior calls we have more proposals in with our customers than I've ever seen at Ball Aerospace.
And if we didn't have a budget deal that would've put some of those at risk.
And so that's why we feel pretty good about where we are.
These as you know George because this business is – it's a portfolio of you either win or you either lose.
And so on a probability basis we have to factor in these things.
And so we look at it from a portfolio perspective.
We have candidly not one one or two things this year that we are hoping to but not expecting to necessarily.
But as we get more of these individual discrete programs awarded I think the portfolio broadens out and we fully expect to win our fair share of that portfolio.
Okay.
I'll circle back maybe a little bit later on on end markets here as well.
But last question and I'll turn it over.
Start-up costs Metal Food did you call that out? I know you mentioned it in the press release.
But if you mentioned the dollar amount I missed it.
More of the start-up costs were on the beverage side but there was $1 million or $2 million of start-up on the food side as well.
Okay.
Thanks Scott.
Thank you.
And we have a follow-up question coming from the line of Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Just a couple of follow-ups and both related to questions George just had there.
One in the release you mentioned the stabilization in backlogs in Aerospace.
John can you give us a little more color on why you're confident that that's taking place? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well it's stabilized because we had some big programs remember in 2014 that had rolled off and we completed.
And that started a kind of a decline.
I do think it's kind of leveled off and it's kind of at a steady state.
And as I said we have so many different programs that we're bidding on right now I just don't want to – it's difficult to be tied down to the exact timing of not only when you're awarded them but then when you sign the contract.
But we expect the next call it three months to six months to be a very busy time around the bids and proposals we have outstanding with our Aerospace business.
Yeah.
Did you say that you'd either won a couple recently or that you hadn't won a couple recently? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
We had not won a couple recently.
Yeah.
Okay.
And then the other question I had is just when you think about sort of all these projects across Ball is there any way to size sort of what the headwind from start-up costs is across all those businesses in 2015 and 2016? I think we've been calling it out each quarter in 2015.
So start-up in the quarter was $0.04 and for the year it's about $0.09.
Okay.
For 2015.
Yeah.
And would you want to make any stab at what that might look like next year Scott? Yeah it should come down.
I mean I think there'll be a little bit of ramp up in the first quarter as Mexico comes online and Myanmar comes online.
We're bearing some of those costs today.
So you're hiring people and training them at other plants.
But as we move through next year those costs should come down.
Okay.
That's good.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And we have a question from the line of Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
I have just actually one question.
Most of mine have been asked already.
As you're now eight months or so into the process of bringing together Ball and Rexam you've I think previously said that and even in your release cited first half 2016 as approximate time still for closing so two questions related.
One perhaps now that you're this far down the path do you have a better sense of when closing could be? Could it be more first quarter second quarter or potentially slip to later in the year? And then second piece of the question is you'd established a cap I believe of I think it was $1.58 billion at the time.
As you now are pretty far down the path again with agencies and folks in three different continents do you have a sense as to perhaps would you be higher or lower or how that might be progressing as well? And any thoughts with respect to timing of potential divestitures if there are any? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I appreciate all those questions and I'd love to answer them.
But quite honestly and given UK takeover code it's premature to update any of our guidance.
And at the time that we think it makes sense to do so we will do so.
I know that's not the answer you want to hear but that's the truth.
No problem.
I understand.
The last question I had for Scott was and I know you've been asked this a couple of different ways.
A lot of the projects that you've undertaken and you moved CapEx up a number of times I think as someone else had noted.
These sound like they're move ups as opposed to new projects being brought on stream.
So as we kind of think about 2016 would it be unreasonable to assume that you don't have a big slew of new product announcements or new – I'm sorry new capacity announcements that you've had this year that CapEx shouldn't be appreciably lower? Well first I would say that the changes to the CapEx we increased it by $50 million in the last quarter and $50 million in this quarter.
It has more to do with the timing of the spend than the totality of the spend.
The totality is not any different.
There's more pull forward from 2016 into 2015 because these projects are moving along at a pretty good clip.
And so when you have the number of projects that we have and the size of the projects we have you're always hoping they will go well.
And frankly they've gone pretty well.
So the spend we're getting the opportunity to get these things up and running a little bit quicker.
Those are the projects we have on the table right now.
We haven't announced anything different or beyond that in 2016.
So it's premature to comment on 2016.
But we're spending a heck of a lot of capital this year.
I would expect that to come down somewhat next year.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Last question coming back to aluminum premium and I think you did detail what it was for the quarter and the plusses and minuses for the year.
But could you just remind us cumulatively the last few years what's your behind? And any change to the thought process that – I mean you haven't changed the number of your contracts yet I don't believe.
Help us triangulate around or make our guesses as to what the benefit might be in 2016.
Well in 2014 it cost us about €13 million.
In 2015 we've kind of detailed out each quarter.
For the year it's a negative $0.06.
For the quarter it was a positive $0.03.
I said in the fourth quarter it'll be a little bit more positive than that and then we'll have more benefit in the first half of next year.
Do you remember what it was in 2013 by chance as well? I think you were still behind coming out of 2012 and into 2013 if memory serves.
€8 million to €9 million.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Okay.
Thank you gentlemen.
Good luck.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we do have a follow-up question coming from the line of George Staphos of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi everyone.
One quick one on Aerospace; to the extent that you can and recognizing perhaps you can't just because of the confidentiality on some of these arrangements your backlog and some of the projects you hope to win maybe saying it differently.
Which areas of specialty or value add will we see the show up in relative to what Ball does well? I didn't phrase that well but you know what I mean.
So is it more DoD? Is it more vision systems? Is it more deep space explorations? Or any way to categorize where you're seeing more of the interest in what you do in Aerospace? Thanks guys.
And good luck on the quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah George.
It's an excellent question and in some ways it's across the board.
I mean when you think about our Aerospace business we have a services business which is really a – sometimes the backlog – there really isn't that much of a backlog because it's an IDIQ type of arrangement.
But that business has been growing.
And the backlog visibility in that is kind of a close to a 12-month cycle than a three-year or four-year cycle.
On the NASA NASA's been declining as an industry.
The U.S.
government hasn't been funding it to a level.
We see some longer term opportunity.
But that's probably not a lot in terms of what we see in the near term.
Really the near term gets around the DoD and whether it's in our Satellite business or in what we call our Tactical Services business which has everything from the cameras to antenna work.
And we see big builds on the horizon for some of those types of things and that's where the opportunities are coming from.
Thank you John.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
And at this time there are no further questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Okay Lena.
Well thank you very much.
We appreciate your help.
And thanks for the support of everyone.
We look forward to speaking with you as time goes on.
And a good finish to 2015.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Ball Corporation Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday January 28 2016.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Hayes CEO.
Please go ahead sir.
Great.
Thank you Tia and good morning everyone.
This is Ball Corporation's conference call regarding the Company's fourth quarter full year 2015 results.
The information provided during this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those that may be expressed or implied.
Some factors that could cause results or outcomes to differ are in the Company's latest 10-K and in other company SEC filings as well as Company news releases.
Now if you do not already have our earnings release it is available on our website at ball.com.
Information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures may also be found on our website.
With regard to Ball's proposed offer for Rexam and consistent with the requirements of the U.K.
Takeover Code we will limit our comments regarding the transaction to number one what has already been made public via the 2.7 release.
Number two where we are in the regulatory process.
Number three an update on ongoing economic hedging and debt activities related to the proposed transaction.
Also note that there may be limitations regarding the depth of our business commentary as well as our future outlook and certain other items we would normally discuss on an earnings conference call due to the nature of the proposed transaction and restrictions under the U.K.
Takeover Code.
Given the nature of our proposed offer today's issued press release webcast and conference call are advertisements and should not be considered a prospectus.
Investors should not make any investment decision in relation to the new Ball shares issued in connection with the Rexam transaction except on the basis of information in the prospectus and the scheme documents which are proposed to be published in due course.
This presentation and transcription of comments are not for release in whole or in part in into or from any jurisdiction where to do so would constitute a violation of the relevant laws of such jurisdiction.
For more information on Ball's proposed acquisition of Rexam please visit the Offer for Rexam page on ball.com.
Now joining me on the call today is Scott Morrison Senior Vice President and our Chief Financial Officer.
I will provide a brief overview of our Company's performance Scott will discuss financial and global packaging metrics and then I will finish up with comments on our aerospace business and the outlook for 2016.
Our fourth quarter volumes free cash flow and results from operations were in line with our expectations.
The headwinds we acknowledged throughout 2015 and around earnings translation project startup costs and tough volume comps in our North American food continued while others like aluminum premium became a tailwind and a lower effective tax rate aided the quarter.
Overall however we are pleased with the performance of our businesses and Scott will go into more detail on the quarter and full year in just a moment.
Since we spoke last October we have made notable progress to strategically and operationally position Ball for the future including successfully beginning the production of beverage can ends in our existing Lublin Poland facility which is also slated for additional end modules in 2016.
The successful startup of our Monterrey Mexico beverage can and end facility which is serving multiple foreign brewers importing their product into the U.S.
The successful startup of a new aluminum impact extruded line in Devizes U.K.
as well as our recently announced aluminum impact extruded aerosol expansion in Velim Czech Republic which is expected to come online in early 2017.
The successful startup of our new aluminum impact extruded aerosol facility in India various investments to further the growth of our specialty can and new product portfolio including our new contour bottle line in Conroe Texas and our new tin plate aerosol technology in Chestnut Hill Tennessee and the continued construction of our new beverage can plant in Myanmar now slated to open in April 2016.
We also completed the acquisition of the remaining interest in our Brazilian joint venture and received conditional regulatory approvals for our proposed offer for Rexam from the European Commission and Brazilian CADE.
Discussions are ongoing with the FTC.
We have weathered a very busy 2015 in terms of managing the headwinds investing in our future and making progress with our Rexam acquisition.
Everyone at our Company has been extremely busy and I want to thank everyone at Ball who has persevered and risen to the challenge.
Thanks.
With that I will turn it over to Scott for a review of our fourth quarter numbers.
Thanks John.
Ball's comparable diluted earnings per share for fourth quarter 2015 were $0.80 versus last year's $0.84.
For the full year 2015 comparable diluted earnings per share were $3.48 versus $3.88 in 2014.
Fourth quarter and full year comparable diluted earnings per share were unfavorably impacted by a net $0.04 and $0.49 respectively related to foreign currency effects startup costs and other one-time items.
As John alluded to the following factors contributed to results in the fourth quarter $0.06 of unfavorable currency translation effects largely due to a weaker euro $0.02 of startup costs associated with capital projects and an aluminum premium tailwind of $0.04.
[ph] free cash flow came in at $558 million after $528 million of CapEx and excluding roughly $80 million of cash costs associated with the Rexam transaction.
Our GAAP results for the fourth quarter and full-year 2015 were unfavorably impacted by the economic hedges we put in place to reduce currency exchange rate exposure associated with the British pound-denominated cash portion of the announced acquisition price for Rexam and to mitigate exposure to interest-rate changes associated with anticipated debt issuances also in connection with the cash portion of the proposed transaction.
These economic hedges allow us to lock in transactions purchase price economics though they will likely continue to cause disruption to quarterly GAAP earnings.
Details on these economic hedges are provided in Note 2 of today's earnings release.
Credit quality and liquidity of the Company remains very solid with comparable EBIT to interest coverage at 5.6 times and net debt to comparable EBITDA at 2.5 times including the non-current restricted cash sitting in escrow from the December U.S.
and euro bond placements.
The Company has enough committed credit and available liquidity at year end to consummate the proposed Rexam transaction and provide ongoing liquidity for the Company.
For a complete summary of fourth quarter and full year 2015 results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis and details regarding the fourth quarter and full year please refer to the notes section of today's earnings release which includes a simplified table format summarizing business consolidation activities.
Now moving to operations.
Our metal beverage Americas and Asia segment comparable operating earnings for fourth quarter and full year 2015 were down slightly year-over-year mainly due to unfavorable pricing in China slightly lower performance in Brazil and project start-up costs in North America.
Segment volumes in the quarter were up approximately 5% and just up over 1% for the full year 2015.
Our Monterrey Mexico can plant just began producing cans and ends earlier this month.
Our second can line will come up mid-year in China.
While volumes remain relatively healthy the overall pricing environment remains extremely challenging and our aggressive cost out programs have not been able to keep up with the price erosion and we expect to be down in profitability again in 2016 in this region.
European beverage comparable earnings were up nicely in the quarter due to aluminum premium tailwinds of €6 million as well as improved plant utilization for the full year.
Comparable earnings were down approximately $20 million to unfavorable foreign earnings translation.
On a constant currency basis they were up year-over-year.
Low single-digit volume growth and low double-digit specialty can growth continue to reflect the ongoing value-added benefits of the can with European consumers.
Food and household comparable segment earnings were down in the quarter as segment volumes declined following the customer shift in U.S.
food cans as well as manufacturing inefficiencies.
Excluding the customer shift our food can volumes were down slightly in the fourth quarter due to the earlier conclusion of the pack late in the third quarter but up for the full year.
For the fourth quarter and full year the segment was also impacted by unfavorable earnings translation related to the European portion of the extruded aluminum aerosol business and start-up costs related to numerous capital projects across the segment.
Our next-generation lightweight steel aerosol can manufacturing technology is now commercially available on shelves and further growth in our global extruded aluminum businesses as well as significantly better operating performance in our tinplate businesses will provide good opportunity to improve segment performance in 2016.
In summary our global packaging businesses are extremely focused on driving EVA dollars from our new capital projects.
To employees listening in on today's call thank you for all the great work during what has been one of the busiest times in our Company's 136-year history.
Now as we look to 2016 reflecting Ball as a standalone Company today here is a snapshot of some key financial metrics.
We expect free cash flow to be in a similar range as 2015 excluding cash costs related to the Rexam transaction with CapEx expected to be in the range of $400 million and working capital expected to be generally flat year-over-year.
Interest expense is expected to be roughly $145 million excluding debt refinancing and other costs.
The full year effective tax rate on comparable earnings is expected to be in the range of 25%.
Corporate undistributed is expected to be in the range of $75 million a year-over-year reduction of $17 million.
Also recall that due to the acquisition of our JV's partner's interest in Brazil our outstanding shares at the beginning of this year are higher by 5.7 million shares and we will no longer have any effects from this business in our non-controlling interest line on the income statement.
We expect our dividend to remain unchanged from its current level during the proposed acquisition process.
In 2016 we expect all of our segments to be up on a full year basis with the exception of China beverage can business.
While we expect the first quarter to be relatively soft due to the re-pricing of our contracts in China challenging comps in our food and household products business and the closeout of startup expenses on our various capital projects momentum will accelerate as we move through the year.
One final heads-up before I turn it over to John.
As we look to the successful closing of the Rexam transaction we currently plan to incorporate into our future comments a focus on cash earnings per share due to the large amount of intangible amortization we expect to record for the Rexam transaction.
With that I will turn it back to you John.
Thanks Scott.
Our aerospace business reported a solid quarter given the difficult comps they were up against.
Contracted backlog held steady ending the quarter at $617 million.
More exciting however is what is in front of us.
Over the past few months our aerospace business has won a variety of classified and non-classified programs that are worth over $800 million that have not yet been booked into our backlog as the contracts need to be signed and in several cases the funding needs to be approved by the U.S.
government.
In addition we still have a number of additional proposals submitted for award that collectively measure in the billions.
A terrific job done by our folks and we continue to be amazed by the creativity agility and patients that they have shown.
The near-term goals for the aerospace team are to finish strong on existing programs and ramp successfully on the new work throughout the second half of 2016.
Now turning to the future we continue to make progress on our proposed offer for Rexam and we look forward to reaping the benefits of growth capital deployed in 2015 through improved performance as well as the higher EVA dollar generation that these important investments will provide.
While our biggest challenge is to weather the unsustainable pricing environment in our China beverage can business overall we feel good about where we are.
Our objectives are consistent with last year.
Successfully execute our capital projects generate strong free cash flow grow our specialty businesses focus on cost optimization and manufacturing performance and cross the finish line on the proposed offer for Rexam.
Together we are working hard to improve Ball in 2016 and beyond and we look forward to a successful year ahead.
With that Tia we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] First question is from the line of Ghansham Panjabi from Baird.
Please proceed.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Since you last reported one of your competitors announced that they are adding their first new metal beverage can plant in the U.S.
since 1993.
How do you view this announcement for the industry first off and does this impact your strategy in any way as it relates to how optimized your production footprint is between standard and specialty cans in the U.S.? Obviously we are aware of that Ghansham and I cannot comment of the thought process around that.
I can tell you that specialty cans continue to grow strongly and that they are probably just trying to keep up with their own demand.
I can tell you from our perspective that our system is in good shape.
We continue to grow specialty containers off a relatively high base already and we are trying to manage the 12-ounce capacity and what I mean by that is for example in the last quarter or so we have actually converted a line from 12 ounce into specialty containers and we have been just following that strategy we have been embarking on for a number of years now.
Okay.
Just I guess my second question related to Rexam understanding the sensitivity around that but just given the specific divestiture concessions for both Europe and Brazil that you have announced how should we think about the buckets of synergies that you outlined at the outset of the deal? I think you had previously outlined 44% G&amp;A 22% freight et cetera.
Should we expect a different weighting going forward based on what you know now? This is Scott.
I would not change the buckets too much.
You know all that stuff will move around once you get to closing we will be able to give you a lot more clarity about that but for right now we are not updating what those changes might be.
Yes.
Ghansham this is John.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks due to U.K.
Takeover Code and some of the rules and restrictions around it we are just not in a position to comment any further than we have.
Okay.
Thanks so much guys.
Yes.
The next question is from the line of Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Good morning John.
Good morning Scott.
Good morning.
Good morning.
John I wondered can you provide just any kind of update on the process with the regulators in the U.S.? Nothing other than saying that we are in discussions and that we have said in our earnings release we expect to close the transaction in the first half.
Most likely it is probably going to be in the second quarter of 2016.
That is what we expect as we sit here today.
Okay.
All right just as a follow on is it possible to get any color on bev can volumes and mix over in Europe in the fourth quarter and what you are expecting in '16? Yes.
Well I am happy to go through that.
Remember fourth quarter is a seasonally slow quarter so I will start with that.
I think overall the market in the fourth quarter was down slightly and we were down a little bit more.
Most of our decline had to do with actually exports.
I think on a Continental Europe basis we are right in line with the market.
Some of the exports that we had in Africa as well as in the Middle East which are a little bit slower but again I do not read into that much at all because it was the fourth quarter which is always seasonally slow.
I will point out and we have talked about this in the past that 2016 is an even numbered year and typically even numbered years there are many events including the World Cup including various soccer matches that usually show a little bit better than the odd years so we are coming off an odd year where the overall market as well as Ball was up about 2% so kind of in line with what our expectations.
Depending on weather and depending on some other things I think 2016 we see the same trends continue in Europe with growth in the beverage can at the expense of returnable glass and other substrates.
Okay.
Can I get you to make kind of some of the same comments just around Latin America? I think with all the difficult economic conditions down in Brazil but at the same time we have got the Olympics coming up down there any thoughts about that in the entire region in '16? Yes.
You know it is interesting.
As you all know the first half of 2015 we were cycling off some very difficult comps from the World Cup in '14.
What we saw it was relatively soft in the first half.
Then second half in Brazil picked up nicely.
In the fourth quarter I know the overall market was up 6%; we were up a bit more than that.
I think a lot of the trends that we have talked about in the past continue meaning that the can continues to take share from other substrates in the beer category.
I think specialty growth is occurring at a faster rate than standard containers.
We are almost at not quite but almost at a 50-50 mix between standard and specialty down in Brazil.
As we go into 2016 yes there is a lot of political uncertainty and economic uncertainty but the facts have not shown that the beverage can has been hurting.
People are still eating people are still drinking and I think while the Olympics in Rio is a help people have to remember it is only just the Rio region but that is a very densely populated area so I think it should be beneficial.
As we sit here today we are not expecting large growth in Brazil but the can is holding up very well relative to other substrates and relative to other industries.
Okay.
That is great.
I will turn it over.
The next question is from the line of Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just wanted to go back to the guidance for a minute I think you talked about - if I heard correctly flattish free cash flow or similar range free cash flow 2016 versus 2015? Was this… That is correct.
…but you also said all the segments ex-China you are expected to see some improvement so is it predominantly FX or some pension headwinds or what is causing that the variance between those two? Well both of those statements are correct.
I mean if you think about '15 it was a year of a lot of headwinds.
We expect most of those headwinds to dissipate as we go into '16.
Currency will have less of an impact we will have less start-up costs we will have a little bit in the first quarter but then that should dissipate and some of the one-time things we experienced in '15 we do not expect to experience again in '16 so… I think the only other thing from a cash flow perspective is we kind of pointed out that we expect working capital will be relatively flat so it is not a net inflow of cash but we are going to have a lower CapEx as well.
Yes.
…and we will probably have some pension funding and other things year-over-year that maybe helps address the bridge you are trying to create.
Okay.
How much is pension funding 2016 versus 2015? Yes.
'15 we had a little less than $20 million globally of pension funding.
In '16 we expect that number to be closer to $50 million of funding and expense will be down about $7 million year-over-year.
Okay.
When I look at the North American metal food and household business I mean the margins have been up fairly nicely this year from an EBIT perspective.
I assume that part of that was because you got rid of some lower margin business with the customer transition but is there a possibility for more margin improvement within metal food and household as we move into 2016 just as you do not have to take a lot of that capacity out of the system in 2016 and you have got plants and end making facilities in the right locations at this point in time? Yes.
Let me kind of give a little different perspective because I think about absolute EBIT in that business.
You know the loss of the announced customer contract obviously hurt and Scott mentioned continued manufacturing inefficiencies and a little bit of start-up hurt as well.
As we go into 2016 we continue to look at rightsizing our fixed costs and we are going to be accelerating those efforts in 2016 because while our margins were up you are correct the overall profitability was not where we hoped or expected so we have a lot of programs in place to drive those earnings back to where we think should be normalized.
Okay.
Thanks.
Yes.
The next question is from Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
In Americas and Asia bev I think you indicated segment volumes were up 5%.
I am wondering is it possible to parse that out between U.S.
Latin America and Asia.
Then just on Monterey if you could give us a little more color? It sounds like the first-line is fully contracted out and running.
I am just wondering can you confirm the second-line is contracted out as well.
Let me hit that first.
Yes.
We can and it is going to be up and running as we said kind of a little bit later on this year kind of three months to five months after the startup of the first-line so call it late second quarter early third quarter is a good way to think about it.
Getting back to your volume question in North America we were actually up a little bit in the fourth quarter.
Some of it driven by continued directly back filling some of the Monterey Mexico volume that you had just referred to as well as continued decent growth on the beer side of the category.
In Brazil we were up nicely in the fourth quarter and even in Asia even though we put no new capital in there our folks have been able to squeeze out a fair amount of new capacity with our existing asset base and we were up about 10% or so in China as well.
Overall it was good volume growth in that segment.
Okay.
That is helpful.
Then just following up on Scott's questions on food and household I guess segment earnings were down $45 million roughly from 2014 to 2015.
Given the new capital projects you put in place is it possible to frame how much of that you may be able to make up in 2016? I mean is it half of it or most of it or could you even potentially exceed 2014 earnings levels in a really good year or just how should we think about kind of the earnings recovery potential in food and household in '16? This is John.
Why do not I take it? I think as we said earlier 2015 there is no short-term solution to some of the issues here but we expect it to be up meaningfully.
Can we get back to the height of that profitability? Over time we expect to yes but it is not going to be happening in one year.
It is probably a two-year to three-year to four-year program depending on how the end markets shake out.
Recall let me give you a couple of drivers of some of that stuff.
On the aerosol side of tin plate we have the new G3 technology that is out that Scott mentioned is on the shelf right now.
Number two in terms of overall aluminum aerosol growth that continues to grow well.
Just to give you a sense in 2015 we were up on a global basis in aluminum aerosol about 5% 6% so that is good news and we are going to continue to drive that and our business is performing there and then we have got to get these manufacturing inefficiencies in our food can business in line.
Okay.
That is very helpful.
I will turn it over.
Thanks.
The next question is from Tyler Langton with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Good morning.
Thanks.
I think Scott you mentioned that performance was lower in Brazil but I think I guess you mentioned volumes were up more than sort of for you more than the 6% for the industry.
What exactly was driving that lower performance? I mean I think there was a little price pressure but nothing material but a little bit of price pressure.
When you said lower performance did you mean results were down year-over-year or just a little bit weaker than you would have thought? They were a little weaker than we expected.
Okay.
Then just for Europe I think you mentioned the premium benefit was €6 million and FX was a $20 million hit.
Could you just bridge the gap a little bit more on profits? I think you mentioned plant utilization was a benefit this quarter and if there is any other factors driving the year-over-year increase? Yes.
A good chunk of it was the utilization but they are also doing a very good job on the cost outside.
They have been taking cost out throughout the year so you are seeing the benefits of that as well.
Yes.
The other thing I might add is recall on the October call we talked about we had some of our pattern freight in the third quarter because our Oss Netherlands facility had come on stream but not on stream in time to really have the high summer season so as we went to a more slower season we were able to balance out the footprint a bit better and get rid of some of that out of pattern freight and cost.
Got it.
Okay.
Then just last question.
I think you mentioned CapEx of $400 million this year.
Is that a fairly good number for you guys going forward sort of big investment years for CapEx? I think that is a good number for '16 but we will see what kind of opportunities.
We have been fortunate that we have found a lot of good opportunities Monterrey Mexico would be a good example of that.
Some of the things we are doing on the aluminum aerosol side so we are finding good opportunities to put money to work and get the returns that we expect.
Right now as far as I can see forward in 2016 that is the number.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
The next question is from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Scott you talked about the first quarter being soft on account of China startup food and household the basket.
Can you talk about what that implies in terms of any year-over-year change in earnings? No.
I think what I have said in my prepared comments I would stick by that.
Performance is expected to be up in all the segments.
China is the only one that will be softer.
Okay.
One question… Unfortunately we are real limited as to what we can say… Sure.
….in terms of outlook so I apologize for being not as transparent as we would like to be.
Totally understood one more question you might be able to answer it perhaps not but in terms of the Rexam deal what exactly where you required to update in terms of your divestiture and synergy estimates if either when you issued the press release a couple of weeks ago regarding the divestitures in Europe and Brazil? What will you would be required to update along those lines when you provide the market with information regarding the FTC outcome? Well we updated in December when we sold bonds so that is why we had to update until we get further along in the process and get definitive agreements in all these regions.
Okay.
A couple of more you talked about cash EPS.
Are you planning to report both cash EPS and adjusted EPS once the deal closes or strictly cash EPS? No.
We will talk about both.
Our focus is always on file to cash and so I just want to give people a heads up.
With this transaction there will be a fair amount of amortization.
We will talk about both but we will our focus is on generating cash flow and so some of the accounting loses some of the context of the cash and to me the cash is the important part.
We will give you both numbers.
Thanks.
Just two more pension expense I think you mentioned would be down $7 million in '16.
Is that related to an accounting and did you make an accounting change similar to what other companies have been doing? Got it No.
We did not.
That is just some things we did last year in terms of some buyouts of buyouts of closed plants and some of the changes in the interest rate assumptions both on the discount rate and then the return on asset assumptions so the combination of all those factors led to that $7 million decrease.
We did not change anything else fundamentally.
Got it.
Just one more in terms of the cash flow statement you had that other line there was a $145 million benefit in '15.
Can you just explain what exactly that was Scott? Was it expense in excess of cash contributions or what drove that? Most of that difference is the non-cash business consolidation cost that gets added back and the pension funding difference I am sorry in the other line.
Yes the pension funding difference would be the big part of it expense versus funding.
I mentioned our… Right.
Our funding was only about $20 million our expense last year was about $95 million.
Got it.
Thanks a lot Scott.
Appreciate it.
Yes.
The next question is from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Good morning George.
Good luck with all of your processes here.
I guess the first thing I had I wanted to go back to aerospace and the significant jump that you saw in the well not the backlog yet but totally in terms of contracts that you have won.
I also recognize that you have got a lot of projects in the black that you cannot really talk about.
To the extent that you can comment what trends are you seeing in the contracts where you have been winning and what does it mean for the future of that business? Well George I think from an I will call an end market perspective a good amount of it is DOD.
I think we have talked about this in the past but NASA has been flat to down over a number of years but I think as we talked about last quarter with this new budget in place the sequestration unless it goes away sequestration is off of the table and there is a multi-year ability to fund programs that have been can lingering to the side.
That is the vast majority of it.
When you think about what we do for the DOD it is everything from satellites to sensors but whether it is optical or antenna type sensors.
It is a whole mix of those various things.
We are quite pleased and proud of our folks quite candidly because it is not in any one place.
It is not in only satellites or only tactical gear.
It is not only in cost plus it is not only in fixed price it is kind of a blend of everything so I think the portfolio effects of what has been won but not booked right now we feel good about.
As I mentioned we have a whole bunch of other stuff we are chasing down as well.
Okay.
John I mean I take from your comments that given it is a blend of everything but you did not really highlight one or the other you would prefer not to get into that but if you did not mind do you have kind of a view that you could share with us on again fixed price versus cost plus or antennas versus satellites et cetera? Yes.
A lot of it is classified George so I cannot but what...
Understood.
I would tell you is from a big picture perspective you have a sense of what the percentage is of cost-plus versus fixed price.
You have a sense of what is our satellite business versus our tactical business versus our services business.
It really isn't that different than what has been historical.
Okay.
Thank you for the color on that.
Next question I had for you in terms of CapEx for 2016 and the figure that you cited.
From a real world or practical standpoint how challenging is it right now or is it to plan on projects fund projects when frankly you do not know quite how your portfolio will evolve over time for obvious reasons.
Can you talk a little bit to that again to the extent that you can comment? Well yes.
Let me take a first stab at it.
George you raised a fair point but where we are putting this capital is what we think is long-term good for Ball Corporation going forward so you talk about Mexico and putting a second line in a little bit later on.
You talk about end capacity in Lublin Poland and increasing the end capacity there.
You talk about impact extruded of what we are doing whether it has been in India historically whether it is in the Czech Republic that we talked about.
It is those types of things.
I think if I understand where you are going is pro forma any potential direction does that have any impact and all the things I just laid out do not.
That is great John.
That is where I was going with the very clever question.
Next question I had for you just on food.
This business has evolved food and household significantly from the early 1990s.
There have been good years and the bad years.
Certainly you have been cycling through some more challenging years.
I am guessing because of the growth especially you are seeing in aerosol and household the answer is going to be no to this but I guess the question I still have is has the business gotten at least some elements of it to subscale where you do not know that you necessarily have quite the same competitive standing that you might have had or would you say where Ball Corporation is pretty much as competitive as it has always been in the food business.
If so why would that be the case? No.
That is just the start.
But its recall that everyone of our tinplate facilities makes both food can and aerosol and so if it was just isolated in the food can you would start to think about scale but it is not.
We view this and we run this business as it come from manufacturing footprint perspective as a combined and we are able to leverage the manufacturing expertise because what we are talking about effectively is three-piece tin plate containers.
Okay.
Last one and I will turn it over.
You mentioned at least the implication is Brazil should be Brazil has been holding up better than expected.
I forget what you said about the volume outlook for Brazil; I think you set up modestly or moderately for 2016.
We have read some reports where some of the Carnival celebrations had been canceled because of all of the economic challenges.
My guess is again you have not seen much effect of that in terms of your volume outlook but to extent you have color one way or another we would be interested in it.
Thanks.
I think I would just give you a comment.
The timing on Carnival will be different.
My guess is that Brazilians have started celebrate Carnival.
The timing is going to be a little bit earlier so that will make the first quarter year-over-year a little bit challenging.
Yes I think what we are planning for and expecting is post Carnival which happens in what a week-and-a-half starts; We will start to see a seasonal slowdown because that is their autumn and it will slowdown and as it starts to get into the second quarter.
I think that is what Scott is referring to.
Okay.
First quarter you do not see that much of a challenge or you do? I guess I was not clear on the answer there? No.
I think let me rephrase it another way.
I think it is only four weeks into the year but I think in January we are seeing exactly what we expected.
We just know that Carnival is a bit earlier and much like when you have the Chinese New Year in China when it is earlier or later it affects before versus after so we did not see a huge run up prior to Carnival but what we saw was certainly in line with what our expectations were.
The question is what happens after Carnival.
Okay.
We will leave it there.
Thanks John.
Thanks Scott.
Okay.
Thank you George.
The next question is from Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
Not sure if you started the asset sale process but I am just curious if you are expecting much tax leakage and when do you expect to get your leverage back to your previous targets? We have pretty active plans in place as to how to minimize the tax leakage.
There will be some where we have I think pretty good plans to make it as small as we possibly can.
Then in terms of leverage we will have to wait and see until we are done but our initial guidance was within 18 months to 24 months we did leverage back down to a pretty comfortable level and I do not see a big change in that.
Well I would have figured that might come a little quicker because the investors are shaking out a little higher right? They might.
Yes.
Time will tell.
We are restricted by what we can say.
So again I apologize for that.
We cannot comment any further.
Okay.
That is fair enough.
Then I understand one of your customers that you are serving in Monterrey just announced another large area on the West Coast of Mexico.
Is that an opening for you guys and will you need to add some capacity to meet that demand? Yes.
It is premature to say but we have got a great relationship with that customer.
It is the fastest growing beer company right now.
You know stay tuned.
That is all I should say.
Okay.
Then on the aluminum premium you gave some color on the quarter.
Can you give us how we should be thinking about the potential tailwind going into '16? It seems like it was a little higher than we initially expected at least? All I will say.
I cannot just comment.
I will give you a quarter.
In the first quarter last year in '15 we had a €7 million headwind and that should essentially reverse in the first quarter of '16.
Okay.
All right thanks a lot.
Good luck to your Broncos in a few weeks.
Yes.
Amen.
There we go.
The next question is from Danny Moran with Macquarie.
Please proceed.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I think you mentioned that startup costs are around $20 million in '15.
Can you just help us with how much lapping of startup cost should benefit 2016 and maybe quantify the impact from Monterrey in 1Q '16? I think we should still have a little bit of a drag in the first quarter and then those startup costs should diminish quite materially so our goal in '16 is not to talk about headwinds or tailwinds on too many other things.
Hopefully it is a more normal year so I think we will get a little bit more cost in the first quarter then after that we probably won't be talking about it very much.
Okay.
Great.
That is helpful.
Then just on the pricing environment and European bev there has been some commentary of some country-specific pricing pressure there.
Can you give us your thoughts on whether you are seeing this as well and if you think it is an issue going forward? Nothing out of the ordinary we operate in a competitive world so you always in today's world where the growth is anemic I think every industry is having pricing pressures but nothing of note.
Okay.
Last question for me is there any way you could break out the metal bev packaging Americas and Asia segment in 4Q? I guess what I am asking is were segment operating profits up year-over-year in U.S.
and Brazil? We typically do not get into that level of granularity.
That is a segment that we report and that is how we talk about it.
Okay.
Good luck in the year guys.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks.
The next question is from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Hi.
Good morning and I do apologize being originally from North Carolina I cannot really share those same sentiments regarding the Broncos but hopefully you will answer my questions.
Anyway I guess the first question has to do with just to make sure I have the share count right should we more or less take the diluted count that you averaged in the fourth quarter and just add that 5.7? I do not know exactly what the pace of buybacks were in the fourth quarter.
Yes.
I would just add that 5.7 back for the beginning of the year.
That is probably the best measure.
The basic is 142 289 at the end of the year including the 5.7 that we issued.
Got you.
Okay.
That is helpful.
By the way is there any reason you cannot continue buying back stock as we approach the closing of the Rexam deal? No.
We are not precluded from buying back stock.
Okay.
You mentioned a decline in the corporate expense and I think in '15 you had some retirements that might have impacted that number but as we think about the future to the extent you can tell us as you envision the Company post-close would the corporate expense line tend to change a whole lot? Maybe will there be more need for that number to be higher or would pretty much all the incremental costs not be in that line? Now I would not expect material changes and we would update you when we get to the closing and tell you what it is going to look like going forward.
Okay.
Then on the CapEx you mentioned 400 this year and is it fair to say that pretty much all of the first line plus I guess the original infrastructure and the new Monterey plant would be in the '15 number or is there a lot of carryover into '16.
I would assume most of the second line would be in '16 is that at all fair? There is a big chunk that obviously was in '15 that drove the numbers and then there is still a fair amount of carryover John talked about a second line coming up here a few months from now.
It is when you spend the money right? Even though the capital we may have gotten the plant up and running.
It is when you are paying for all those invoices that it shows up.
There is still a decent amount of carryover '16 we got some other projects in '16 that we are looking at on as well.
Okay.
Then last question is I know in the past you all have from time-to-time talked about penetration let us say in beer for example.
My guess is in the U.S.
it is somewhere in north of 50% and I am guessing Brazil is probably approaching 40%.
If you could update us on that.
Then John you mentioned that Brazil is now a 50-50 market specialty versus standard and I know there may be differences say soft drinks but where do you see the U.S.
ultimately settling out in terms of specialty versus standard? Yes.
There is a lot of lot of questions in there.
Let me just clarify.
Our portfolio in Brazil is closer to 50-50.
I do not necessarily think the overall market is but to answer your question about where we think specialty can ultimately end up.
Specialty continues to grow and 12 ounce continues to decline in all categories in the United States where it will ultimately get to.
I cannot tell you.
I can tell you we are in it about 30% of specialty in North America relative to the whole and that continues to grow so we will look at the 50% I think it is premature to look out that way but certainly the trends are saying it is going to get bigger not smaller.
Even on the beer side of the business the can penetration to answer your question there I do not have the numbers in front of me but I can tell you that both in the United States and Brazil as well as most other countries the can continues to take share relative to other substrates.
For example in North America the overall beer market was up about 1% cans were up about 2.5% down in Brazil the beer market I think was down slightly but the can industry was up and that was largely driven by beer so the implication of all that is it continues to take share.
I see.
Thank you.
Yes.
The next question is from Rit Liu with Rogge Global.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Can you tell me what the operating earnings were in China for the last quarter? We do not.
That is part of our Americas and Asia segment.
We do not break that out beyond what is publicly released.
Okay.
Can you give us any idea of the magnitude of the slowdown you are expecting in China next year? Just qualitatively as we said the volume continues to grow.
I know the overall can market in China grew about 5 billion cans in 2015 and the growth continues.
Again similar themes is what I just talked about in North America as well as Brazil but the can continues to take share from other substrates in the beer segment.
The problem is the pricing continues to deteriorate as well and there has been material deterioration in the pricing over the last six months over the last 18 months.
As Scott mentioned in his prepared remarks that we expect all of our segment results to be up save for our China business.
The other thing he said was our cost out programs have been unable to keep up with the pricing declines so we are battening down the hatches we are focusing as much as we can on cost but we do expect the results there to be down.
Okay.
Then you mentioned the tax rate of 25% for 2016 can you give me that what you think your cash taxes will be in '16? No.
Not at this point in time.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
The next question is from Daniel Sherry with Loews Corporation.
Please proceed.
All my questions have been answered.
Thank you.
All right we have a follow-up from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Please proceed.
Thanks for taking my follow-ups.
Just one on Brazil Scott or John you talked about a little price pressure there in the quarter even though the can market continues to grow robustly.
Do you expect that pressure to continue this year just in light of your volume outlook? I like any market.
It is a competitive market so nothing out of the ordinary.
So really just a continuation of whatever trends you likely experienced in the fourth quarter?  there is some lapping of that but it was a little bit of price pressure.
I would not read into it too much.
Yes.
I agree I would not read into it too much….
Okay.
Just one on the tax rate Scott I think you guided to 25% for '16.
Obviously historically forget about '14 and '15 but before 2014 the tax rate had been quite a bit north of 25%.
Can you give us what you consider a normalized tax rate for the company long-term if that is possible? Yes.
I think I mean right now it is that 25%.
When we did a restructuring in Europe a few years ago our tax rate had run historically closer to 28% to 29% and with the things that we did it moved down to about that 25% is a decent run rate.
Terrific.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Good morning or good afternoon gentlemen depending where you are.
A couple of quick questions first I want to come back to what you just talked about.
I mean I did hear you earlier in commentary talk about some price compression or price pressure in Brazil.
To my knowledge this is the first time you have ever raised this flag so I respect what you just said that it is nothing unusual but it is the first time I think you have ever mentioned it.
Are you experiencing or do you feel you are experiencing some price pressure in Brazil today or how would we think about that? I would think anywhere around the world that it is a competitive market.
Like I said I would not read too much into that comment.
It is just anytime you are negotiating something customers are trying to get what they want to get.
We are trying to get what we want to get so I would not read too much into that.
All right fair enough I am just noting this is the first time I mean you have been asked about it before but it is the first time you have come out and raised that flag.
Second question I had… I wish there was [ph] a flag.
Second question I had was you did quite a few projects in 2015 adding bev can plants aerosol all kinds of stuff.
How should we think about the phasing as we work through '16 or how would we think about quantifying if it is possible.
What the impact will be as you start to get results from that all your hard work? Yes.
That is a good question.
I will as best try and answer that.
When you think about the projects we have talked about even on this call.
Let us start with Monterrey Mexico it started up this month and so there is always a learning curve there and Scott said we would have a little bit of startup costs but so I would expect kind of the typical learning curve on something like this is three months to six months and so I think as we get to certainly the second half of the year maybe even a little second quarter we will start to see the benefit of that and then we are going to get additional leverage as we put the second-line on that is going to be starting up kind of late second early third quarter so you can hopefully see a trajectory there.
In the fourth quarter last year we started the new line in Devizes in the U.K.
on the impact extruder line.
We started up the India plant.
Any time you start up a new plant the learning curve is a little bit longer than just adding existing line or new lines into existing facilities.
I think that Devizes we feel pretty good about in terms of getting results out of that sooner rather than later.
I think the India one is going to be a little bit longer.
The Lublin Poland we talked about that as we continue to ramp up the end production there we should see some benefit as time goes on but it is a ramp up starting in early '16 as we go forward with that.
We talked about the contour.
In fact I know the last couple quarters we talked about the contour bottle as well as the G3.
It is on the show we are making commercially commercial product right now that is on the shelves right now so we have high expectations as we go into 2016 that you are going to see some momentum there.
All of that leads to exactly what Scott was saying that in the first quarter we still have some startup costs and we are really not getting a lot of the benefits but as we are gaining momentum each month we go by in the year 2016.
Hey Chris.
Let me give you a little bit more color on the Brazil comment because I do not want anybody to leave with the wrong impression.
What I probably should have said is price cost.
If you think about what is going on with energy metal and currency as it relates to Brazil that is really more of kind of the combination of all those things so do not walk away thinking there is something different on price.
Okay.
Actually that is helpful.
Thank you.
Last question when these two new lines that are starting up in Monterrey are they primarily geared to one size? Are those swing lines that are capable of producing different styles types of cans or what type of capacity we added there? How should we...
We have added capacity with multiple size capability.
Okay.
Can you tell us what the rated capacity for those is roughly? There are state-of-the-art high-speed lines so when you think about that I think in the past we said once this all is up and running we expect a couple of billion cans so if you would divide by two that is 1 billion on line or so.
That is helpful.
Thank you guys.
Good luck.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question is a follow-up from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
I just had a quick question.
The deferred tax provision in the cash flow statement you had minus 61 in 2015.
Is there a way as a benefit is there a way to think about that as we go into 2016? I would factor any changes into my comment on free cash flow.
It is just kind of there is a bunch of puts and takes in the free cash flow statement for 2016 so I would just kind of incorporate that into what I expected free cash flow to be in total.
Okay.
All right I appreciate it.
Thanks.
Okay.
Thanks.
Tia why do not we take one more question? There are actually no further questions so I will turn the call back to you.
Okay.
Great.
Well thank you everyone.
Thank you for your patience around our inability to talk about certain things and we look forward to speaking to with you in a few months.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.