Good day everyone.
Welcome to the Bemis First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I will now turn the call over to the Vice President and Treasurer for Bemis Company Ms.
Melanie Miller.
Ms.
Miller please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Welcome to our First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Today is April 28 2011.
After today's call a replay will be available on our website www.bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are Bemis Company's President and Chief Executive Officer Henry Theisen; and our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Scott Ullem.
Today Henry will begin with comments on the performance of the business followed by Scott with comments on the detailed financial results.
After our comments we will answer any questions you have.
[Operator Instructions] Before we begin I'd like to remind everyone that statements regarding future performance of the company made in this teleconference are forward-looking and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors including currency fluctuations changes in raw material costs and availability industry competition unexpected consumer buying trends or customer order patterns our ability to pass along increased costs in our selling prices changes in government regulatory requirements interest rate fluctuations and regional economic conditions.
A more complete list of risk factors is included in our regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010.
Now I'll turn the call over to Henry Theisen.
Good morning everyone.
This was a challenging quarter for Bemis and we are disappointed to have missed the low end of our first quarter EPS guidance by $0.03.
Our guidance for the first quarter incorporated our expectation of increasing raw material costs for the first half of 2011.
However with the escalation of unrest in the Middle East and supply issues in the chemical industry raw material costs increased dramatically during the first quarter particularly the cost of the specialty resins Bemis relies on for our high barrier Flexible Packaging products.
In our Flexible Packaging business segment we use a variety of raw material inputs including polyethylene nylon polyester polypropylene and many others.
Our customer contracts provide for us to adjust selling prices in response to raw material cost changes but there is a time lag between the raw material cost changes and the scheduled selling price adjustments.
Currently the contract price adjustment lag times vary from one month to 6 months.
However the lag time for polyethylene-based packaging is shorter and will be longer for complex multilayer products that incorporate more specialty resins.
During the first quarter of 2011 we experienced more dramatic raw material increases than we expected.
The cost of polyethylene polyester polypropylene and nylon increased in excess of 15% and even above 30% in some cases.
While most of this impact will be recognized during the second quarter there was still a measurable impact on first quarter gross margins.
At this point we recognize the additional cost increases that we will be experiencing in the second quarter.
Clearly our selling prices will adjust to reflect these higher input costs and we will continue to reduce material costs with material substitutions and efficiency improvements.
We have well-established continuous improvement initiatives throughout Bemis that are focused on plant efficiencies and I am confident these projects will continue to deliver value as we move forward.
Looking out through the rest of the year Flexible Packaging volumes are expected to be relatively flat with last year as our customers have began to express some concern about the impact of food price inflation on consumer buying patterns.
At Bemis we expect to see volume growth throughout the year due to the pipeline of new products that we are introducing.
Our rigid barrier platform coupled with our Peel Reseal technology is giving us new market access and expanding packaging formats in existing markets.
Examples of some of these are creamer cups frozen pizza and condiments.
Bemis is gaining growth in these market categories because our products offer convenient features reduce material content and extend shelf life.
Let me illustrate some examples of our innovation.
Our new frozen pizza package eliminates the need for an outside carton therefore reducing packaging content by 30% compared to previous frozen pizza formats.
The opportunity to use less material is critical to our customers' sustainability goals and helps control package costs in this environment of escalating raw material costs.
This new package uses our polyester platform and incorporates our EZ Peel feature for consumer convenience.
This is just one example of how Bemis is providing our customers with packaging solutions that deliver affordable sustainability benefits.
Another example of our contributions to the sustainability needs of our customers is exhibited in the creamer cup business where our rigid barrier technology has reduced the material content by 20% and provides an improved barrier to extend product shelf life.
Our Peel Reseal polyester platform continues to grow nicely as it eliminates the need for reclosable zipper.
This package is primarily used for applications for processed meat and cheese and we see customers using this cost-effective packaging upgrade to add consumer convenience features to their current product lines.
Bemis has also introduced an innovative new condiment package that includes easy-open features premium graphics and a design that offers both a dip format and a pour format.
This new package is being launched in retail stores as well as restaurants.
We are also pleased to see the continued growth of our technology and value-added platforms in the medical device and pharmaceutical markets.
Our world-class manufacturing initiatives continue to expand the new production facilities and improve efficiencies throughout the production process.
Raw material waste reduction programs have become even more important as the cost of resin has increased and we expect continuous improvement through 2011.
In 2011 we are aggressively pursuing the second phase of the Food Americas integration.
In this phase we are optimizing our manufacturing processes to ensure that the right product is produced on the best equipment for that particular process.
This exercise will improve margins by improving economies of scale on certain equipment and taking advantage of best practices across the company.
In addition we are evaluating situations in which multiple product specifications are used for one particular product or feature.
Reducing specifications also reduces changeovers on equipment increases economies of scale and simplifies the manufacturing process.
Streamlining of our product and manufacturing footprint as we continue to integrate the Food Americas operations has led to some additional expenses that total approximately $0.02 during the first quarter.
We expect to see the positive benefit of these initiatives in the current year.
Our earnings per share guidance of $2.15 to $2.30 for the total year 2011 reflects the reality of this volatile and inflationary environment.
This range accounts for all of the known raw material cost increases through today.
We are working diligently to execute our sales and profit growth strategy as quickly as possible and to take the opportunities to shorten the time selling price adjustments whenever possible.
In this environment of specialty raw material cost increases and a cautious demand outlook resulting from food inflation we believe our guidance reflects a realistic assessment for potential outcomes of 2011.
Our financial condition remains very strong.
And while working capital absorbed cash during the first quarter due to higher resin cost we continue to expect strong cash flow for the rest of the year.
We purchased 1.7 million shares of common stock during the first quarter and we'll continue to balance opportunities to invest in prudent capital projects acquisitions debt reduction and opportunistic share repurchases to maximize our return metrics and increase shareholder value.
In summary expensive resin costs will pressure our margins in 2011.
We expect this to be a short-term issue until we get contractual selling prices adjusted.
We are progressing well on facility optimization and new business is ramping up nicely.
We expect our products that extend shelf life will become even more important as food costs increase giving us a competitive advantage in the market.
Now I'll turn it over to Scott for a more detailed analysis of the financial results.
Thank you Henry.
Although we are operating in a challenging raw material price environment Bemis is in an advantageous position in the flexible packaging industry because of our new product platforms and pipeline.
Our volume growth this year is coming from new products and product line extensions which is why we are so focused as an organization around material science chemical engineering and value-added customer relationships.
Unfortunately so far in 2011 our successes with new products have been overshadowed by the volatile and inflationary raw material costs we are experiencing.
In the Flexible Packaging business segment first quarter net sales increased by about 34% of which about 22% related to the fact that we have a full quarter of Food Americas in 2011 versus just one month in the first quarter of 2010; currency benefits increased sales by 2.5%; and the remaining 9.5% growth reflects the impact of higher raw material costs pushing up selling prices in all categories in addition to unit volume increases in categories where Bemis sells higher-priced value-added products.
Mexico continues to deliver improved performance and our business in Brazil is performing well save for the strengthening reais which creates headwinds for our customers that export from Brazil.
We're the largest flexible packaging company in Mexico and South America with nearly $1 billion in annualized sales.
And our business in those regions continues to offer attractive long-term organic growth.
We are also positioned to capture increased margins and returns as those food markets mature to require more and more high technology barrier packaging.
On the other hand our food Flexible Packaging business in Europe now approximately 5% of Bemis sales is subscale and is not meeting our margin objectives.
While our Pressure Sensitive Materials and medical packaging businesses that sell into Europe are continuing to deliver nice results our food Flexible Packaging business participates in a fragmented highly competitive arena.
This will continue to be the case for the foreseeable future.
Our focus is European food Flexible Packaging continuous improvement in manufacturing operations along with volume and margin growth in the niche meat and cheese markets we serve.
The good news is that these European sales which were decreasing for most of 2010 stabilized in the first quarter of 2011 compared to the first quarter of last year.
Flexible Packaging operating profit for the first quarter was 9.9% of net sales.
If we adjust last year's operating profit to exclude acquisition-related fees and include pro forma Food Americas results for January and February the comparable rate would've been about 11% for the first quarter of 2010.
The difference in year-over-year percentage margin reflects raw material headwinds.
Second quarter Flexible Packaging margins will remain under pressure as the dramatic price increases from the first quarter move through our production cycle from raw materials to finished goods but we do expect the second half of the year to return to higher margin levels if specialty resin costs stabilize which is the assumption our EPS guidance reflects.
One of our company priorities is to increase the frequency of selling price adjustments in our customer agreements.
A number of the customer agreements we inherited with the Food Americas acquisition specified 6-month periods before selling prices reset to reflect changes in raw material costs.
This compares to most of our U.S.
Bemis Flexible Packaging customer agreements which generally adjust selling prices to reflect material cost changes every 30 to 90 days.
Going forward we will be working with our customers to shorten the periods between selling price adjustments.
Shifting to our Pressure Sensitive Materials segment which represented about 11% of sales this quarter.
Net sales increased $4 million and operating profit increased $3 million.
Operating profit for the Pressure Sensitive Materials segment trended in the right direction this quarter due to a combination of prudent cost management and good matching on selling prices with raw material cost increases.
On a consolidated basis our selling general and administrative expenses increased sequentially over the fourth quarter largely reflecting the amortization of losses in our pension investments when the markets declined sharply in 2008.
EBITDA for the first quarter increased by almost 20% compared to adjusted EBITDA for the same quarter of 2010 excluding all of the onetime acquisition-related charges from last year.
This would have driven a healthy increase in cash flow from operations this quarter but raw material cost increases resulted in much higher working capital offsetting any cash flow improvements.
Consistent with past years we expect cash flow from operations to strengthen for the remainder of the year.
For the total year 2011 we continue to expect capital expenditures to be approximately $150 million.
Bemis capital investments in materials science research and development is directed at 2 areas: one product categories that offer higher long-term volume growth and margins like semi-rigid packaging packaging that protects food freshness and extends shelf life as well as medical packaging products that require high barrier film properties.
New products and targeted product line extensions will continue to be a key to our Flexible Packaging volume growth.
And the second priority for CapEx is to fuel growth in geographies outside the U.S.
and Europe where we can achieve attractive organic growth rates across our product portfolios.
These disciplined capital investments continue to be our first priority for use of cash flow after dividends.
Our next priority for use of cash flow is to make selected acquisitions when we have opportunities to purchase businesses that fit our strategic and financial objectives.
Finally we will manage our capital structure to give us the flexibility we need to fund growth investments while minimizing our cost of capital.
Translation we want to preserve our investment grade rating while reducing our shares outstanding through opportunistic open market repurchases.
We repurchased 1.7 million shares of common stock during the first quarter resulting in average diluted shares outstanding of $109.1 million for the earnings per share calculation for the quarter.
We reported on our cash flow statement a $16 million payment for acquisitions during the first quarter that relates to a final working capital adjustment payment to Rio Tinto primarily related to cash on hand we received at the close of the Food Americas acquisition a year ago.
We continue to pursue a tender offer for the outstanding preferred shares of our Brazilian subsidiary.
The purchase of those shares is not reflected in our guidance since we could not predict the timing or certainty of the completion of that transaction.
If and when we receive regulatory approval to resume the tender offer we will move as quickly as possible to complete the transaction.
Our guidance for the second quarter of 2011 is $0.48 to $0.54.
This reflects the 15% to 30% cost increases in specialty resins that will be recognized during the second quarter with many of the related customer selling price adjustments occurring late in the second and early in the third quarters.
The reduced earnings per share expectations for the first half of the year have been incorporated into the total year earnings per share guidance of $2.15 to $2.30.
As Henry mentioned the change reflects these dramatic increases in specialty resins costs which tend to have longer lag times for selling price adjustments some further raw material cost increases in the second quarter and then no further increases for the second half of the year.
Now Henry Melanie and I would be pleased to answer questions.
Operator please open the call to participants.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Ghansham Panjabi.
[Robert W.
Baird] In your prepared remarks and your press release you mentioned customers expressing it sounds like incremental caution.
Has this actually translated into lower volumes than you expected or was the comment sort of proactive anticipation on your part? And how Henry would you characterize the current environment versus what occurred in '08 when you had very similar energy and resin spikes? First off we have not seen any drop in volumes in the first quarter related to food inflation.
These are just some comments that we've picked up from a number of our customers who just look at what's going on and are just kind of a little bit cautious going forward.
But we have not seen any effect in reduction in volumes based on that as of today.
And the shortage of specialty resin you referred to which region is being impacted and also which specific grades are you referring to? When we talk about specialty resins the big hits are in the nylons the acid copolymers.
Polyester is a big hit related to the cotton prices.
I think polyester resin is now at its highest level ever going into the water season.
So polyesters nylons high EVAs acid copolymers ionomers all of the things that fit into that specialty area.
And it's pretty much around the globe.
We'll go next to Philip Ng with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Just a quick question on the business that you guys don't have a pass-through.
Are you seeing the same level of success on passing pricing through? We're seeing the same level of passing our price increases through as we characteristically had through the past.
Earlier Ghansham asked a little bit about how this compares to the 2007 and it's very similar.
And we are being successful in first off increasing prices to our non-agreement customers.
And secondly we are actively passing through the raw material increases for the agreements we have.
Inc.</strong> And then you mentioned how you're trying to adjust some of these contracts to have quicker pass-through.
That's a work in progress right because you readjust that every year.
So it's like a 3- or 4-year process or how should I be thinking about that? I think you're correct in saying it's a 3- to 4-year process.
We will work diligently when these contracts come up for renewal to review the terms and improve these terms that quite frankly we can't be in the middle having 6-month escalated/de-escalated clauses we inherited from the transaction with Alcan.
And you can't just be in the middle between our customers and our raw material suppliers and absorb that.
So as these contracts come up especially the ones from Alcan we will actively pursue reduced terms.
We'll go next to Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
A couple of questions.
Firstly on the business that you have the contractual pass-throughs on you talked about there being a longer lag of passing through some of the specialty resins.
Is there a way to break out what part of your business is more exposed to specialty resin relative to the more commodity resins with their faster pass-throughs? If you look at which areas really run the specialty resins it's in our high barrier.
It would be the products that require extended shelf life.
Is there a way that you can give us a number of what percentage of revenues those contracts will represent for you or some order of magnitude of how to think about those -- that business relative to the rest of the company? If you break out our Flexible Packaging business into the various market categories that we sell into meat and cheese is roughly about 30% of our Flexible Packaging.
But then -- and that's going to be one that's high barrier.
Dairy and liquids is way over 10%.
Some of the dry foods category would fall into this.
That's close to 6%.
And then you get into other specialty type areas so that's another 10%.
So it's going to be somewhere over 50% at least.
And then it just depends upon what other specialty resins are in that -- in those more simple categories.
Because even as you look at confectionery and snacks some of the snack foods have a lot of other types of specialty resins in them depending on the type of package.
So medical is in there.
Medical products is between -- depending on if you include pharma.
I guess it'd be close to 10% including pharma with medical.
We'll go next to Al Kabili with Macquarie.
Henry just a question on the Alcan contracts.
You've had the business for a year now.
Wondering of the contracts that you have renewed and renegotiated can you tell us about the success rate on how those have gone relative to shortening the timing of the pass-throughs? Up until today we have had very few -- I'm almost going to say none but I hate to say none without knowing exactly.
But it's very very few that have come up.
They're really going to start coming up later this year the first part of next year.
So we really don't have any experience to pass on to along those lines.
And then I guess the second question would be along the lines of new business that you mentioned.
Any feeling on a flavor of what you're targeting this year in terms of sales for new business and how the margins compare to the Flexible segment average? The new business that we talked about and I think it's a lot like all new businesses will be at higher margins than our average business.
When we introduce products we get an opportunity to price those products and we price those with higher margins.
And then of course as you know over time thanks to the standard curve go down.
But I expect all of our new products will go out with higher margins than the average we have in our Flexible business.
And as far as what the volumes will be I think we can look at growing our new business $50 million to $100 million.
And a lot of that just depends upon how fast we could scale up those products.
We'll go next to Timothy Thein with Citi.
Just going back to the legacy contract issue that you just mentioned Henry in terms of as we look ahead to the renewal of these contracts.
Are there other competitors you think out there that would be able to manage through in this kind of volatile resin and raw material backdrop that we've seen certainly over the last couple of years? Do you think others out there would be able to handle similar delays and pass it -- in this kind of nature of the pass-through? Now what I'm getting at is as those contracts come up are there others out there that you think would be able to absorb a 6 to 9 months lag in terms of the contract terms? I think everyone all of our competitors and everyone in our industry or anyone even really related to the chemical industry has to look at this and say that these 6-month terms that are out there just are not sustainable.
I don't think anybody can absorb the kind of increases we've seen and not be able to pass those through in a shorter period of time.
I think everybody's going to be suffering the same way.
Okay.
And on that as a follow-up I know it's getting harder and harder to track this.
But internally when you guys look at the Alcan synergies I presume they took a little bit of a hit here given the raw material environment.
But how are those tracking relative to the initial expectations? I think that that was tracking very well.
In fact I think we're slightly ahead of where we thought we would be as far as synergies with the Alcan acquisition.
Unfortunately the magnitude of the raw material increases are just varying the good things that have happened along those lines.
We'll go next to George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I wanted to go through the Alcan contracts a bit more.
Would there be a situation perhaps in the future where in order to expedite your ability to pass through on a quicker basis that perhaps you would also be willing to adjust the other terms in the contract to your customer whether it be around margin or some other values to serve? I think when you go in and you talk to the customer it is a negotiation.
And all things will be on.
The margins will be on the line what business you're going to do on the line what kind of terms will be on the line.
I think all of those things are up for negotiation and discussion at the time.
And then you just got to negotiate them.
Some things you give on some not.
And as in most contracts both people walk away feeling that they've gained some things and lost some things in it.
Right.
Okay so it sounds like you're at that stage.
I guess the second question I had maybe for you or for Scott is it possible to determine what the lag effect actually cost you in the quarter? You gave us some guidance around resin and the overall compression that occurred from that.
But if every piece of your business was on the legacy traditional classic Bemis type of contract what would you have sort of had back in earnings this quarter that you lost instead because of the Alcan contracts? George it's Scott.
It's really not possible to track exactly what impact the lag had for different customers and different terms of contracts.
Just we don't have the breakout.
We'll go next to Chris Manuel KeyBanc Capital Markets.
A couple questions for you.
As these businesses are now put together I remember when you laid out synergy targets and such for us one of the components that you hadn't necessarily touched on but you anticipated having some of were revenue synergies.
So as you sit in the business today and have now had about a year or so or a little better of it all together do you have any opportunities you've identified there or are you seeing some? Is that's what principally driving this $150 million or so of new products that you're seeing or is this all legacy stuff or mix? Maybe a little color there would be helpful.
Yes.
Chris it's a good question.
The answer is that certainly having a broader sales bag of products that we can sell is helping our relationship with customers who have broad product portfolios.
And so I think we're seeing the benefits of having both the existing former Food Americas product line but also the new product pipeline that we can offer to our customers and it's helping our ability to get price.
As Henry said before all these customer relationships are driven by a combination of product differentiation pricing and margin terms.
And so I think we're feeling very good about our ability to get paid for our products that have a differentiated position in the marketplace whether they were the Food Americas product line or Bemis product line because they're all now combined.
Okay that's helpful.
And maybe a point of kind of clarification.
As you put new products in place do you kind of end up on the same sort of clock? Meaning can you price it appropriately the day the new business launches or could you kind of end up being behind on some of these already as you're launching some of the new business? When you launch new business you price it on the day that you launch the business.
So you launch it with all the current raw material costs and everything in it.
You get to set that initial price.
We'll go next to Sara Magers with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> Henry in your prepared remarks I believe you mentioned about $0.02 of higher costs in the quarter related to the acquisition.
Am I right in understanding that this is not anticipated? And I guess if I'm thinking about this the right way could you give us a bit more color on what exactly this was? As we talked about optimizing our footprint and optimizing our specifications and in some cases taking a look at where we made 2 separate specifications for packaging the same product and how we put things in our plant we experienced some excess waste in doing that.
We experienced a little bit of extra downtime.
We've had to put a little more work into getting some of the equipment to run efficiently.
LLC</strong> Okay all right.
And so this wasn't something that you had anticipated going I guess before the quarter or when you were doing your due diligence on Alcan? [Technical Difficulty] I'm just wondering was this anticipated this higher costs related to the extra waste and downtime and such? No we anticipated some costs associated with the optimization of our footprint and the optimization of our specifications.
But we had some additional difficulties that we did not expect.
But we're through those now and we expect to see the benefits of making those adjustments as we go through the rest of the year.
We'll go next to Mike Hamilton with RBC.
Inc.</strong> Would like to touch on your comments on European Food Packaging.
My sense and maybe you can educate me if I'm wrong is that some of the volume declines last year was in… [Technical Difficulty] [Operator Instructions] Inc.</strong> All right.
Again back to the European Food Packaging my sense was volume declines last year were in part commodity end that you were willing to lose in the environment.
With the stabilization that's going on could you give a dynamic? Are you working more aggressively in the more commodity area to hang onto share? Is it growth coming in other areas and kind of how are you thinking about that end of the business going forward? We're not actively trying to pursue some of those areas that are more commodity that we let go last year.
Scott's remarks were about stabilizing what we have and it’s is in the niche areas where we compete very well with our technologies.
And our desire is to grow in those niche areas.
We're such a distant minor player compared to the number one person over there in Amcor that we just have to find our spots where we can operate profitably.
Inc.</strong> And one other one.
Obviously a decline in R&amp;D expense sequentially.
How are things looking in there for the year? R&amp;D.
R&amp;D is going very well.
We don't run R&amp;D in a pilot plant or anything.
We actually do it out in our manufacturing facilities because we believe that allows to scale up better.
And it also puts our engineers in the plant with the operating guys so that we run more efficiently.
Our R&amp;D expenses really just kind of track the number of people we have and some minor expenses.
So our R&amp;D pipeline is full.
We've moved into a new facility.
We call it our Bemis innovation center.
We've combined all our technical people under one roof to share ideas.
We're generating a lot of good thoughts and in our R&amp;D pipeline and the attitude in R&amp;D and the morale in R&amp;D is very fine.
And we're just going to have some great new products coming out of there for multiple markets.
We'll go next to George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Two questions on volumes.
Number one did you specifically break out what the Flexible Packaging volume was in the quarter? I think you said something to the effect that the balance that you hadn't called out was a mixture of price mix and volume.
And are we hearing you say that you still expect volume in Flexible Packaging to be positive this year or you are less certain and it's probably flat on an acquisition-adjusted basis given what customers are starting to fear anyway in terms of food inflation? George volume was up slightly in Flexible Packaging especially in the areas where we're selling high barrier property films.
The real growth in the balance of 2011 is going to come from new products and new product line extensions.
There's not -- we don't see a lot of volume growth in the market overall but we're feeling good about our volume prospects just because of the new product pipeline that we're rolling out.
And then specific to one product you mentioned this replacement that you have for the frozen pizza market with your flexible packaging replacing the carton.
Now the interior of the product is there still a tray with a susceptor or is this -- is the flexible package entirely replacing both the carton and the tray? This would be a frozen pizza so it would have a corrugated platter if you want to call it on the bottom and it would have a I call it a rigid forming film so that it can support the sides.
And then a lid stock a printed high barrier lid stock.
So what you're really doing is you're taking away the carton and the package is replacing the protection and the stiffness and the support that the carton supplied.
We'll go next to Chris Manuel with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
I really do have a couple of questions for you.
First is when you're looking at this new product development and such that's going on is it tend to be -- with the spike up here in material costs and such have you seen things accelerate? Have you seen some projects maybe get put on hold for a short period of time until things level out and get comfortable to launch or have things decelerated? Can you just maybe give us a sense of customers' acceptance or desire to put new products out in the market right now? I think the customers' desire to put new products out in the market increases in times like this because they all recognize that packaging is a differentiator from other people in the marketplace.
And they want to be the first one out there with those new packages.
So you really don't see big changes in that occurring in our R&amp;D area.
The same push the same drive by our customers to introduce those new products and those new packages continues.
There's a second element as well which is there's a lot of focus on material content reduction and sustainability where Bemis really has a leading edge.
And as Henry mentioned a couple of new products like creamer cups for example where we are saving a lot of material saving costs for us saving costs for our customer and meeting the -- some broader sustainability objectives that I think we all have.
Yes.
That's helpful.
Because I find it hard to believe that as you're bringing these new out they tend to replace some old ones that you aren't able to accelerate some of the terms as you renegotiate or redo those contract.
That's correct that's correct.
My second question had to do with kind of as you look at your portfolio and you look at branded business versus private label business.
As all these price increases have rolled through it’s been more and more challenging to the branded products businesses out there.
And it seems to be private label again picking up some more share.
What's your mix with those 2? And have you seen anything like that in your I don't want to call it backlogs but your new business activity? Yes.
Historically we have sold same products to both the branded customers and to private label customers.
Oftentimes the contract packers are making both branded and store brand on the same lines.
What we've seen is -- in fact some of the growth that we're seeing is from store brand contract packers and customers.
And so we're feeling good about having that shift well covered.
The interesting thing is that the store brand customers the private label manufacturers want the same types of convenience features and quality graphics properties and of course all the food protection requirements as branded food manufacturers want.
And so we like the private label customers just as well as we like our traditional branded customers.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next George Staphos of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Last question for me.
Clearly over time you've done a very very good job in Latin America in improving returns and you should be commended for that.
I wanted -- if you hadn't mentioned in the past on this call could you give us an update on how Mexico stands relative to some of these issues and opportunities you saw for that business? And then related question the European Flexible Packaging business has been I think to be fair an under performer for most of the last decade.
Certainly there have been years where it's done well other years where it's not.
You can agree or disagree with that premise when you answer the question.
Are you getting to a point where strategically it makes less sense to have that in the portfolio Henry? Or does it serve a need and you see it as a long-term player within the whole of Bemis? Thanks guys and good luck on the quarter.
George first question on Mexico.
We are really pleased with the performance of our Mexican operations.
Two years ago our business in Mexico was struggling.
The Food Americas business in Mexico when we actually closed the transaction was not performing up to expectations.
And our management team there has done really an excellent job of turning that business around and improving what is now a combined business.
And we've done it through focus on profitable customers and focus on the manufacturing footprints that we're running very efficiently there.
Second question on European Flexible Packaging you're right.
This has been a long struggle with our business there.
We are subscale and it's a very difficult market environment.
And so what we're really focused on is what we can control.
We cannot control how many competitors in the marketplace.
We cannot control how our customers behave.
What we can control is how efficiently we run our plants and the markets on which we focus which are really niche markets around meat and cheese where we have a differentiable product that we can compete with in the marketplace.
And we're going to continue to do that.
George many of our customers both from North America here have operations in Europe have operations around the globe.
And we're going to work to strengthen our European operations.
We're committed to being in Europe and we're going to fix Europe.
It may take us longer because we are such a smaller player.
But we have customers in Europe and we're going to service those customers long term.
We'll go next to Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Two quick follow-up questions.
One Henry can you just give us an update of how your FreshCase offering is doing in the case-ready marketplace? We just had an American Meat Institute packaging show and we introduced FreshCase there for a lot of people who come in.
It's the first time many customers had an opportunity to see it.
It is generating tremendous interest and people are excited about it.
We have numerous trials going around with various customers.
I expect to start seeing FreshCase in the marketplace later this year.
Okay and then just shifting back to resin.
We had a meaningful increase across the commodity grades in April and I think there is more increases on the table for May.
Does your guidance reflect -- does your updated guidance reflect the full price hikes that were implemented in April and the potential increases in resins? Yes they do.
We are -- our guidance reflects all proposed price increases and ones that are also effective as of today that we know about.
We'll go next to Tom Mullarkey with Morningstar.
A follow-up on George's question about the new pizza packaging.
I was at the AMI Expo a couple of weeks ago and saw it and I think it makes sense compared to other pizza packaging options.
But can you remind us prior to this new package what your exposure was to the pizza market? And given that your existing customer that's getting this new package appears to be in the high end of the pizza market how much penetration do you actually think you can get in the grocer shelves? In the self-rising pizza we have a major position in there in the self-rising pizza business.
And I don't know if this is going to give us more market share but I'm certainly hoping that our customers sell more pizzas and that's our growth in that area.
And at this time there are no further questions.
Thank you very much operator.
We will be attending several conferences over the next 2 months and we look forward to seeing many of you there.
Thank you all for joining us today.
This does conclude today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to the Bemis Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I will now turn the call over to the Vice President and Treasurer for Bemis Company Ms.
Melanie Miller.
Ms.
Miller please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Welcome to our second quarter 2011 conference call.
Today is July 27 2011.
After today's call a replay will be available on our website www.bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for the call today are Bemis Company's President and Chief Executive Officer Henry Theisen; and our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Scott Ullem.
Today Henry will begin with comments on the performance of the business followed by Scott with comments on the detailed financial results.
[Operator Instructions] Before we begin I'd like to remind everyone that statements regarding future performance of the company made in this teleconference are forward-looking and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors including currency fluctuations changes in raw material costs and availability industry competition unexpected consumer buying trend changes in customer order patterns our ability to pass along increased costs in our selling prices changes in government regulatory requirements interest rate fluctuations and regional economic conditions.
A more complete list of risk factors is included in our regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010.
Now I'll turn the call over to Henry Theisen.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Before I get into the details of our business initiatives and expectations for the rest of the year I'd first like to update you on the challenges that our industry is facing in 2011.
Since October of 2010 we have experienced steady increases in raw material cost especially resin and film used for our packaging business including steep increases in Specialty Materials in the months of February and again in May.
At this point it appears that the momentum of these broad raw material cost increases have subsided as costs have been fairly stable in June and July.
Our business model is designed to meet this type of challenge by responding in a scheduled way with selling price adjustments that offset the dollar impact of the raw material cost increases.
As we have explained in the past there is a time lag for selling prices to be adjusted to incorporate cost increases and we expect all of our adjustments to be in place on or before the start of the fourth quarter.
The second challenge that our industry is facing is a threat of lower consumer demand for products that use our packaging.
This is not related to the increase in our raw material costs but more directly is related to inflation in the cost of food ingredients.
Food ingredients compromise a much larger portion of the retail cost of our product than our packaging does.
And with meaningful price increases facing retail consumers our customers have publicly expressed concern about the potential impact on demand for their products.
At Bemis our North American volumes were healthy in the first quarter and above average overall for the second quarter with some softening late in the second quarter.
In light of the commentary from our customers we are expecting volumes for the second half of 2011 to be a few percent lower than the comparable volume from 2010.
In Brazil our rigid packaging operations have been dealing with substantial volatility in the cost of polypropylene their main raw material which is affecting our profit margins.
In Mexico we trimmed our volumes in 2010 to restore the region to profitability.
As a result while volumes are considerably lower this year compared to last year the business is now profitable compared to last year when it was operating at a loss.
We continue to be pleased with the progress and performance of our operations in Mexico and look forward to its continued growth in both sales and profit margins.
Our European operations continue to meet the challenges of their very competitive environment with renewed focus on World Class Manufacturing initiatives and sales strategies that prioritize niche projects.
In total we expect raw material prices to stabilize while selling prices continue to rise as pricing agreements adjust in the third quarter.
In this challenging environment which we expect to continue through the rest of the year we are aggressively managing costs and accelerating opportunities to improve.
We continue to transition production to optimum facilities and take costs out of our processes to maintain momentum and continuous improvement efforts.
We have accelerated our World Class Manufacturing efforts and we are aggressively passing through raw material cost escalation to our customers.
Outside our current operations we continue to look for opportunities to expand our reach around the globe and apply our technological expertise to products in other markets.
We continue to see our largest growth opportunities in growing economies like Brazil and Asia and in growing markets like medical and pharmaceutical.
This year's environment is a challenging one but our diligent focus on process efficiency customer service and cost control has prepared our business well for the future.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Scott.
Thanks Henry.
Today I'll begin by focusing my comments on a review of the quarterly results and then review the assumptions used in our guidance for the rest of the year.
Second quarter earnings per share were $0.51 in line with our guidance for the quarter.
This compares to last year's earnings excluding special charges of $0.58.
The decrease in EPS compared to last year reflects higher raw material costs that were not yet reflected in higher selling prices to customers.
Net sales increased about 8% from the second quarter of 2010.
Currency provided an increase of about 3.4% driven by strengthening of the real euro and pound sterling versus the dollar.
The remaining increase was generated by selling price increases on roughly flat volumes.
In flexible packaging overall volumes were also roughly flat.
Volumes weakened in Latin America quarter-over-quarter driven by several factors.
Volatility in the price of polypropylene resin used for our rigid packaging operations in Latin America has increased competitive pressures and reduced operating margins in this category.
While this volume may be restored in the future as these factors change we do not expect them to turn around during the second half of 2011.
Separately we purposely trimmed low-margin business in Mexico during the second half of 2010 in order to improve profitability which was successful.
So year-over-year second quarter volumes were lower.
In addition the strengthening real puts pressure on our customers' exports from Brazil.
Finally the inflationary economic conditions in Argentina have not been favorable for our business in that region.
Continuing through the income statement consolidated gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 17.1 in the second quarter.
We expect this to be the low-point in 2011 as selling price increases boost gross margins during the second half of the year.
Looking at flexible packaging operating profit we reported $116 million or 9.5% of sales in the current quarter of 2011 compared to $130 million or 11.5% of sales in the same quarter of last year after add-backs of special charges.
The decrease in 2011 primarily reflects the impact of increased raw material costs in advance of selling price adjustments.
As we head into the second half of 2011 we expect operating margins to improve as selling prices are adjusted higher to reflect the raw material cost increases we experienced during the first half.
We have implemented selling price increases in our flexible packaging and pressure sensitive businesses to reflect these higher raw material costs.
We reported cash flow from operations of $91 million for the second quarter.
This was a substantial improvement from the $8 million use of cash we reported during the first quarter.
Working capital contributed slightly to cash flow during the second quarter in spite of the continuing raw material cost increases.
The largest use of cash for operating activities was a pension contribution made in April totaling $15 million.
No other contributions are planned for 2011.
Based on capital expenditures we have completed to date this year and our CapEx schedule for the second half of the year capital expenditures will likely total approximately $125 million in 2011.
This is lower than our original guidance for the year of approximately $150 million.
During the first 6 months of 2011 we repurchased a total of 3.8 million shares of our common stock for $123 million.
Future share repurchases will be evaluated among other priorities for cash flow including dividends and acquisitions.
Subsequent to the end of the quarter on July 8 we completed the tender offer for the outstanding preferred shares of our South American subsidiary which were publicly traded.
On July 22 the preferred shares of Dixie Toga were de-listed from the Brazilian Stock Exchange.
The total purchase price was approximately $90 million and there will no longer be a reduction in our income associated with non-controlling interests.
Now looking at our guidance for the remainder of the year resin prices stabilized in June and our guidance assumes that they remain generally flat on average for the rest of 2011.
Our selling prices are increasing to reflect this year's earlier raw material inflation and the net effect will be improving income margins in the second half of this year.
Our earnings per share guidance of $0.56 to $0.61 for the third quarter and $2.08 to $2.18 for the full year reflects this combination of stable costs and increasing selling prices.
Now operator we will be pleased to answer questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     question from Ghansham Panjabi with Robert Baird.
Henry the last time your customers pushed through retail price increases was in the '07 '08 time period.
I think your volumes at that time were also impacted as consumers adjusted their purchasing and obviously it was a weak consumer spending environment as well.
Is what you're seeing now comparable to back then? What you're saying is what happened in 2007 is exactly right and that's what we saw.
We saw our volumes pretty much across the board fall 2% 3% something in that magnitude.
What we're seeing now is warnings from our customers and concern from our customers.
We were relatively flat in the second quarter with last year and what our customers are telling us is to expect slight decreases and their concerns over how the retail environment will react to these price increases.
So it's really kind of a little bit unknown at this point.
Okay and just as a follow-up on your revised guidance for 3Q it sounds like you're still expecting EPS to be nicely up on a sequential basis.
Just based on your comments volumes are expected to be down a few percent I think is what you said.
Is it the resin catch-up the offset on the positive side along with the lower share count? The real part of that is the resin catch-up as our ability we pass through a lot of these increases a lot of our contracts or pricing agreements that fired in the third quarter.
And with stable resin prices we should start to catch up where we should be.
We'll go next to James Armstrong with Vertical Research Partners.
My first question is on the range of the guidance.
Can you help us understand what differentiates the low end of the range with the high end and what factors we should be looking for? Sure James.
It's really going to be tied to how quickly we realize the higher selling prices and that better spread versus the raw material prices that we've paid in the first half.
And so that really explains the $0.05 range $0.56 to $0.61.
Okay and then as a follow-up on a slightly different topic have you already worked through all the synergies of the Alcan acquisition? And should we see year-over-year increases in 2012 from 2011? James we did achieve the cost savings that we expected in 2010 and really the operations are being run together in 2011.
So it's really not possible to break out the difference between cost savings from the integration and cost savings from the World Class Manufacturing initiatives that we have accelerated during the course of this year.
But we expect there's going to continue to be benefits from World Class Manufacturing in the process efficiency programs that we have in place.
We'll go next to Phillip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Yes it looks like your pricing at least from run rate standpoint 2Q decelerate little bit.
I would imagine it would have ticked up.
Was that more of a mix issue or...
From a pricing standpoint no prices definitely increased year-over-year.
Inc.</strong> Okay and then...
There was not -- as Henry had said some of the pricing doesn't go until third quarter.
So but yes we did have positive in all geographies positive price second quarter 2011 over second quarter 2010 [indiscernible].
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And if you assume resin prices do stay stable do you expect to reach the price cost parity by 3Q or more so in 4Q? We would expect to meet price equilibrium with the raw materials at the start of the fourth quarter.
We'll go next to George Staphos with Bank of America.
This is Benjamin Wong filling in for George.
First question is on the cash flow statement specifically cash from operations.
What was behind the big increase for deferred charges and credits? That's mostly where -- the biggest thing there is that pension contribution.
Got it.
Okay.
And as a follow-up Henry what kind of volume trajectory have you seen at the end of 2Q and entering third quarter? We saw in the first quarter healthy volumes which at the end of the first quarter we talked about going to second quarter we saw that same pattern.
We saw that very late in the second quarter just slightly start to decrease and stay flat.
[Operator Instructions]  We'll go next to Tim Thein with Citigroup.
Just to clarify on the guidance.
So going into the quarter you hadn't assumed completion of the buyout of Dixie Toga but now you are.
Is that -- am I correct on that? So if you did it adds call it $0.05 or $0.06 a share on a full-year basis if our numbers are correct.
So can you just clarify that in terms of what -- if you look at the change in guidance from last quarter to today did the buyout of Dixie Toga come into play? The buyout of Dixie Toga did not come into play and given the timing we expect the impact will be nominal in 2011.
But our full year guidance does assume the buyout being completed in the month of July -- or the delisting in the month of July and there's a little bit of a squeeze-out still that’ll come in early August.
But our $2.08 to $2.18 includes the repurchase of the preferred shares in Dixie.
Okay.
And then just coming back on the Henry I guess for you the food price inflation that you mentioned in the release is a potential drag on volumes.
But then you also commented on some new product launches as a positive factor in the second half of the year.
I would think those 2 would be somewhat at odds.
In other words the food and HPC companies potentially throttle back on new products and innovation as they try and focus more on getting price passed through at the retail level.
But can you comment or add any color on that in terms of what you're seeing in the pipeline in light of this inflationary backdrop? When we enter these times of inflationary backdrop what our consumer product companies our customers recognize is that packaging is a differentiator on the market shelf.
And it's a way to differentiate themselves from other products.
So we really don't see a real slowdown or a big change in direction from trying to launch new products trying to get new packaging concepts into the marketplace.
It is really a differentiator and I think that a lot of our launches will help offset some of these volume concerns that we have.
We'll go next to Stewart Scharf with Standard &amp; Poor's.
My question was basically regarding the new products.
Would you be able to expand on that a little bit what products? And going into '12 how much impact that would have on the mix? And I assume they're higher-margin products and how you will be able to sell that considering the weak consumer demand? A good example of some new products that we have coming out are related to the packaging of ketchup for instance in the Dip &amp; Squeeze.
It's a new packaging concept for condiments where can you not just give them away free at a fast food restaurant but they also will be sold in a retail store.
And they're easy-open.
You can squeeze and get your ketchup out or you can dip the ketchup.
It's a whole new packaging concept for condiments that we've launched.
And we've been able to -- and what really allows us to go through and do this is we've been able to put in oxygen scavengers that double the shelf life.
So it's quite a unique technological development to be able to put in that oxygen scavenger.
And it's one of the things that really came out of the acquisition.
When we put the 2 R&amp;D groups together we were able to add technology to their understanding of that product line.
Another one would be FreshCase.
Our launch finally after getting approval from the FDA and going through testing of a packaging concept that preserves the red color of meat in a vacuum package.
And a vacuum package offers a lot of conveniences a lot of extended shelf life.
It offers a new way to go to market.
It offers better economics for our customers.
It fits the shelves better than the rigid tray and we had our first minor sales where we have some sales now in the U.S.
And it's kind of interesting we also have expanding sales in Latin America specifically in Chile.
So those are 2 good examples of where material science drives new products and new concepts.
And at this time we have no further questions.
All right.
Thank you for joining us today and we look forward to seeing you at conferences in September.
This does conclude today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Bemis Company Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I will now turn the call over to the Vice President and Treasurer for Bemis Company Ms.
Melanie Miller.
Ms.
Miller please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Welcome to our Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Today is October 26 2011.
After today's call a replay will be available on our website www.bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are Bemis Company's President and Chief Executive Officer Henry Theisen; and our Chief Financial Officer Scott Ullem.
Today Henry will begin with comments on the performance of the business followed by Scott with comments on the detailed financial results.
After our comments we will answer any questions you have.
However in order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate we ask that you limit yourself to one question at a time with a related follow-up and then fall back into the queue for any additional questions.
Before we begin I'd like to remind everyone that statements regarding future performance of the company made in this teleconference are forward-looking and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors including currency fluctuations changes in raw material costs and availability industry competition unexpected consumer buying trends changes in customer order patterns our ability to pass along increased costs in our selling prices unexpected costs related to plant closings changes in government regulatory requirements interest rate fluctuations and regional economic conditions.
A more complete list of risk factors is included in our regular SEC filing including the most recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010.
Now I'll turn the call over to Henry Theisen.
Good morning.
The third quarter results were within our range of EPS guidance.
Although volumes weakened as the quarter progressed limiting our performance to the low end of the range.
The results vary from region to region so I will go through the details by geography.
In North American Flexible Packaging we experienced lower volumes in most of our market categories.
These mirrors the softening demand experienced by our customers in the product categories that we serve.
In Latin America we experienced substantial volume declines as our customers responded to the slowing economy.
In addition with the Brazilian currency weakening by nearly 10% during the quarter raw material imports to that region became more expensive.
In response domestic suppliers took the opportunity to increase their prices to match this currency move.
This created an unexpected increase in raw material costs in our Latin American operations and will put downward pressure on our operating margins during the fourth quarter as products are shipped.
This is the only region of the world where we are still seeing meaningful increases in raw material costs.
We raised prices in our European food Flexible Packaging business in response to increased raw material costs and reduced volume in more competitive products due to a combination of pricing and challenging economic conditions.
I am pleased to see that the result of these actions sales mix and operating margins in this region have improved.
In our pressure sensitive materials business our roll label commodity product line continues to have volume challenges in this difficult economy.
New products are helping to offset this impact.
Since early June raw material costs in North America and Europe have been generally stable.
This gave us a chance to adjust our selling prices during the third quarter to reflect these increased costs.
We have experienced some minor raw material cost decreases recently but expect costs to remain stable for the rest of the year.
With volumes down and not expected to improve before 2012 our management teams are working aggressively to reduce costs and adjust our workforce levels where necessary to meet lower production needs for the fourth quarter.
The fourth quarter is historically a slower time for us with most of the holiday-related food packaging shipments occurring by the end of October.
November December volume level with fewer shipping days reflect the slower seasonal demand of the winter months and result in lower fixed cost absorption during the period.
This year we do not expect the month of October to reflect the normal seasonal volume strength.
Our lower guidance for the fourth quarter and the total year has incorporated these lower volume trends.
Customer feedback leads us to believe this to be a short-term trend and not a permanent change in volume levels.
We experienced a similar decline during 2007 and during the fourth quarter of 2008 when consumers were forced to tighten their belts and adjust their grocery spending.
In each case we found that our North American customers responded to these market conditions by introducing new products to regain consumer attention.
These new products each represented an opportunity for Bemis to gain new business reset price points and improve sales mix with value-added products.
As I mentioned after the first quarter our customers have been working on new products at a steady pace since our Food Americas acquisition tapping into our new capabilities and taking the opportunity to reinvigorate the innovation process.
One example that we have been touting for months is the Dip &amp; Squeeze product which is benefiting from a successful marketing initiative; stable quick service restaurant demand levels; and their new retail version for the grocery store.
In the food service business our Liquiflex 13-layer high barrier film is generating sales and opportunities as a replacement of the number 10 can.
Switching to our medical device packaging business we have developed for 2 key customers a high-barrier film used to package the new drug-eluting stents introduced into the U.S.
and European markets in 2011.
In our press release this morning we commented on new optimization initiatives that will result in workforce reductions and several small plant closings.
We also expect to incur costs related to this optimization initiatives through 2012.
I'll let Scott get into more of the financial details but these activities will generate savings and operating profit beginning in the first quarter of 2012.
Lastly I want to mention that we acquired a Chinese flexible packaging business during the third quarter Mayor Packaging.
This edition provides our Asia-Pacific footprint with more complex food packaging capabilities including standup pouches and retort technology.
This is a great complement to our existing medical device and shrink bag capabilities in that region.
The operations are well-capitalized and offer room for expansion in the future as we grow our presence in the Asian food packaging markets.
2012 continues to be a challenging year bookended by dramatic raw material cost increases during the first half and meaningful lower volume levels during the second half.
While it is disappointing to have accomplished so much in the business with so little to show for it in the bottom line we are keenly focused on the successful execution of initiatives that will drive us toward our goal of improving operating performance and growth in the future.
Now I'll turn it over to Scott for his comments on the financials.
Thanks Henry and good morning everyone.
Today we reported GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.53 which included $0.03 of transaction-related costs associated with our Mayor Packaging acquisition.
This adjusted EPS of $0.56 was $0.01 less than last year's third quarter adjusted EPS of $0.57.
The increase in net sales of 4.9% reflects 2.3% increase due to currency translation 1% from the addition of new sales from Mayor Packaging our recent China acquisition and the balance from higher selling prices which were partially offset by lower volumes compared to the same quarter of last year.
On average this quarter's volumes decreased by mid-single-digits versus last year's third quarter.
Gross profit margin decreased both compared to last year's third quarter and to this year's second quarter.
While we have been passing along to customers the raw material cost increases from the first half of the year gross margins continued to be under pressure as lower production volumes reduced fixed cost absorption.
Selling general and administrative expenses were down sequentially from the second quarter of 2011 due principally to the reversal of incentive compensation accruals.
Our effective income tax rate year-to-date was 36.2% down from the 36.5% rate for the first half of the year.
This resulted in an effective tax rate of 35.5% for the third quarter.
Note that net income attributable to Bemis is higher this quarter due to the successful repurchase of preferred shares of our South American operations on July 13.
This is reflected in the line item net income attributable to noncontrolling interests which this quarter is only the $348 000 of minority income for the first couple of weeks of the quarter and in future quarters will be 0.
Looking at the balance sheet working capital balances remained higher than they were at the end of 2010 but have come down by over $50 million since the high at the end of the second quarter.
Working capital balances should continue to decline during the fourth quarter as higher-priced inventories shipped and receivables are collected.
Net debt to latest 12 months adjusted EBITDA was 2.4x at the end of the third quarter.
We have used our balance sheet to fund 2 growth acquisitions Mayor Packaging and all the preferred shares of our Brazilian operations.
We also repurchased an additional 1.2 million shares of Bemis common stock during the third quarter for $38 million bringing the total repurchased in 2011 to 5 million shares.
The remaining share repurchase authorization at September 30 was 4.5 million shares.
Cash flow from operating activities for the third quarter was a record $169 million reflecting the benefits of the decrease in working capital levels.
Short term we intend to use our future cash flow to repay our $300 million bond that matures in April of 2012.
Turning to guidance guidance for the fourth quarter is $0.36 to $0.42 bringing total year guidance to $1.90 to $1.96.
This does not include severance charges in the range of $0.04 per share.
These workforce reductions alone will create annualized savings of about $0.06 per share beginning in 2012.
There will likely be additional charges associated with plant closings through 2012.
However the timing and total costs of those actions have not been finalized.
We will provide more specific details for you in our year-end conference call on January 26.
In summary we are facing volume headwinds in our business.
But we have gone through short-term periods like this before.
We have a resilient business model a strong competitive position and opportunities to improve operational efficiencies.
We feel positive about 2012 and look forward to laying out our full year guidance in January.
Now we'll take any questions you have.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two questions for you on volume and SKUs.
The first one if I look back at '07 it took about 4 quarters for you to turn positively on a volume basis.
This quarter you were down -- second quarter you were down.
So should we assume that maybe you have another couple of quarters including the fourth before you turn positive on volume? We had concerns from our customers which we talked about at the end of the second quarter conference call.
Our customers continue to express those concerns.
We've seen them turn into facts so that's why we're guiding that way for the fourth quarter.
What's going to happen in the first part of next year I really don't know how our volumes will turn.
It’ll be mostly based on what goes on in the macroeconomic conditions and how the end-use purchaser of food products responds to this climate.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Appreciate the color Henry.
I guess the other question I had as you analyze your businesses and really here I mean within flexible packaging what percentage of the portfolio do you think right now is actually burning your cost of capital what percentage of the portfolio isn't? And what actions you mentioned some plant closings what actions do you think you might take to remediate the portion of the portfolio that's not earning the margin return that you should deliver for your investors? Well first off the small plant closings that we're going to be doing through the course of 2012 aren't really related to the volumes that we see.
What we're really seeing is as we've talked about we want to optimize our footprint and put the specifications into the best-running facilities so we get the highest margin and the most productivity.
So as we look through and we optimize our specifications that generates activity to move business into other facilities where we'll have a higher return on that business.
And also as we work through as we talked about our world-class manufacturing we're opening up some additional space in various facilities that we're going to take advantage of.
So the small plant closings are not related to really the volumes.
It's related to the opportunities we've generated through specification consolidation and through world-class manufacturing.
And our next question comes from Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> The 5% -- the mid-single-digit volume decline you touched on how does that split between flexible packaging and PSM and I'm sorry if I missed that if you broke that out? That's okay.
Flexible packaging is -- well flexible packaging is 90% of the company so it’s pretty much for flexible packaging.
PSM was down high single-digits as far as volume.
So volume was a little bit worse there but completely offset by a year-over-year price mix improvement.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And on the flexible packaging just sort of based on what Henry's commentary was on the customers what the customers are saying at this point is there any deviation in trend between private label and branded? And also can you just touch on whether you lost any market share during the quarter in North America? As we said in the past we really don't care whether it's a private label or a branded product.
We really didn't see any big switch from branded to private label.
Things were pretty consistently down across the board in both categories.
And as far as market share as I talk to our key operating guys we're not noticing where we would say we've lost market share.
We do have in our more commodity or competitive-driven areas we lose business and we win business.
And sometimes it affects the quarter sometimes you get it back in the next quarter but I don't see any different trends as far as losing market share or losing business than we see in our overall day-to-day business.
And our next question comes from James Armstrong with Vertical Research Partners.
As we look into the fourth quarter are you seeing higher levels of competitive pressure? And is that being translated into lower pricing? Or is this -- or is pricing holding up and this is all a volume effect? Well I think it's all volume effect.
We've worked very hard and diligently to get the first half raw material increases passed through our customers and I think we've done an excellent job in doing that.
What we see really is pretty much across the board volume concerns all related to the price of food.
Okay that helps.
Sorry appreciate it.
And just to dive into the small plant closures are there any regions that you see most of those closures happening heavier or just more in certain regions? No they're going to be spread around.
We're going to have closings in North America South America Europe.
It's really a global effect.
It's not concentrated in one region.
And our next question comes from Mike Hamilton with RBC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Was wondering if you could give a little bit of assessment as you've reflected than what you've seen out of Brazil in currency volatility et cetera.
Is it changing at all how you're approaching the business? Is there anything that can be done that will mitigate some of the volatility that we have seen over the last year currency-wise? That's a good question because the currency changes that we saw in the third quarter have affected our performance.
And also the just overall Brazilian economy slowing down has affected our operations.
As we got together at the end of the second quarter and put together our guidance we really did not expect to see the Brazilian economy slow as it has nor did we factor in the currency effects.
So it did affect our third quarter performance and it's part of our fourth quarter guidance.
The slowing economy in Brazil has affected our volumes more so than we had planned at the end of the second quarter.
And the currency effects it's kind of strange because the currency effects have a change of about 10% with most of -- a lot of our raw materials being imported drastically increased the price of the raw materials and then the Brazilian manufacturers of competitive products also increased price to match this currency effect on imports.
And in all parts of the world we really caught up on the raw material increases of the first half of the year.
This is kind of a unique situation now where our Brazilian operations have to deal with both the volumes and the currency effect raising the raw material costs.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Be careful what we wish for right? Yes be careful of what you wish for.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is there anything that can be done contractually in some of that input costing or are you pretty well there and it's just a matter of dealing with the volatility we got right now? In our Brazilian and our Latin American really don't operate on contracts as much of the North American.
So it's more of a day-to-day negotiation or an order-to-order and our management team in Latin America understands where they operate and they're out pushing these raw material increases through as best they can and I'm sure they’ll be very successful as they have shown to be in the past.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Asha Nampapali [ph] with Goldman Sachs.
Could you comment on your outlook for use of free cash flow going forward as to the priority of using it for reducing leverage or share repurchase as [indiscernible] increases? Sure.
Short term our priority for cash flow is to repay the $300 million 4 7/8% bond that matures in April 2012.
Longer term and over time our priorities for use of cash flow remain the same.
And in order to pay a continually increasing dividend to fund internal growth initiatives to fund acquisitions as they present themselves and as we make strategic decisions to acquire businesses and grow externally and then to balance our capital structure between share repurchase on an opportunistic basis and managing our debt levels.
And our next question comes from Chris Maxwell with Wells Fargo.
A couple questions for you.
Let's start with on the restructuring side and I appreciate you may not have disclosed this to all of workers or things yet that you don't want to get specifically into -- too deep in the numbers but can you give us a sense as to what you're undertaking here in 4Q as a percentage of workforce perhaps or how that’ll impact your utilization and then also give us a sense as to what you're contemplating for 2012 just orders of magnitude of what it could be and also appreciating that you may not fully know how big you want to do yet but just some sense of magnitude as to what the bookends are that you're contemplating for restructuring and perhaps if it makes sense what that might do to your utilization levels? Sure Chris.
First it's not a restructuring.
We're optimizing our operations and there are really 2 components to it.
One is we are reducing workforce in the low single-digit percent of total employees and so making some surgical rightsizings in the workforce that we have in place around the world.
Second we are going to address some small-sized production facilities to help optimize our operational efficiencies and those will take place over the next several quarters.
As we consolidate operations move equipment -- consolidate the operations that are being closed and move equipment -- relocate equipment and production and we'll give you a better sense of how those charges and benefits are going to flow through in our January call.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And the second question I had was around -- I appreciate that you don't know how long volumes are going to remain challenging or things of that nature.
But from your conversations and discussions with your customers have they -- has there been any change in their appetite for product conversion or new product launches i.e.
have they perhaps scaled back the size of any launches delayed any launches? Or is it still all systems go in terms of looking to develop and look at new products.
Just some sense of color as to what the customer mindset would be helpful? I’ve ventured this a number of times where you have some macroeconomic conditions that affect volumes and our customers recognize that packaging really drives a lot of opportunities for them and they have to differentiate themselves on the marketplace.
And as you enter these times I think the product development activities actually pick up because you're competing more and more for that same purchase.
A good example of that is our Dip &amp; Squeeze which has come out now and which is growing and is – you’d think nothing would happen with ketchup but it is generating a lot of sales in the ketchup arena.
And so I think that's a good example and I really believe when you hit these areas new products are what customers look for because it helps differentiate from everybody else in the marketplace.
Also Chris the fact that this is to some degree driven by the increased food prices in the grocery stores our customers do tend to use new products or they tend to repackage their products in order to try and make the food prices increases more palatable and introduce new products in order to create value for customers at this higher price.
And our next question comes from Tom Mullarkey with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First I was hoping that you could maybe expand a little bit on the Mayor Packaging acquisition.
If you look in the coming years will you be looking to gain additional scale in China either through additional M&amp;A? Or is this an acquisition where you can maybe make additional capital investments in the coming years? And also what does Mayor Packaging's existing product mix and customer mix look like? Mayor Packaging I think was a very strategic move for us.
We all know that the Asia Pacific rim is growing.
We have been looking for a good entry where you can get a base to grow your business.
We've acquired I think an excellent operational team excellent management and hopefully they'll be just like our people in Brazil and help us grow the business.
We intend to continue to invest in that part of the world.
We think we have a base where we can move some of our higher technology products that get into packaging proteins.
I think we can grow our medical business on this foundation.
So we hope to expand or we plan to expand both the markets that they service which are in the retort area and the pouch area as well as implant some of our technologies that will allow Mayor Packaging to grow in the protein and the medical device in pharma business.
So I look at it both ways.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And could you provide additional commentary on how the FreshCase film trials have been going in the second of the year thus far? Our FreshCase trials continue to go well.
We are getting more and more people interested in it.
Unfortunately it takes a while to go through all the shelf life testing that's required but we are starting to generate miniscule sales and I'm going to call them almost like trial orders.
But it's generating a lot of activity and I think we'll start to get some traction in FreshCase in 2012.
And our next question comes from Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> With demand coming down a little bit do you have a sense of CapEx is going to shake out next year? Yes Philip we do not have our CapEx plans finalized yet for 2012.
We're still in the range of about $125 million for 2011.
Our depreciation and amortization is up around $215 million and over time you should expect that CapEx will get closer to depreciation and amortization.
But for the foreseeable future it will be less than that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And it sounds like the pricing initiative is still going through so you're not seeing any pushbacks that used to come out [ph].
Has the competitive landscape changed a bit where you’re having a more difficult time pushing pricing through? I think that our ability to push the pricing through that we saw from the raw material increases and commodity increases in the first half of the year went very well.
I think it went just like some of the others that we've experienced in the past.
Customers always want to push back and we know when you have raw material costs that make up 50% of your selling cost you have to get those through or you cannot stay alive.
And our operating guys and our sales force and our marketing people know that very well and push hard to drive those through.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Tim Thein with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> So just looking at the implied guidance for the fourth quarter it's called 1/3 worse than what we thought 3 months ago.
And as I just listened to the various drivers here it sounds again based on the comments you just made Henry that price cost presumably is getting at least close to or caught up in the fourth quarter.
You mentioned earlier that the new product spending and the focus from customers remains reasonably favorable so I would imagine that bodes well for mix.
So just coming back to the volumes you had a quasi-competitor today who does play even more in kind of away from home channel had kind of volumes that were flat to down 1%.
And then -- so I'm just trying to get my arms around where you think the volumes are going? And going back to the earlier comments about market share and I know that's hard to really get at but can you maybe expand on that where you think -- I guess why the conditions have been so much worse than you thought just 3 months ago? Yes there are a couple different influences on our current volume trends.
One is just macroeconomic conditions and what the consumer behavior has done which is weakening the volumes at the retailer level.
Second is that we're in a seasonal period where fourth quarter is usually relatively weaker for us.
Third all of our customers in the supply chain has gotten exceptionally tight at this point in the year.
And so that's constricting volumes as well which has some year-end effect to it that will not -- that we expect will not be the case when we get into 2012.
And then in Brazil the volumes have fallen precipitously from where they were just a couple of months ago.
So those are at least 4 volume trends that are different now than they were earlier this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And staying on the flexible business looks as though margins here will fall below double digits for the first time in our model anyway since back to the early '90s.
Do you think and I appreciate the impact from Alcan as well as some of the other investments you've been making.
But is there anything structural that you would point out that would limit you guys to say look into 2012 and I know you're not giving guidance but that you'd caution in terms of not getting back to double-digits next year based on the way the world looks today? No.
The arithmetic on the percentage margin always goes down in a rising raw material environment because we protect our operating profit dollars but we see no reason why over time we're not going to be able to continue to improve our overall operating profit margins and our flexible profit margin -- flexible packaging profit margins as part of that.
And we'll now take a follow-up from George Staphos.
Research Division</strong> I had to jump off and get on another call but I want to come back to the question I had asked earlier Henry.
So to the extent that you evaluate your portfolio within flexible and to the extent that you've done this analysis what portion right now is not earning a margin commensurate with what you think it should or is earning cost of capital? George it's Scott.
Look we look at return on invested capital very carefully.
And we look at it by a couple different angles whether it's geography customer type of product line.
But we really don't get into talking through publicly relative returns.
What I can say is it's increasingly important it's one of the reasons why you've seen our capital expenditures be very disciplined over the last couple of years and we are continuing to look at businesses where we can achieve over the intermediate term an attractive return on capital because as we think about it with every dollar of cash that we have to spend we can invest it on -- in a whole number of different ways ranging from internal growth investments external growth investments managing our balance sheet and that's just the way we have to approach disciplined use of our cash flow.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess that's helpful.
On corporate expense you've done a nice job of taking that down.
Do you think there's any further room to bring that down Scott or Henry from the $8 million [ph] run rate in the third quarter? Yes we are obviously focused on corporate expense which is the reason why we're taking some of these actions both in the field and at corporate.
I think that SG&amp;A expenses will probably go up again a little bit in the fourth quarter.
But over time it's something that we're looking very closely at.
And it appears there are no further questions.
Thank you very much.
This ends our conference call.
Thanks all for joining us for today.
And once again that does conclude today's call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to the Bemis Fourth Quarter and Year End 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would now like to turn the call over to the Vice President and Treasurer for Bemis Company Ms.
Melanie Miller.
Ms.
Miller please go ahead.
Thank you.
Welcome to our Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Conference Call.
Today is January 25 2012.
After today's call a replay will be available on our website www.bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are Bemis Company's President and Chief Executive Officer Henry Theisen; and our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Scott Ullem.
Today Henry will begin with comments on the performance of the business followed by Scott with comments on the detailed financial results.
After our comments we will answer any questions you have.
[Operator Instructions] Before we begin I'd like to remind everyone that statements regarding future performance of the company made in this teleconference are forward-looking and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors including currency fluctuations changes in raw material costs and availability industry competition unexpected consumer buying trends changes in customer order patterns our ability to pass along increased costs in our selling prices unexpected costs related to plant closings changes in government regulatory requirements interest rate fluctuations and regional economic conditions.
A more complete list of risk factors is included in our regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K last year for the year ended December 31 2010.
Now I'll turn the call over to Henry Theisen.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
I want to begin by recapping our 2011 performance and take some time to talk through our facility consolidation program.
In 2011 we continued to successfully integrate our expanded manufacturing footprint and eliminate duplicative specifications.
In addition we successfully acquired Mayor Packaging in China which gives us a high barrier footprint focused on the growing food packaging market in that region.
In December we bought a small operation in North America that gives us access to the high barrier bulk liquid market from which we intend to expand.
These acquisitions both position us to grow in new markets.
I am pleased that we were able to accomplish these important strategic actions and we enter 2012 with a clear path to grow our operating profit in the future on a global basis.
During 2011 we faced a number of market challenges that led to unsatisfactory financial performance.
I'd like to explain the impact of 3 specific challenges we faced in 2011 and why we feel more confident as we look ahead to 2012 and beyond namely: dramatic resin price increases challenging customer pricing terms and volume decline.
First resin prices increased dramatically during the first half of the year.
These increases were related to a number of market pressures some of which were unique to particularly specialty resins.
While commodity resin costs weakened during the second half offering some relief our specialty resin costs remained flat.
Due to the time lag built into our customer pricing agreements that delays our ability to pass along changes in raw material costs we realized a decline in our profitability throughout the year.
The second major challenge in 2011 was unfavorable price adjustment formulas in certain of our customers' agreements which delayed our ability to pass along higher raw material costs.
We expect to have improved most of our customer pricing agreements to more favorable terms by the end of 2012.
Lastly during the second half of 2011 unit sales volumes softened in high barrier packaging for meat and cheese dairy and liquids specialty food products.
This volume decrease was modest and we believe it was related to the consumer response to higher retail prices in the grocery stores.
We expect these high barrier packaging volumes to grow modestly in 2012 with the commercialization of new business.
In sales of packaging for applications such as confectionery snack bakery pet food and hygiene products the decline in unit sales volume during the second half of the year was reflective of a combination of weaker consumer demand and specific pricing actions that we have taken to improve our sales mix to generate higher profits.
In the fourth quarter we began a facility consolidation that includes 3 main categories of activities: plant closings improved sales mix rightsizing of administrative work force.
We recently announced the closure of 5 North American facilities.
These facilities are smaller in size and therefore more expensive to support with appropriate levels of engineering and administrative talent.
We are closing 3 legacy Bemis plants and 2 legacy Alcan plants.
Production from these facilities is being transferred to more efficient facilities.
In North America Latin America and Europe we reduced our administrative and production workforce in 2011 to match our workforce to meet current production needs.
Some of the benefits of our facility consolidation program will be reflected in 2012.
The majority of the benefits will be recognized beginning in 2013 including improved production efficiency better sales mix and lower fixed costs.
We are also making investments in technologies and geographies where we will continue to see increased demand.
In 2012 we will expand our newly acquired facility in China to meet the growing demand from current customers and accommodate the increasing opportunities for our business in that region.
In North America we are also investing in our high barrier thermoformable sheets for barrier cups and trays where our capacity is nearly sold-out.
During the next 12 months we will improve our expense structure shut down low margin capacity and increase our production efficiency to drive better performance and cash flow in the future.
Now Scott will review the financial results.
Thanks Henry and good morning everyone.
Today I will walk through the results of the quarter as well as the financial details of the facilities consolidation program and then discuss our 2012 guidance.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 excluding special charges adjusted earnings per share was $0.45.
This exceeded our guidance of $0.36 to $0.42 per share as we experienced stronger-than-expected orders in our Mayor Packaging business in China tight cost controls in Europe slightly lower polyethylene costs at the end of the quarter and lower-than-expected benefit costs.
Looking specifically at the operating results of the quarter and excluding special charges the 1.7% increase in net sales reflects the impact of the acquisitions of Mayor and Shield Pack.
Comparing our fourth quarter flexible packaging sales to the same quarter of 2010 selling prices were generally higher across the business in response to the significant raw material cost increases that we experienced during the first half of 2011 and passed through to customers in Q4.
The impact of higher selling price during the fourth quarter was completely offset by lower unit sales volumes in most product categories across our North American Latin American and European operations.
In North and South America the volume decrease primarily reflects soft demand trends for certain customer products including pet food bakery confectionery snacks and health and hygiene products.
In Europe our fixable packaging business experienced double-digit volume declines while sales mix improved reflecting our decisions to take pricing action in certain low margin relationships and focus on business that delivers better returns on sales.
As a result of these volume trends operating profit declined in North and South America due principally to lower overhead absorption while profitability moved higher in our European business reflecting our improve sales mix and expense control.
In total and excluding the impact of special charges flexible packaging operating profit was $111.4 million or 9.8% of net sales in 2011 compared to $119.7 million or 10.8% of net sales during the fourth quarter of 2010.
During the fourth quarter of 2011 we began a facility consolidation program that resulted in a fourth quarter charge of $38.4 million.
This charge is higher than our initial estimate due to our ability to accelerate consolidation activities into the fourth quarter.
Of this total $26.3 million related to employee costs and the remaining $12.1 million was associated with the write-down of fixed assets and the relocation of equipment.
The program is expected to be completed by early 2013 and the total estimated cost is expected to be approximately $83 million including employee-related costs of about $28 million most of which were included in the fourth quarter as I mentioned.
The remaining $55 million of costs represent charges associated with the write-down of fixed assets lease termination costs accelerated depreciation and equipment move costs.
Cash payments related to the facility consolidation program are expected to total nearly $60 million of which $3.1 million was paid in 2011.
Future savings associated with this program are expected to be approximately $40 million per year.
A portion of these annualized savings will be recognized during 2012 but we expect increased costs associated with the transition of production to new facilities to offset these savings.
The full benefit of the savings is expected to be achieved each year beginning in 2013.
Turning to guidance.
We're entering 2012 with some favorable financial momentum.
We repurchased 5 million shares of stock in 2011 added earnings from 3 acquisitions and we plan to refinance a bond with lower-rate commercial paper in the second quarter of 2012.
By the end of 2012 we should start to realize some of the benefits of the facilities' closures.
But this positive momentum is offset by volume concerns higher pension expense a weakening European economic outlook and the expected weaker real.
The net result is our 2012 adjusted earnings per share guidance of $2.05 to $2.20 which excludes the impact of any of the facility consolidation or other special charges.
For the first quarter we expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $0.43 to $0.49.
Where we will fall in that range will depend on the sales volume levels and the start-up of production moved from closed plants.
Our first quarter is generally one of the slowest volume quarters of the year while the second and third quarters are seasonally stronger.
Our first quarter guidance assumes that soft demand conditions continue but we expect that volumes will increase modestly during the year.
As Henry explained some of the capacity consolidation efforts underway will result in deliberate volume reductions offsetting the impact of our volume growth in high barrier sales.
With respect to raw material costs our first quarter guidance incorporates the impact of the recent $0.11 polyethylene cost increases announced in the market and our total year guidance assumes that any other changes in raw material costs will be passed along to customers which in reality will depend on the timing of the raw material increases.
With regard to selling general and administrative expenses in 2012 we will record an increase in pension expense of about $15 million and we will make a pension contribution of $30 million.
With this contribution we maintain pension funded status above 90% for 2012.
In October of 2011 we issued a $400 million 10-year bond in advance of our upcoming bond maturity in 2012.
The proceeds of that bond issuance were used to reduce our commercial paper balance outstanding.
We expect to refinance our $300 million bond that matures in April 2012 using commercial paper which will lower our interest cost on that debt from about 4.9% to less than 1%.
Commercial paper can also be readily repaid which will allow us to reduce our outstanding debt during 2012.
At year-end 2011 our ratio of net debt to adjusted earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortization was 2.3x compared to 1.9x at the end of 2010.
Debt increased in connection with approximately $240 million we invested in 3 acquisitions in 2011 which represent high-value strategic moves for Bemis: the repurchase of the outstanding shares of our Dixie Toga subsidiary the acquisition of Mayor Packaging in China and the acquisition of Shield Pack.
Over time we are managing the balance sheet to a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of about 2x which is about where we expect to be by the end of 2012.
We have remaining board authorization to repurchase up to 4.5 million shares of common stock which we will do opportunistically in conjunction with our other priorities for capital spending.
In 2012 after paying our dividend and funding capital expenditures our priority is debt reduction.
The tax rate we have used for our 2012 guidance is consistent with our 2011 rate of 36.2%.
Depreciation and amortization is expected to be close to $230 million in 2012 with capital expenditures at approximately $175 million.
Cash flow from operations for the total year 2011 was $416.6 million a 13.2% increase from 2010.
Cash flow from operations for 2012 is expected to be approximately $350 million which incorporates an estimated $35 million for the facility consolidation program.
With our improved expense structure and the completion of our facility consolidation program we expect cash flow from operations to continue to grow and exceed $500 million by 2014.
Our disciplined use of capital will also help drive improvement in our return on capital and shareholder value over the long term.
Now operator we'll be pleased to take any questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Al Kabili with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just I guess on the consolidation activity.
It sounds like you ramped this up a decent amount versus what you discussed on the third quarter call and maybe you can just talk about some of the factors there one.
And two what is that in terms of capacity? I know you're adding some in areas where it's growing.
But what does that mean to your footprint in terms of capacity in terms of what you're reducing on this footprint? Well first of all we did substantially move forward and accelerate the closing of these facilities.
As we looked through spec consolidations where best to move things we could see a clear path towards eliminating some additional costs associated with running these facilities.
Our capacity in the areas that we want to grow namely those around our high barrier packaging and those which provide convenience features for our customers is in good shape.
We have -- this will add -- we will have good capacity for those.
We are taking down capacity in those more competitive areas where it's really just a converting operation.
And we'll be in good shape in our higher barrier resin-type business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a follow-up to Scott.
Just on the outlook.
So we've got flat volumes.
We've got some pension headwinds.
Shares are down.
How -- can you just help us bridge what's driving the EPS growth with the flat volumes and the resin headwind in the first quarter? Is it all on the cost savings and the acquisitions that you've recently done? Well little of it is the cost savings from the facilities consolidation program because that really won't start kicking in until later in 2012 and really get the full benefits in 2013.
But the improvement is really relating to pricing actions we've taken in lower-margin business and an improved price mix profile for our flexible packaging business.
We'll take our next question from Philip Ng with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The guidance you guys -- I mean the color you guys provided on volumes were helpful.
I mean I guess the first half it makes sense things are down a bit.
But what's really driving the incremental improvement over the course of the year? Because if you're down probably mid-single digits and being flat for the year what's driving the growth in the back half? Are you asking about volume growth in the back half? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes on the volume growth.
I mean I'm assuming Q4 volumes were down roughly mid-single digits for flexible and it sounds like in the first half things are still going to be a little soft.
If you're guiding flat volumes for the full year that would imply that things are improving in the back half.
I just want to get some color on that.
No we have strong demand growth for our acquisition in China.
We are started investing in that so we expect to see some volume growth coming from that acquisition that we made earlier in 2011.
On the other end we do have good new product growth.
I tried to point that out in some of our rigid sheet lines such things as creamers which we weren't in before pudding cups Jell-O cups.
All those areas where we're investing in our higher barrier areas are showing excellent growth.
We also got good growth in our core meat and cheese programs.
We're coming out with new products and new convenience features for our customers.
So we do have good growth in those regions then the regions of China.
We have some excellent growth in the U.S.
in the high barrier area.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then can you give me some color on how demand is tracking? What’s your outlook for Lat Am? I know that was a market that you flagged.
Part of that was related to the current [indiscernible] come in a bit.
I just wanted to get some thoughts on the market in particular.
We still expect to have good growth in Latin America.
It isn't what it has been in the past.
The growth of Brazil for instance has flattened somewhat.
It used to be pretty at high single digits and now it's down in the low to mid-digits.
So it'll be down a little bit from where it has been in the past but we still expect to see growth in that area.
And we have been investing in again as the middle-class grows and more products want to come to market with the same kind of convenience and food safety and barrier properties and extended shelf life that we have technology -- we have transferred substantial technology over the last couple of years into Brazil to meet that demand.
So we expect to have good solid growth in the region -- in the areas that we want to grow our business.
Philip I'd also just add that good solid growth is in real and we expect a weakening real over time.
So the improvement in growth in Dixie Toga will be a little bit masked by currency.
We'll take our next question from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
It's actually Benjamin Wong filling in for George.
He was on another call.
First question is on guidance.
For the first quarter it looks like you're largely guiding in line with current street estimates but the full year guidance appears a bit below.
Realizing these are bottoms of forecasts and you don’t manage the business according to Street expectations what considerations make you potentially more cautious on 2012? Well you're right.
We can't comment on what the forecasts were for 2012.
What we can say is we feel good about the business and specifically the expense structure and the plant footprint that we are working to put in place.
The real concern that we have is just overall volumes.
And as we look at what our customers and other companies are saying we just -- we haven't baked in a lot of confidence in what the volume outlook may look like as we get into 2012.
Okay.
The second question is around resin.
Did you get any benefit from resin in the fourth quarter? And are you expecting any benefit for the first quarter? And I guess any update on the specialty resin side would be helpful.
I think you mentioned that your guidance includes polyethylene commodity increases but anything you could comment on the specialty side would be helpful.
In the fourth quarter we did get some benefit on drop in pricing on polyethylene resins.
And that would've occurred really in our polyethylene division where the time lag from when the resin goes in place to when it is actually passed on to the consumer mostly because it is a very straightforward business of making film and then printing it and selling it.
It doesn't have the work in process and the complications of some of our higher barrier operations.
So those resins flow through better.
So we got a little bit of a bump a little -- more than we expected in the fourth quarter in that small segment of our business in that specific segment of our business.
We know -- do know that there are announced price increases.
We will start to feel some of those effects I think late first quarter.
We could have a little bit of carryover of the reduction in polyethylene prices into the first part but I think that's going to kind of neutralize itself.
As far as long-term specialty resins we have in our guidance here for the full year that they will be relatively flat.
My only comment I can make to you is we follow benzene prices and a lot of benzene -- cost to benzene drives a lot of those specialty resins.
And it has some upward momentum so I don't know how that's all going to play out.
We'll take our next question from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions for you.
First if I could -- I want to follow up on a previous question because this is maybe what we're trying to all get at.
You're walking away from some business but yet Henry when you spoke earlier I think to Phil's question you talked about a lot of terrific areas in higher barrier where you're seeing growth.
And I guess what I want to try to balance is -- and I recognize this is challenging to do but if embedded into a full year of flat volume assumption are you walking away from 3% volume and you're thinking the other businesses are growing 3 or -- how would we think about that balance? That's what we're trying to get at.
Well I think overall if you want to just take some of things -- the overall -- all the markets we feel are going to be volume challenged for the year overall.
We're not walking away from substantial amounts of business.
It's small segmented parts of business that just don't fit our long-term strategy.
It's not a great big number that we’re trying to overcome with some high barrier growth that's going to occur later in the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question I had was I think earlier you guys commented that you're kind of in the middle innings of one of your initiatives with Alcan.
Part of that acquisition was to improve pricing a few hundred basis points -- or to improve margins a few hundred basis points via pricing.
It sounds like the actions here on restructuring are more addressing the fixed cost base and the manufacturing footprint.
Is everything on track with the pricing side of the story as well? That -- I just want to make sure as we're talking about the opportunity I think you guys called out 40-or-so million of op income or something in the neighborhood of $0.34 that it will help on the earnings basis that these 2 are mutually exclusive events.
Or have they kind of been combined here? First off on pricing we still expect to see and we will see and I think we are as we renew some of these contracts.
And especially your opportunity on pricing is really related to ruling out new products and innovations and that's really what Bemis is good at.
So as each one of these new product come up they help to drive that margin improvement that we have overall in our business.
What happened and I don't think that many people can really see how well we've done with this because the raw material increases in the first half of 2011 were so great and so large that they took so much of that away from us.
So I think we still have a goal and we still will make where we increase those margins to the Bemis levels of pre-Alcan.
We'll go next to Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> It's Matt Wooten sitting in for Ghansham today.
Within flexible packaging do you attribute any of the volume decline to inventory destocking or any of it to market share loss? Or is it just end customer demand remains weak? I don't think there is anything in there that relates to market share lossing other than in the areas where we felt it was necessary to make some pricing decisions.
I really can't say if it's a destocking or if it's just over -- less demand in the retail area.
But it is not loss of market share other than in areas where we have decided to take pricing.
We'll go next to Usha Guntupalli with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you comment on your 2012 EPS impact from recent acquisitions that you're factoring into your guidance? We have not -- we are not breaking out guidance on Shield Pack and Mayor Packaging acquisitions.
They will be modestly helpful to the overall earnings that we expect to generate in 2012.
But we're just not going to break out earnings by acquisition going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay helpful.
And a quick follow-up.
Could you also comment on your outlook for 2012 price cost differential? You talked about your cost estimates for resin prices but how do we think about the price cost differential based on the timing of contracts? You're talking about as you look at planning sales growth from year-over-year and how much is price? Or whether or not we can pass along cost changes into our prices? Research Division</strong> Yes passing along cost changes into price in 2012.
Well we expect that if raw material prices remain less volatile than they were last year we expect that we're going to be able to pass through price increases during the course of the year to our customers.
And that's the assumption that we've baked into our guidance for the year.
What happened last year as Henry mentioned is prices spiked quickly and we were not able to us along the prices realtime to customers until later in the year.
But again we're hoping for a moderated raw material price environment for 2012 that we'll be able to pass through to customers.
We'll go next Mike Hamilton with RBC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can give any perspective on whether you're getting any better visibility in customer inventory levels in emerging markets.
Are you getting a better picture on what's going on from a destocking and stocking standpoint? I don't think we have any real accurate information to give you on that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you see some hope that you're going to be able to get better visibility in the channel over time? I think it stands to reason that we should get better visibility as the retail and distribution systems evolve and mature in places like Asia where there's not as good of as -- for example they don't have a scanner data and check-out data the way we would have here in the U.S.
So we would hope so but I think we're not expecting that anytime soon.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> How about in Brazil? In Brazil we've got better -- we got a better lens into going on but it's Brazil and Argentina.
And in Brazil it's both domestic demand but also export from Brazil into other South American countries.
And so it's a little obfuscated and again we don't have as good a beat on it as we might in the U.S.
We'll take our next question from Tom Mullarkey with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> My question is can you remind us what the percent of sales mix is in Brazil and Latin America that you get from higher margin high-barrier products as compared to what you typically find in the United States? And how do you see that mix shift changing over the next few years? Sure.
I'll take that one.
In Brazil we actually get a large portion of our business in the dairy and liquid and confectionery and snacks cookie-cracker market.
There's a lot of yogurt sales there and we are a big provider to that market and ice cream packages things like that.
So there are some refrigerated foods but it's really not the meat and cheese business that we have here in the U.S.
When we look at our North American business roughly 25% to 30% of our sales in North America are into meat and cheese markets and then an additional say 10% to 12% in dairy and liquids.
And those are refrigerated products that are high barrier higher-margin good business for us that we invest in heavily.
On the Brazil side those are still small.
The meat and cheese is less than 10% of their total sales.
And while dairy and liquids is important to them there's still opportunity for that to grow in the future.
So as we move forward as Henry said we're making investments in moving some of our high-barrier technology down to Brazil in order to ensure that we have the right capacity to match those volumes as they continue to grow over the next couple of years.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take a follow-up question from Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> We were just wondering if the increased CapEx in 2012 I think it's $40 million or so is that equally split between China Brazil and North America? No it's not equally split.
What we're doing is investing in additional capacity to fuel will our high-barrier business in developed regions like the U.S.
And in China with this new acquisition the Mayor Packaging we're really just building capacity because our business there is growing so nicely.
In Brazil yes it is investment in the higher end higher-barrier capacity.
And we'll take another follow-up from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
It's Ben again.
Scott do you have the pension expense in 2011? In 2011? Pension expense in 2011 is -- I don't have the total global balance but it's somewhere in the $35 million range.
Okay.
Great.
And then you gave the cash outlay for restructuring.
I think you said $60 million overall.
You gave the 2011 and 2012 number.
Can we assume the balance of that which is like $20 million that would go out in 2013? That's right.
Yes that's the plan right now.
Okay.
And then final question is it seems like the product strategy you're favoring is more value add higher-margin products which presumably use more specialty resins.
Does anything need to be done differently with the way your contracts are set up now to pass through specialty resin costs? No no not anything that would be specific the specialty resin costs.
I think it's just something for overall all of our pricing agreements.
We need to try to find ways to reduce the time lag involved in passing those on and that's consistent across all of our pricing agreements.
We'll go next to Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you give us a quick update on FreshCase where you are with that? I know you had approval but I think it's been in customer testing.
Is there any anticipation for that in 2012 to be -- we can start seeing it on shelves in a major way or… I think you're going to seeing it on shelves in the second half of the year.
Not in a major way but you're going to start seeing it on shelves.
In fact it is out there with one product application now.
And I think we've got a couple that are going to start up in midsummer.
So you'll see it out on the shelves but not in a big way yet.
We'll take our next question from Albert Kabili with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Henry I was wondering if you could elaborate a bit more on the new commercial product introductions in 2012.
How much extra sales or volume do these products add as well? They all start out pretty slow and they gradually grow.
And the ones that we -- I really can't talk about the ones that are in our customers' plans right now that we're working with them.
But the ones that are out there an example of that would be the ketchup package we have the Dip and Squeeze with Heinz.
It has been very successful for us and now it's entering the retail area.
We brought out new products that get into creamers that are really expanding.
Our rigid applications that get into like cups for coffee other ways to display coffee are growing.
I really can't put a number on every year what exactly that would be for you but it is substantial.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a follow-up is just as the cash flow from ops ramps up to that $500 million by 2014 any sense of sort of the balance of the incremental cash flow which way that would go in terms of share repurchases versus increasing the dividends? Sure.
Our philosophy and discipline around application and cash flow really hasn't changed.
Number one we're going to continue to fund an increasing dividend.
Two we will continue to fund higher-return internal organic growth initiatives.
Three acquisitions.
And then four and five is really just striking a balance between debt and equity and we're managing towards about a 2x debt-to-equity ratio over time.
Debt to EBITDA.
Excuse me debt to EBITDA over time.
And so I think we'll look at opportunistic share repurchase opportunities at a minimum to repurchase dilution from incentive compensation and then beyond that as our balance sheet and our leverage and the market price for our stock permit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess as a follow-up to that Scott if I heard it right you purchased 5 million shares in the fourth quarter? No no.
No in 2011.
In all of 2011.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
Okay.
Okay got it.
And then a follow-up on the M&amp;A front what's the pipeline looking like in terms of bolt-on acquisitions? Sure.
There's a lot of deal activity now and really generally in packaging.
There is relatively less opportunity for high-quality value-added barrier film technology which is what we're really focused on.
And so we're going to be fairly disciplined about acquisitions.
I think we'll err on the side of smaller-sized deals not larger-sized deals.
We're pleased with the 3 that we completed in 2011.
But beyond that we really can't predict what we're going to be doing on the acquisitions front.
We'll take our next question from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Actually I was on earlier and couldn't get the question in.
But I want you to clear up something that maybe others are pretty clear on and that is you mentioned the $100 million in savings you expect from the facilities consolidation that you started in the fourth quarter.
And then I know you mentioned the $0.24 or $40 million in savings.
And I just -- is that $100 million sort of a cumulative amount of savings over a number of years? Or how do you reconcile those 2? It is.
That's really $100 million over the next couple of years.
But the way to think about it is that $40 million run rate that we mentioned.
Got you.
So it would be something a lot less than that because of the implementation this year and then $40 million in ‘13 and then by -- certainly by '15 at some point you will have achieved the $100 million? That's exactly right.
Okay.
Okay.
You mentioned in Europe you had a greater than 20% volume decline because of mix changes that you all chose.
And of course you still saw some benefit with EBIT rising.
Could you just give us an idea on 2 levels: what kind of products or markets are you leaving and therefore what are you more or less emphasizing? And I guess it's the heavier barrier film world but could you be a little more specific about what you're doing differently in Europe than you were before? In Europe we had some pieces of business that were low barrier type business just rigid monolayer business where you really didn't add any value with any barrier technology.
And those were very very competitive pieces of business and we decided that the best thing to do there is just let someone else service that business.
And we have no further questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions].
And we have no further questions from the phone audience at this time.
Great.
Well thank you very much for joining us today.
And we look forward to seeing you hopefully at a conference over the next several months.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We'd like to thank you all for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's Bemis First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President and Treasurer for Bemis Company Ms.
Melanie Miller.
Ms.
Miller please go ahead.
Thank you.
Welcome to our First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Today is April 26 2012.
After today's call a replay will be available on our website www.bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are Bemis Company's President and CEO Henry Theisen; and our Vice President and CFO Scott Ullem.
Today Henry will begin with comments on the performance of the business followed by Scott with comments on the detailed financial results.
After our comments we will answer any questions you have.
[Operator Instructions] Before we begin I'd like to remind everyone that statements regarding future performance of the company made in this teleconference are forward-looking and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors including currency fluctuations changes in raw material costs and availability industry competition unexpected consumer buying trends changes in customer order patterns our ability to pass along increased costs in our selling prices unexpected costs related to our facility consolidation program changes in government regulatory requirements interest rate fluctuations and regional economic conditions.
A more complete list of risk factors is included in our regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011.
Now I'll turn the call over to Henry Theisen.
Good morning.
My comments today will address the current market environment what we expect for the rest of this year and our progress on initiatives to improve profitability and return on invested capital.
With respect to the current market environment the generally weak levels of demand that we experienced during the second half of 2011 has continued into 2012 as expected.
There are pockets of growth in certain product areas but overall demand is reflecting careful buying at grocery stores and some trading down by customers to less expensive options that may not use flexible packaging.
That said the growth initiatives of our customers include promotions as well as new product extensions to be launched in a flexible format.
We're also starting to see new business ramp up which should help to boost volumes during the second half of the year.
During the first quarter our suppliers announced a number of raw material cost increases.
None of these increases is of the magnitude that we saw during the first half of 2011.
But they will put modest pressure on operating margins in the second and third quarters until all selling prices can be adjusted.
So as we look forward to the rest of the year we expect raw material cost increases to subside and level out for a while and we expect customer demand to increase as we move into the second half of 2012.
We have made progress in modifying the price agreements with some customers and we'll continue this initiative as contracts come up for renewal.
These changes will shorten the time that takes to adjust selling prices when raw materials cost change reducing the impact of raw material cost changes on our operating performance and cash flows.
We continued to implement specific pricing actions to address poor profitability on some products and we are willing to walk away from business if necessary.
We have made progress with our facility consolidation program and expect to complete the closure of 2 of our North American facilities during the second quarter.
Our teams are doing a great job of transferring production to new facilities while keeping an eye on costs.
At the same time we are expanding our footprint in China to meet the growing demand from that region.
This capital investment will be ramping up commercial production during the second half of this year.
In Latin America we are expanding our capabilities in Brazil to deliver our high barrier technology to our Latin American customers.
This market continues to be challenged with slowing economic growth and a relatively strong currency.
We have a lot of opportunities for expansion in that region of the world and our business teams are focused on leveraging our global scale to create a competitive advantage and drive growth.
We have been closely managing cost in our European operations as we continued to experience sluggish unit sales volumes in the face of a weak European economy.
We expect this economic environment to continue through the rest of the year.
We are currently working out a number of innovative new products that we are gaining attention from our customers.
In addition to our current sales in the dairy segment we are finding new applications for our rigid sheet film in other liquid products including pudding yogurt and baby food.
Customers are excited about our recyclable solution that removes environmentally unfriendly polyvinylidene chloride materials from packaging.
In another example our Peel Reseal technology is providing customers with a cost beneficial solution that uses a combination of our easy peel and our pressure sensitive adhesive technologies to provide easy open and reclosable features.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Scott to review the financial performance for the quarter.
Thanks Henry.
Good morning everyone.
This quarter we recorded adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.49 at the top of our guidance range and $0.02 better than the first quarter of 2011.
The primary driver for this improvement was a better ratio of selling prices to raw material costs in 2012.
In late 2010 and early 2011 we were experiencing dramatic increases in raw material costs that negatively impacted our price-to-cost ratio through the first 3 quarters of 2011.
While we have adjusted our selling prices to reflect higher raw material prices our flexible packaging volumes have tracked the generally weak volumes of our customers.
This trend began in the second half of 2011 and we expect it to continue through the first half of 2012.
Unit sales volumes were lower in total but they were not lower across the board.
I'll give you some examples and then provide some views about what is driving these results.
Compared to the first quarter of 2011 volumes were up in packaging applications for meat dairy products coffee dry foods condiments stick packs and overwrap for packaged beverages.
Volumes were lower in other application categories including cheese bakery confectionery and snacks quick preparation meals pet food health and hygiene products and pharmaceuticals.
You can take away a few themes from this quarter's end market volumes.
First consumers have been willing to trade down in product quality to lower-priced products for example in frozen pizza.
Along the same lines consumers have exhibited careful buying patterns including shifting away from more expensive prepared meal packaging formats.
We have also seen examples of consumers purchasing lower-priced products that do not come in flexible packaging for example dry pasta.
It's also clear that food price increases on the grocery store shelf are constraining consumer demand but some of our customers expect the sticker shock to abate as consumers get used to higher price points.
Volumes in our flexible packaging business will be an important factor in our ability to continue to grow earnings.
And our facilities consolidation program combined with our world-class manufacturing initiatives should deliver positive momentum in waste management and productivity.
These benefits are expected to be realized next year.
Shifting to our pressure sensitive material segment.
Volumes in total were about the same as last year's first quarter and financial results were roughly consistent with last year's first quarter.
Consolidated selling general and administrative expenses increased by $3 million compared to the first quarter of 2011 reflecting increased pension costs.
Research and development expenses increased $3.3 million over the first quarter of 2011 and still remain below 1% of net sales.
Our investments in R&amp;D reflect our commitment to drive innovative packaging and adhesive technologies that offer valuable solutions to customers.
Looking at adjusted operating profits of the flexible packaging business segment the 10.2% margin was a 30% basis point improvement from the first quarter of 2011 and a 40 basis point improvement from the fourth quarter.
This improvement also reflects the benefits of a closer alignment between the prices we charge for our products and the costs we incur to purchase raw materials.
In the pressure sensitive materials business segment operating margins were relatively consistent with the first quarter of 2011 at about 6.7%.
This is 190 basis points better than the fourth quarter of 2011 reflecting nice results in our technical products business which is one of our focus areas for profitable growth in our pressure sensitive material segment.
Summarizing the financial impact of our facilities consolidation we recorded $8.3 million of related expenses during the first quarter which was divided between $1.2 million for employee costs and $7.1 million of costs associated with writing down fixed assets.
We expect the total remaining expenses for the facilities consolidation program to be approximately $37 million most of which will be expensed during 2012.
Keep in mind that some of these facilities consolidation expenses are noncash charges and others require the use of cash.
There are also timing differences for example with severance expenses between when we booked charges and when we pay out cash.
Cash paid for facilities consolidation costs during the first quarter totaled $8 million.
This cash outlay represented employees' severance and other costs for expenses incurred in the fourth quarter of 2011 as well as the first quarter of 2012.
We expect to use another $24 million in cash during 2012 and about $17 million in cash in 2013.
Our effective tax rate was 35.3% for the first quarter.
This was an aberration and we expect our effective tax rate for the full year to be approximately 36% consistent with recent years.
The lower tax rate did not affect operating profit net income or cash taxes.
Cash provided by operating activities totaled $48.7 million for first quarter.
Working capital increased by about $62 million reflecting the normal build of inventory as we enter our seasonally strong second quarter as well as the increase in accounts receivables since the balance reflects stronger net sales for the month of March compared to the month of December.
Looking ahead our guidance for the second quarter is $0.51 to $0.57 in earnings per share.
We expect the first quarters raw material cost increases to impact the second quarter but no additional increases have been reflected in our full year guidance which we are maintaining at $2.05 to $2.20 per share.
Where we end up in that range will be driven largely by volumes in our flexible packaging business our full year guidance assumes strengthening volumes in the second half of the year versus volumes we have seen so far this year but I want to make an important qualifier.
If volumes do not improve meaningfully earnings may be on the low end of our 2012 EPS guidance.
On April 2 we used commercial paper to repay $300 million of bonds that matured.
So interest expense is expected to come down by about $3 million per quarter as we reduce the rate from the commercial paper rate of about 40 basis points.
We also intend to use excess cash generated in 2012 to reduce outstanding commercial paper in line with our target net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of approximately 2x.
We continue to expect capital expenditures for 2012 to be in the $175 million range and cash flow from operations to exceed $350 million.
Now we will open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Adam Josephson of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Scott you said you expect volume in flexible lines to strengthen in the second half but can you be more specific as to what you're assuming regarding your year-over-year volume trends for the balance of the year? Well we're simply expecting based upon signals that we've seen and heard from our customers that volumes in flexible packaging are going to strengthen in the second half of 2012.
And there are a lot of data points and anecdotal influences that lead us to believe that we feel pretty confident that there's going to be some pick up in the second half.
What we don't know is whether that's a moderate pick up or a more significant pick up in volumes.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one other volume-related question.
What was volume in Brazil in the quarter? We don't talk about a country so we won't talk about Brazil by itself but we look at volumes around the world and in Latin America so including -- from Mexico down to Brazil including our Argentina business and in that area volume was still down compared to first quarter of 2011 but 4% to 5% so not as -- not down as strongly as it has been as we look at the second half of 2011.
Up next from Barclays we'll go to Scott Gaffner.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the end consumer actually trading down to some less expensive options that maybe don't incorporate flexible packaging I think you mentioned pasta.
Is there anything that you could do to innovate to actually go into those categories? Or is it simply product categories or areas that you don't -- you wouldn't -- you would prefer not to go in over the long term? Most of the -- the vast majority of that or almost all of them are like corrugated like you would see for a corrugated box.
When you're moving into a dry product it doesn't require any barrier anything like that.
But we think that's a temporary thing that's going on.
People are going to want to go back and my -- I've been here for 37 years people want -- because they want the barrier packaging they want the innovative things.
Staying in a box to have dry pasta is not where people are going to stay.
And Scott it's also true that if you look around the world there are other places where certain categories that are in -- sold in jars or in boxes in the U.S.
are sold in flexible in other parts of the world for instance pasta sauces and things like that.
But one of the obstacles to making huge changes in those categories is the capital that our customers have installed where they have got a process fully depreciated lines that is focused on filling jars or using folding cartons and for them to switch in a big way to flexible packaging would be a big capital investment.
So we do look at innovating those areas when they're launching new products and perhaps their new brands or new flavors might be included in flexible packaging but to do it in a big way it would be a big capital investment by our customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- you mentioned the weak consumer demand trends based off the soft economic conditions but how much of the weak environment do you think is more price related inflation for the end consumer versus the actual weakness in the economy? I think the best way to answer your question is what our customers tell us.
And our customers are concerned about food inflation the price of all the grains and the base commodities that increased the first half of the 2011 and now they find themselves having to push those through so they are concerned about the price of food food inflation caused by those commodity increases.
And they also talk about the increase in gas.
When gas gets to $4 and people have to pay more to get back and forth to work it just takes some buying power out of the marketplace and almost all of our customers talk about concerns based on food volumes which is really the pricing of the commodities and what's going on to gas pump.
We'll go next to Usha Guntupalli of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you comment on your outlook for price cost spread for resin in 2012 full year with a specific focus on specialty resin costs? Well specialty resin costs went up in the first quarter of the year and we expect that to be flat.
We really expect all of our -- really raw material costs had increases in the first quarter and we expect those to be flat through the rest of the year.
So as we go through the second quarter and into the third quarter they should come in line with what we would typically expect between the price that we sell and what we pay for our raw materials.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a quick follow-up there.
So you did mention your target of modifying customer pricing agreements.
So could you give us more color on what percentage of your contracts you're targeting by year end 2012? And also by how much do you intend to reduce lag in pricing? Well we expect to have close to 100% of our contracts by the end of 2012.
It should come up and it should be renegotiated.
So we expect this phenomena that we inherited from Alcan to be done with by the end of the year.
And we're shooting to get anything from 6 months down to 3 months or if we can to 30 days depending upon the individual negotiation.
But we do recognize that 6 months is not something that we can maintain.
Moving next to Chip Dillon of Vertical Research Partners.
I might have missed this but it looks like the 1.5% decrease in sales and the -- that you saw in the first quarter was all pretty much organic given that the impact of the -- ex currency I should say given that the impact of acquisitions was offset by currency.
That being the case can you give us a little more color as to how much of that decline was tied to volume and how much was tied to price? It's really volume and there's a little bit of price through various different market categories that we serve but really volume has been the key headwind that we've faced in the top line.
Got you.
And maybe I misunderstood but I think earlier you mentioned that in the Latin America areas I guess that's the Alcan businesses primarily that the volumes were actually down more than the overall amount.
And could you just a correct that and b let us know sort of what you think is right driving that since we -- I would tend to think that you would have more growth in the emerging areas.
If you take a look at Latin America we do have some excellent growth in our flexible packaging business.
We have excellent growth in the areas where technology and barrier are the main core.
Where we are receiving some of the pressure is if you remember in Latin America we picked up a folding carton and a paper labels business in the acquisition and that is a very competitive environment and we are seeing pressure with the strong REI where people can import paper labels and some corrugated folding boxes.
That's the volume loss.
We actually have gains in the areas of our flexible packaging in the areas that we want to operate in.
And actually just to clarify what you had said in Latin America we're mostly legacy Bemis as we acquired some plants from Alcan there but most of that is legacy Bemis business and volume was down 4% to 5%.
However if you exclude currency price and mix improvements more than offset that so that we had increased sales in the region of low single digits compared to the first quarter of last year.
We'll go next to Baird's Ghansham Panjabi.
Research Division</strong> Your volumes in flexible packaging have been a pretty good proxy for your customers' volumes.
Historically this would probably imply that the operating rates of your customer level are pretty low too.
Historically that sort of coincided with higher promotional activity as your customers have started to sort of stimulate volume growth get consumers back.
Are you seeing any signs of that yet or is it still too early? I think it's still too early.
Our customers are really -- what you're really seeing now is it's kind of worked in the past.
Our customers are talking about more innovation how can they do things how they can add something that the consumer is going to want to take so we're seeing more of an uptick in how can we innovate and how can we drive new packaging and bring products that our customers' customers will want but we haven't seen that as we sit here today in increased volume yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching to Latin America and obviously Brazil is the biggest market down there it's been probably a while since volumes have come under pressure there and it seems that your customers this is probably something relatively new for them.
Are you seeing any change in behavior there in Latin America? I was just in Latin America last week and our management team is an excellent management team.
They recognize what's going on.
They continue to drive for value add into the product areas and the markets that we want to do and they're adapting to the lower volumes and the lower market but like I said before most of it is volume ups in the part of the business that doesn't generate our future.
It's more -- those losses are in the paper labels folding carton areas like that.
We hear next from Mike Hamilton of RBC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can give us a little bit of detail in terms of progression in the Asian markets.
Well our presence in the Asian markets is very small as part of the company.
We were very active in the medical device arena in the Asia-Pacific region.
We picked up a small plant in New Zealand in the fresh meat area which excites us for that part of the world.
And last September or August we made an acquisition of a company that is operating in more of the higher end part of the China operations with retort packaging standup pouches things that we consider more of the value add part of it.
We're expanding those facilities the facility that we bought in the business was fully -- was full.
We're putting in additional equipment and we have a good growth plan for that area but it is still a smaller part of our business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Going back to overall corporate.
Could you give a picture of what pricing was in the quarter? For? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Year-over-year.
Year-over-year pricing well volume was down mid-single digits and that was offset by pricing to get -- if you take out the currency and offset it with acquisitions essentially what you're left with is the volume and pricing mix wasn't really as a big deal.
So if we had total sales down 1.5% ex those items pricing was up but not enough to offset the volume decline.
So volume was down about mid single-digits.
From Bank of America Merrill Lynch we'll go to George Staphos.
It's Benjamin Wong for George.
Can you provide an early read on what you've seen so far in April? I think you should start to see some flexible volume pick up as you enter the grilling in the summer season but an update would be helpful.
Good morning Benjamin it's Scott.
We've seen a little bit of seasonal uptick as we always do going from first quarter to second quarter but volumes are still muted and below where we'd like to see them.
Okay.
And then I just want to dig deeper into the assumption of volume growth in the second half.
I mean what do you think the biggest risk is to that? I mean I think new product commercialization is probably pretty stable and the biggest risk is still to the consumer but I wanted to check that with you.
I think the biggest risk is still to the consumer around the environment the economic environment that we're in.
We'll hear next from Chris Manuel of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
First has to do with -- Scott if we can go back and talk a little bit about the cadence of the cost savings.
I think earlier in your release I read $40 million annualized in '13.
But it sounds like you've got I think from prepared comments you mentioned you've got a chunk of personnel already out here in 1Q 2Q.
So could you maybe kind of give us a sense of that $40 million as an annualized full year number? Could we anticipate seeing any of that in '12 in the amount that we would see during fiscal '13 and any spillover that it might lead to '14 kind of think about that? Sure Chris.
There will be some benefits as we get later into the year 2012.
But the benefits are almost entirely offset by some short term inefficiencies of moving production from plants that we're closing to plants that we're expanding.
And so we're adding production to adjusting facilities.
So really we don't expect see any net cost benefits in 2012 and they'll show up in 2013.
Obviously there's not a hard line at December 31 and January 1 but that's the way to think about it for 2012.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second I just want to follow-up on some earlier questions regarding volumes by region.
So I think Melanie kind of clarified things that as a whole company you were down let's call it mid-single digits.
How would that have been different in Europe? And was it different in different pieces of Europe? Some folks are telling us that northern Europe tended to be stronger than southern Europe et cetera.
But if you could to the extent you can help compare contrast what you might have seen in South America Asia North America Europe with what the total company was.
I don't have a breakout of northern Europe versus southern Europe.
I don't have that much detail in what I look at at this level.
But volume in Europe was down double digit again from the year before.
Part of that reflects the fact that we did get out of some business second quarter of last year on purpose some low value add business to improved sales mix.
But otherwise volume was down again year-over-year as it was all of last year 2011.
In Asia it's really tiny for Bemis so -- and there's so much impact from the acquisition in August that really essentially almost doubled our sales in the Asian region that those trends are not very meaningful in the format that I have them.
[Operator Instructions] Adam Josephson of KeyBanc has another question.
Research Division</strong> What do you think normalized gross margins are for the company? I mean there's been quite a bit of volatility in your gross margin in recent years owing to the Alcan acquisition volatile resin prices volume fluctuations et cetera.
And I'm hoping to get a sense of what you think a sustainable level is as you renew the Alcan contracts.
Adam this quarter our adjusted gross margins are 17.7%.
We think that normalized they'll be higher than that I don't want to give a specific target number but as we do improve our pricing alignment between cost of raws and selling price of our products we'd like to see those gross margins tick up towards high teens and even on the 20% line.
Research Division</strong> And I know you don't want to give a number but whatever that number is when might you expect to get there? Well again it's tough to predict what raw material prices are going to do but in a stabilizing raw material environment we should see some improvements by the end of the year in 2012 on the gross margin line.
[Operator Instructions] We'll hear next from Albert Kabili of Crédit Suisse.
This is actually Ernie filling in for Al.
I just have a quick question how's the non contract business going? And was there any price cost headwind in 1Q or a potential catch up in the second quarter? Our non contract business we have the ability to increase prices on specific orders when they come in and we were very diligent in making those price adjustments.
We raised prices very early in 2011 and we raised them more than once.
And as that is a smaller part of our business we realized catch up in our raw material and our pricing sooner than we did in the contract business.
We'll go back to Scott Gaffner of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to talk about the competitive environment with volumes being a little bit weaker.
What's the competitive environment look like right now? In flexible packaging are you seeing anybody that's competing more on price or maybe you could just flush that out for us a little bit? The flexible packaging always has been a very competitive marketplace and it still is.
And we see that competitive pricing everyday where we have to win as we have to win with our products with the technology with materials science with new innovations and we will and we have in the past if pricing is not where we have to be and where we want to be we will walk away from that business.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And I think you mentioned that earlier in your comments that you'd walk away from a product that doesn't meet the pricing objectives.
Is there anything in particular that we should think about that isn't meeting the pricing objectives? No I don't think so.
I think we continually try to improve our product mix and we continue to improve what we do and we know we look at our capital and our CapEx and make sure that we only spend on projects that increase the margin and affect the bottom line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on the acquisition environment are you seeing anything that looks interesting at this point or is it pretty quiet? There's always a lot of deal flow in packaging and this year is no exception.
There have been a number of small transactions and we've really been looking at a lot of things more outside of the U.S.
than in the U.S.
and what we've been looking at is generally fairly small and less than $100 million size range.
But we're going to be really disciplined here as we think about external growth because we've got so many opportunities internally with the facilities consolidation program our world-class manufacturing focus on pricing.
The internal opportunities for us right now are so significant that that's really we're -- that's really what we're targeting here in 2012.
Not to say that we're not going to do acquisitions but what we're looking at is smaller in size and generally outside of the U.S.
And it appears we have no further phone questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to our speakers.
Thank you very much operator and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Have a great day.
And again that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you all for joining.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Bemis Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President and Treasurer for Bemis Company Ms.
Melanie Miller.
Ms.
Miller please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Welcome to our second quarter 2012 conference call.
Today is July 26 2012.
After today's call a replay will be available on our website at www.bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are Bemis Company's President and Chief Executive Officer Henry Theisen; and our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Scott Ullem.
Today Henry will begin with comments on the performance of the business followed by Scott with comments on the detailed financial results.
After our comments we will answer any questions you have.
[Operator Instructions] Before we begin I'd like to remind everyone that statements regarding future performance of the company made in this teleconference are forward-looking and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors including currency fluctuations changes in raw material costs and availability industry competition unexpected consumer buying trends changes in customer order patterns our ability to pass along increased costs in our selling prices unexpected costs related to our facility consolidation program the timing of plant closings changes in government regulatory requirements interest rate fluctuations and regional economic conditions.
A more complete list of risk factors is included in our regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011.
Now I'll turn the call over to Henry Theisen.
Good morning.
This morning we announced earnings of $0.54 per share in the middle of our guidance.
We are pleased to have delivered performance improvements in the face of a difficult operating environment.
At the same time we are revising our outlook for volume for the total year.
Based upon a commentary of our large customers back in April we had expected our volume levels to increase during the second half of this year.
We are now revising this expectation and believe volume for the second half of the year will be approximately the same as the first half.
Overall volume in 2012 is expected to decline by about 2% to 3% compared to the total year 2011.
As a result we expect to report earnings for the total year around the low end of our original guidance.
With volume levels expected to remain low for the remainder of 2012 our business teams are accelerating the commercialization and qualification of new business that is ramping up.
Let me give you some examples.
Commercialization of patented order scavenging films for the poultry market is solving a long-term issue for our meat customers.
Previously when a barrier package containing poultry was open the customer would be presented with an offensive odor.
This new patented film scavenges this odor so that the customer never experiences it.
Another example is our packaging for frozen sandwiches that are microwavable in the package.
The technology in our films allow the sandwich to be warmed in the microwave while maintaining the crispness of the bread.
In addition we recently developed a breakthrough medical device package for artificial joints.
For example knee replacements need to be packaged extensively to protect them before they are placed in a thermoformed container.
We have developed a polyester package with a polyurethane coating that protects the knee replacement eliminates the need for additional packaging and substantially reduces damage during distribution.
While economic conditions are negatively impacting volumes across all regions as consumers curb spending wherever they can our food packaging markets will be more stable than most and we will to continue to focus on new business opportunities and prudent cost management to position Bemis for earnings growth in the feature.
There are a number of additional factors impacting our performance and our revised guidance this quarter and I'd like to take some time to go through each of these factors with you.
These factors include the impact of raw material costs sales mix and currency.
First let's talk about raw material cost.
The resin costs headwinds that impacted results in 2011 have been relatively calm during the first half of 2012 and we expect modest raw material cost tailwinds during the second half of this year.
The costs of commodity raw materials such as polyethylene had increased during the first quarter of this year but began to soften again during the second quarter.
Overall we expect commodity resin costs to remain flat during the third quarter providing short-term benefits before selling prices are adjusted.
We expect modest commodity resin cost increases later in the year.
We are not seeing that same softness in the cost of our specialty raw materials.
Mix improvements in 2012 reflect the impact of new business commercialization and value-added product lines coupled with volume declines in less complex product lines.
Scott will get into the details of our volume numbers for the quarter but it is important to note that in about 1/2 of our flexible packaging application areas we have a technological advantage with unique film structures.
In these application areas we experienced modest growth in volume compared to last year second quarter.
In total volume in the second quarter was about 5.5% below volume levels of the second quarter 2011 as predicted with the decrease coming primarily from the lower value-added products resulting in improved sales mix.
The last factor is currency.
During the second quarter the average currency rate of the Brazilian reais weakened by almost 20% compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Our guidance assumes that the reais will remain constant for the rest of 2012 and as a result we have revised our guidance to $2 to $2.10.
We continue to take pricing actions to improve our margins and performance metrics in those parts of our business that do not give us an appropriate level of return.
We are executing our facility consolidation program aimed at improving the efficiency of our global manufacturing operations.
We have also identified 3 other manufacturing locations to be closed in France Mexico and Brazil.
With regard to our Pressure Sensitive Materials business segment we continue to actively manage our cost structure to match demand levels in North America and in Europe.
Despite of about 45% of this business being centered on the European markets we were able to deliver operating profit levels in the high-single-digit range during the second quarter.
This is about even with the second quarter of 2011 and the highest increase sequentially from the first quarter.
Going forward our focus will continue to be to match our cost structure with market demand and improve our sales mix.
Lastly I'd like to touch upon our capital investment plans for 2012.
We continue to be pleased with the performance and opportunities for increased sales from our newly acquired flexible packaging operation in China.
Our expansion of our package making capacity in China is well underway and represents a niche market that we are confident we will be able to fill.
We believe our expansion positions us to meet existing demand for these products and does not depend on future growth in the Chinese market.
Our Latin American investment in multilayer film capacity is on track for completion by the end of this year and we expect this to provide us with new sales opportunities for meat packaging applications that have historically been a small part of our Latin American mix.
We have lowered our total estimate of capital expenditures for 2012 by $25 million to approximately $150 million for the year.
This decrease reflects the fact that we are postponing investments in areas where we no longer need additional capacity.
In all we are making the necessary adjustments to capacity to maintain a sales mix that promotes improvement in profitability and growth going forward.
We are expanding in key growth areas and managing our cost structure to achieve our profitability objectives.
We expect to begin to benefit from the savings of facility consolidation program in 2013 and we will continue to look for new opportunities to expand our product reach to new applications innovate our existing product lines and improve our performance metrics in the future.
Now I'll turn the call over to Scott for his comments on the financials.
Thanks Henry.
Good morning everyone.
Adjusted earnings per share for the second quarter was $0.54 an increase of about 6% over last year's second quarter a 10% increase sequentially from the first quarter of this year and in the middle of our guidance range.
My comments this morning will cover the financial tables attached to today's press release and I'll provide additional color with respect to the drivers of this quarter's performance.
Starting with our Flexible Packaging segment and excluding the impact of currency and acquisitions net sales decreased about 1/2 of 1% reflecting a 5.5% decrease in volume partially offset by increases in price and mix.
Specifically volume increased modestly in several of our high value-added product areas such as packaging for meat and cheese dairy and liquids dry foods and medical and pharmaceutical applications.
In our other product areas volumes were generally down with the exception of over-wrap for bottled water which was up due to the hot weather conditions in North America.
We experienced volume declines in a number of product areas such as packaging for bakery confectionery and snack beverage pet care specialty food and health and hygiene applications.
Some of this volume decline was self-directed as we have chosen to strategically price products to meet our profit margin objectives.
Looking at net sales from another perspective trends varied considerably by geographic region.
For Flexible Packaging sales in North America which represents about 70% sales in the segment we experienced a modest decline in net sales as mid-single-digit volume declines overall were partially offset by price mix improvements.
In Latin America net sales excluding currency increased by about 10% principally driven by increasing prices reflecting higher raw material costs.
The weakening of the reais has significantly hurt our results as translated into U.S.
dollars.
In relation to total Bemis net sales the devaluation of the reais reduced reported revenues by over 3%.
European Flexible Packaging represent less than 2% of our total Flexible Packaging segment operating profit.
It's not a significant factor driving our results so I won't spend much time here other than to say that we have a strong medical device packaging business in Europe that is nicely profitable while our food packaging business continues to operate in a low growth low-margin weak demand environment.
Moving onto the Pressure Sensitive Materials business segment.
Unit volumes were down slightly in label products and decreased almost 5% each in graphic and technical products.
Results in this business segment continued to reflect the impact of its significant exposure to the European region.
Price and mix were neutral to net sales.
Consolidated gross margins improved to 17.8% in the second quarter of this year up from 17.4% in the second quarter 2011.
This reflected our improved alignment between the cost of raw materials and our selling prices to customers.
This improvement in our price cost ratio was partially offset by the negative impact of lower volume levels on fixed cost absorption.
We are executing our facility consolidation program on schedule and as planned.
In addition we expanded the program to include 3 locations outside the U.S.
and one additional location in the U.S.
With the U.S.
and now the non-U.S.
programs in progress we do not expect any further closings in the foreseeable future.
With these additional locations we increased the overall total program cost from $83 million to $141 million of which $96 million is expected to be cash payments up from the original cash estimate of $51 million.
During the second quarter specifically charges of $20 million were incurred and cash payments totaled $4.5 million.
You can see the program's complete financial timing and expenses -- expense details on Page 2 of our press release.
Previously we announced that our facility consolidation program was expected to deliver approximately $40 million annually beginning in 2013.
We now expect the program in total to generate approximately $50 million annualized which represents about a 2-year payback on the $96 million in cash we are spending.
Of the 9 total locations impacted 4 were already closed by the end of June and we plan to close the remaining locations by the end of the year.
Turning back to the income statement.
Selling general and administrative expenses in 2012 will continue to fluctuate reflecting the impact of changes related to the facility consolidation program the addition of acquired businesses and the adjustments of incentive compensation in response to business performance expectations.
We expect total year 2012 SG&amp;A to average 9.5% to 10% of net sales and current initiatives are expected to reduce SG&amp;A expenses in 2013.
Adjusted operating profit of Flexible Packaging business segment increased 60 basis points to 10.1% compared to 9.5% in the second quarter of 2011.
This improvement reflects the impact of an improved price cost ratio compared to the second quarter of 2011 when raw material costs had increased dramatically in advance of our selling price increases.
This improvement was partially offset by the impact of lower fixed cost absorption due to lower sales volumes in certain product areas.
In the Pressure Sensitive Materials business segment operating profit margins improved 100 basis points over the first quarter of this year reflecting aggressive cost management in the face of modest volume declines.
Our effective tax rate was 36.4% for the second quarter and we continue to expect the effective tax rate for the total year 2012 to be 36%.
Moving onto the statement of cash flows.
Cash provided by operating activities totaled $94.5 million for the second quarter.
Working capital was neutral although compared to last year's second quarter pension contributions reduced cash from operating activities by about $24 million and facility consolidation payments used an additional $4.5 million in cash.
We expect cash provided by operating activities to be in the range of $350 million for the full year 2012.
This will be influenced by the timing of cash payments associated with the now-expanded facility closures program.
As Henry explained capital expenditures and dividend payments are expected to use about $250 million.
The remaining cash will be focused principally on short-term debt reduction.
Our guidance for the second half of 2012 assumes volume will continue to be flat with the first half which will also be about equal to the volume levels of the second half of 2011.
As Henry explained our previous 2012 EPS guidance was based on the assumption that volumes in the second half would improve.
We based this assumption on volume outlooks from our key customers who are now predicting demand to remain soft through this year.
As a result we are lowering our total year adjusted EPS guidance to $2 -- to $2.10 per share and we expect the third quarter adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $0.51 to $0.57.
These ranges assume constant currency exchange rates and modest raw material cost benefits during the second half of the year.
I'll close by summarizing our focus for the balance of 2012 which is to continue to grow sales of our high-technology packaging products aggressively manage costs improve our profit margins execute our facility consolidation program and generate cash.
And now we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll hear first from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was just -- you mentioned again in the quarter for Flexible Packaging that you continue to maybe walk away from some lower value or lower margin business with some of your customers.
How much of that was the impact in the quarter to the top line? And then are we getting to a point where you've sort of walked away from as much of this business as you think you can or renegotiated where possible? First of all the amount of business that we lost would be minimal in comparison to our total sales.
So it's not a very large amount of money a large amount of revenue.
I think we pretty well had our conversations with our customers and it's really in their hands to decide if they like to move a little bit of the volume or leave it with us at a different price level.
But all in all it is not a lot of revenue that's at risk here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just following up with demand in Flexible Packaging from your protein customers I'm just wondering -- obviously with the drought some of their costs going are higher.
Is that -- you think that's more of a 2013 issue though than a 2012 issue for you on the protein side especially in North America? I think Scott that's more of 2013 issue for us.
And we'll see how that plays out.
We're in the food business that's protein business.
We're down a little bit even in this food inflationary times our meat sales are up slightly.
So it'll be interesting to see how that plays out later in 2013.
And next in queue we have Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Henry on the expansion of the asset rationalization program should we interpret this as you guys going through the process and then finding new opportunities that you want to act on? Or is this a function of needing to do more just given what the end market conditions are relative to your initial expectations? I think that's both of those things Ghansham.
We're looking-through just what our footprint is and where we can best manufacture.
As we talked about even with Alcan acquisition some of this comes from picking out which best runs which places and I think it's a little bit of both.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Scott on the guidance reduction for the full year how much of that is to reflect the change in currency and also as an offset just given your comments on resin how much do you think resin will benefit relative to perhaps the initial guidance at the beginning of the year? On currency second half assumes just flat currency.
But with where we are today what's really driving the adjustment guidance is our outlook on volumes which have come down from where we were even just 3 months ago.
On resin resin we think there's going to be some moderate tailwinds in the second half of the year.
Keep in mind that the raw material exposure that we face is including a lot of specialty resins.
And so when you see the price of polyethylene for example come down it doesn't mean that our whole cost structure is coming down.
We do think there'll be benefits in the second half.
We fully baked those into our EPS guidance range.
And the next question will come from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Do you have a sense as to what changed regarding your customers' line outlook for the second half? I mean why -- obviously their volume has been worse than they expected but do you have any sense as to why that happened and at what point they think they might have a recovering volume? I don't know if we would really be qualified to answer that.
I think that really has to come from our customers.
We have our own little views but they are views.
And then they wouldn't be based in what customers are thinking.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And volume in Latin America what was it in the quarter? Volume alone in Latin America was just up modestly.
Most of the -- excluding currency sales were up 10% and most of that was higher prices compared to a year ago as we they've been dealing with higher raw material costs.
And our next question will come from James Armstrong with Vertical Research Partners.
Two quick questions.
First are you noting any major changes in consumer behavior towards foods and other products packaged in Bemis products? Is there anything that you can call out? No I don't think so.
There's nothing we can really call out that would -- significant change or drastic change in our product portfolio.
Okay.
And then switching gears just a bit.
If beef prices rise due to the drought should we expect -- have you historically seen your volumes increase with the rise in the beef prices? Our demand for packaging for protein products is pretty well very low single-digit growth year-over-year irregardless of what's going on in the marketplace.
And next we'll hear from Alton Stump with Longbow Research.
Just I guess first off on the volume front if I think back to last quarter I think one of the key things you have mentioned is that you thought there will be good flow products coming out that we're being launched for the customer during the back half of the year.
Has that slowed at all? I mean is that part of the factor as well as to why your volume guidance has come down for the back half? No I think our new product launches are very well coming along.
And that's what's really -- when we talk about modest growth in our high-value packaging that's what's driving it.
That's why I gave those few examples just to show you some of the things that we're doing.
We're getting some modest volume growth because of the new packages and the new products that we're putting out in the marketplace.
So that's why our high-value end is doing better than the more commoditized area.
Okay.
And then I just have one quick follow-up to that.
Obviously it's awfully early to looking ahead to next year on the volume front but is there any confidence that we'll see volume recover in Flexibles heading into next year? I -- we're all sitting in the same economy.
We're looking at the same -- what's going on in the world and I wouldn't know what's going to change where we are today.
But as you know we all have the same view of the economy.
And our next question comes from Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I'm just curious with the facility rationalization is this really all just a matter of you going to be in the same businesses but you're going to serve it from fewer locations or does this include some decisions you've made up -- exit some particular markets maybe some lower value stuff? No it's the first part of your question.
In fact a lot of -- when we're shorting down these facilities these are facilities that are -- all the facilities that are in need of capital for new roofs heating ventilation electrical systems things that aren't going to add anything to our returns or they're in locations that we can't fundamentally expand.
So we're doing -- is we're taking out -- we're just closing those facilities and moving a lot of that equipment into other facilities to maintain our capacity and so we can service the markets the we're in.
It really is giving us a better footprint and avoiding some CapEx expenditures in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could as a follow-on Henry just when we've seen kind of big run offs in grain prices in corn prices like this in the past what's been your experience in sort of how that rolls-through to the protein business? I would think that in some parts of your business you'd actually get a little initial surge here because farmers would be sending at least more beef and pork perhaps to market.
But then a little bit further down the road you've got an issue with higher prices and just consumers purchasing less.
I think you're right.
When you first see this they can't feed the cattle.
You'll see the cattle and hogs and more of those will be slaughtered and that will help maintain lower prices for some of the protein products.
And then later on you'll see the rise in those products because there's a shortage over in the herd.
And what we have been very good at is delivering new products into those markets where our value was added to offset those drops.
And next in queue we have Albert Kabili with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question Henry is on the volume that you're stepping away from.
Can you help us with what kind of -- does that have a corresponding noticeable improvement in your price mix going forward? Or is this just more about getting your resin escalate or timing shortened up here? It has nothing to do with the escalator de-escalator timing.
This is just a small -- right now it's a very small part of our business in couple of places where the pricing is not giving us an adequate return and it's really below pricing for the market.
So we're just going back to our customers and saying "If we're going to move this business and we're going to maintain support then we need an adequate price." Research Division</strong> Okay okay very good.
And then I guess just on -- the second question is on with the facility rationalizations that you've announced.
And -- is there opportunity for more? Do you see -- are you still evaluating potentially more upside with respect to this type of activity or kind of where are you standing at with respect to that? I think that when we complete what we've talked about that is what we will do for the foreseeable future.
We will need to go back and talk about growing in our business and move away from these unfortunate closings.
And next we'll hear from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question for you if we look at the restructuring program the prior one it was going to generate savings of $40 million with cash cost of about $50 million.
And now we increased the savings by $10 million but it's going to cost you an extra $46 million or so of cash because the new cash cost is $96 million.
So I realized that payback is 2 years in total but on this latest round it's kind of like 4 years.
So I was wondering why is this program even though you’re closing smaller facilities so much more cash expensive if you will? George it's Scott.
Good question.
The answer is these facilities are outside of the U.S.
And we have extraordinarily higher social costs postretirement liabilities we've got to cover and so the short term bank for the buck is lower and closing these o U.S.
facilities than it is for the facilities that we had announced previously.
We're doing it because it's the right thing to do for a geographic footprint.
It's the right way to continue to capitalize the ongoing manufacturing facilities we have in place but the short-term bank cash on return is not as positive as -- for the ones we announced previously.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question for now and I'll come back to queue please I know prior to this latest tranche there was one more facility the largest one of the initial program that was going to closing over the course of this year.
Where do you stand in managing that closure? Because it's obviously going to be a more important piece of the puzzle.
That particular facility is one -- it was the largest facility that we're closing.
And so what we are in the process of doing is moving equipment into another one of our facilities.
So we had planned to close that in the fourth quarter and it is on pace and it we're not slowing it -- or what takes time is the transfer of the equipment into a different facility.
But we're on pace.
And the next question comes from Mike Hamilton Royal Bank of Canada.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a big picture question on Brazil going into World Cup and Olympics et cetera.
Is that doing anything in your thinking of what you're trying to accomplish? Is there any benefit off of that or will it be pretty much business as usual? It’ll be pretty much business as usual in Brazil.
And our next question comes from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is actually Gabe Hajde on for Chris.
Question on some of the capital projects that you walked away from to the tune of $25 million.
Can you talk about what types of projects those were and if they may come back to the plate? We don't -- we really didn't walk away from that.
What we're really doing is postponing it.
We're taking a look at where our volumes are and we are just postponing those.
We still think they are good projects in a way to just standard capacity increases and some of the areas that we need to support.
We're not walking away from any investments in CapEx that add to our value-added product line.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you remind us again from a leverage standpoint where you folks feel comfortable operating in future acquisition opportunities or areas to consolidate to maybe fix less rational pricing environment in some of these products? Gabe it's Scott.
Our target debt to EBITDA ratio is in the neighborhood of 2x.
And so this year we're continuing to pay down some debt.
So that when we do make future acquisitions we've got more capacity to delever up and still be investment-grade.
And that's really the way we plan our leverage ratios is to maintain that investment-grade rating.
[Operator Instructions] And we do have a follow-up question from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk a little bit more about the Pressure Sensitive market.
I think you had mentioned that your units were down slightly.
In the quarter one of your competitors sounded like they were -- had unit volumes that were up in the quarter and potentially taking some market share especially over in Europe.
Can you talk about that business a little bit more specifically and what you're seeing from a competitive landscape in the quarter? Our Pressure Sensitive business is a very competitive business.
We're basically the #3 player behind every Avery Dennison and UPM's Raflatac Industries.
And I think our quarter is similar to any quarter in that business.
I didn't see we lost significant volumes or gain significant volumes and things are pretty much status quo as normal competition in the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one clarification on the pullback in CapEx.
So you're saying that none of the $25 million in CapEx that you pulled down was related to any of these additional facilities.
You weren't going to go in there and invest in those facilities that you're actually now taking out? Okay.
No.
We have not planned to make any investments in there.
We look at those early on and they were not in the $175 million plan.
And that's part of the reason we took them down because they're just not worthy of investment.
And next we have a question from Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if you guys discussed this already.
Your volume outlook for you guys in the back half is a little more cautious now.
What are your customers saying and how are they managing their inventory? I understand previously you had expected some new products rolling out and whatnot.
I just want to get clarity on that.
Well first off the products we expect to roll out are rolling out.
I mean no matter what the economy is we -- our customers need of those new products to differentiate themselves in the marketplace.
So our new -- and I went through a couple of them earlier on just to show you that we do have that portfolio of new products.
Well our customers are just saying that they have to pass-through the food inflation.
There are no choices.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with corn prices moving up are you -- are there any concerns from your perspective that food inflation would be a bigger risk in and back half or early next year? Yes.
As these corn prices go up or wheat prices go up they affect food inflation.
We would see some of that this year.
Consumer still has to eat still has to take the products so -- and our new offerings and our new development and our chain of R&amp;D always keeps us ahead of the game.
[Operator Instructions] We have a follow-up from George Staphos Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First on volume if I heard you correctly I think you said your new volume outlook for the second half of 2012 would put you more or less flat with the second half of 2011.
I just want to confirm if that was the case.
And is it just comparisons are easy that allow you to keep sort of flat with last year given what has been obviously through the first half a down 5% or so compare? That's what it is.
Its -- on a sequential basis we expect volumes to stay about where they are and -- which is about where they were in 2011.
2011 -- remember volumes in 2011 were higher in the first half than they were in the first half of this year.
And so for the total year we expect volumes to be down this year about 2% to 3% versus last year.
But flat with last year for the second half.
Research Division</strong> Okay Scott I had one bigger picture question that I ask periodically and I wanted to get a refresh from you all.
If I look at Bemis' strategy over the long-term it's been mostly what we've heard today and on past conference calls the company has focused on new products bringing new features to the market new substrates new barriers and so on.
And that's fine.
I realize that you're dealing right now with a very challenging environment in terms of food inflation and what that's meant for you demand for your key markets.
But bigger picture looking back to late 1990s even your margin and your current on capital have been flat to down which is different than what you've seen for the packaging industry as a whole which has seen an increase in margin and returns slowdown returns.
Why do you feel that the strategy you have in place is the right strategy? What in your strategy in the future do you hope will help improve returns on capital for your shareholders? George the answer is the strategy that we are executing now is a different strategy than the one we were executing even 2 years ago.
Because what we're doing now is rationalizing our significant fixed asset base in order to improve our returns on invested capital.
And in order to continue to build profits in the face of end markets that from what we can see into the foreseeable future are not going to deliver any great volume growth for us.
So we're setting up the company to be successful from a profitability margin standpoint from a return on capital standpoint in light of the new normal in our markets and we feel good about that new strategic direction that we've taken on.
It's a lot of work.
We've got everyone at Bemis focused on this goal.
We're obviously spending a lot of time a lot of resources and combined with the world-class operations management initiatives that we kicked off we really feel positive about our ability to be a low-cost high value-added product provider to our customers.
George I'd like to point out that in that decade you're talking about we made some decisions as a management team to invest in a global basis and expand our footprint.
And we see -- bought significant assets in Brazil and in Europe and those were not performing as high as our high-value area.
In addition we -- as the economies of those areas increased we spent quite a bit of capital to be prepared to do the value-added things that we want to go forward with.
So we made some decisions in acquisitions to bring in some pieces of business that were dilutive to those metrics.
And with no further questions I'll turn the call back to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
That concludes our call today.
Thank you everyone for joining us and have a great day.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to the Bemis Company Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I will now turn the call over to the Vice President and Treasurer for Bemis Company Ms.
Melanie Miller.
Ms.
Miller please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Welcome to our third quarter 2012 conference call.
Today is October 25 2012.
After today's call a replay will be available on our website www.bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are Bemis Company's President and Chief Executive Officer Henry Theisen; and our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Scott Ullem.
Today Henry will begin with comments on the performance of the business followed by Scott with comments on the detailed financial results.
After our comments we will answer any questions you have.
[Operator Instructions] Before we begin I'd like to remind everyone that statements regarding future performance of the company made in this teleconference are forward-looking and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors including currency fluctuations changes in raw material cost and availability industry competition unexpected consumer buying trends changes in customer order patterns our ability to pass along increased costs in our selling prices unexpected costs related to our facility consolidation program and plant closing interest rate fluctuations and regional economic conditions.
A more complete list of risk factors is included in our regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011.
Now I'll turn the call over to Henry Theisen.
Good morning.
Today we are pleased to announce adjusted earnings per share of $0.60 for the third quarter.
This was above our guidance range and reflected higher sales volumes for barrier packaging products compared to our original expectations.
As we look at the quarter there are a number of factors that positively impacted performance.
First we experienced unit volume increase of 3% to 5% for high barrier packaging for meat and cheese dairy and liquid products and dry foods including coffee.
These products require multi-layer film technology to protect shelf life and provide high-performance sealant strength.
The increase in meat and cheese packaging reflects the successful ramp-up of new business compared to last year's third quarter.
As I discussed last quarter we're also winning new dairy and liquid packaging business with our high performance semi-rigid cups and lidding materials which provide an environmentally friendly solution to customers looking to eliminate PVdC from packaging.
Both single-serve and bulk coffee packaging volumes also increased compared to last year's third quarter.
The second positive factor was that resin costs were relatively stable during the third quarter with some benefit early in the quarter from lower commodity resin costs offset by stable and the increase in specialty resin costs.
We anticipate resin cost to have a negligible effect on results through the rest of the year.
Lastly we're about halfway complete with our facility consolidation program which will improve the efficiency of our global manufacturing operations by consolidating the business from 9 different locations into other facilities.
We have closed 4 of the 9 locations through the end of the third quarter.
During the third quarter we started to realize some of the cost savings associated with this progress to date.
The remaining 5 facilities will be closed during the fourth quarter of 2012 or the first quarter of 2013.
We expect almost all of the remaining business relocation activity to occur during the fourth quarter.
So as we head into the fourth quarter we expect to maintain the sales mix and cost-saving improvements we realized during the third quarter.
But some of this benefit will be offset by increased inefficiencies associated with the transition of production from the remaining facilities being closed.
Our teams have worked diligently to provide customers with a smooth transition as production is moved to other locations and I am pleased with the progress we have made.
As I have said in the past we continue to take pricing actions to improve our margins and performance metrics in those pieces of business that did not give us an appropriate level of return.
This is not a broad action but is surgical and related only to those specific pieces of business that did not meet our margin requirements.
To date these actions are accomplishing our goals.
Briefly highlighting our business outside of North America our Latin American operations are managing through a challenging economic environment that is impacting our customers in that region.
We continue to see customers on track to modernize their products using flexible packaging to reduce waste and improve shelf life as well as consumer appeal and convenience features.
In Europe our medical device packaging operations are enjoying increasing volume levels capped compared to 2011.
But customers remain cautious about predicting future demand.
Our other European base Flexible Packaging operations continue to face a difficult environment in which customers are hesitant to invest and competitors are desperate for volume.
In this environment we are carefully managing our customer relationships and adjusting our cost structures as needed to account for specific volume declines.
Our business in Asia Pacific is expanding with the additional capacity added to our food packaging plant in China and the acquisition of 2 small distributorships in the Australia and New Zealand market.
As we further develop our capabilities in this region we are focusing on value-added products such as barrier packaging for food products retort packaging and pouch making as well as medical device packaging.
As we have said in the past it is not our intent to be the largest in Asia-Pacific region.
Instead we want to grow our Asia-Pacific presence with unique products that position us over the long term for a leadership position in packaging solutions that protect food safety and sterility.
Our pressure sensitive materials business segment is performing well in this challenging economic environment.
The third quarter is a seasonally slower period for this business and sales and profit continue to match the prior year levels.
Going forward we are executing our plan to deliver consistently improving performance metrics with initiatives that leverage our scale identify investments in focused growth areas and accelerate innovation to deliver value to our customers and improve profitability to Bemis.
Now I'll turn the call over to Scott for his comments on the financials.
Thanks Henry.
Good morning everyone.
Our record-high adjusted diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of $0.60 represented an increase of about 7% over last year's third quarter an 11% increase sequentially from second quarter and was above our guidance range of $0.51 to $0.57.
I'll start this morning by commenting on volumes.
We are especially pleased with our earnings performance because we've done it despite having to overcome tough volumes all year.
Recall we started the year expecting stronger volumes for the second half based upon our customers' forecasts of end-market demand and their pricing and promotional plans.
By the end of the second quarter this year our expectation was reduced to flat second half volumes.
And now at the end of the third quarter we've seen volumes actually turn negative year-over-year.
In spite of the volume headwinds we drove solid earnings by improving sales mix and delivering cost savings.
Starting with flexible packaging and excluding the impact of currency and acquisitions net sales decreased about 1.8% reflecting a 3.7% decrease in volume partially offset by increases in price and mix.
Specifically volume increased in several of our high-value-added product areas such as packaging for meat and cheese dairy and liquids and dry foods.
In our other product areas volumes were generally down with the exception of pet products and fresh produce where new business increased volumes modestly compared to last year.
We experienced volume declines in a number of product areas such as packaging for bakery confectionery and snack beverage specialty food and health and hygiene applications.
Dividing these trends by geography in North America net sales decreased by about 3.5% due entirely to overall volume declines.
Sales mix generally reflected the overall trends that I just mentioned.
In Latin America net sales excluding currency increased by about 6% principally driven by increasing prices reflecting higher raw material costs compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Sales mix also improved but was more than offset by lower sales volumes.
European Flexible Packaging volumes were higher in our medical device packaging business while our food packaging business continues to experience lower year-over-year volume levels.
Moving on to the pressure sensitive materials business segment unit volumes were up about 3% in label products partially offset by a decrease of over 5% each in graphic and technical products.
Since label products continues to represent over half of the sales in this business segment the overall positive unit sales volume driven by growth in label products was more than offset by a negative impact from price and mix during the quarter.
Bemis' consolidated gross margins improved from 16.5% in the third quarter of 2011 to 19.2% in the third quarter of this year.
Again this improvement reflects improved sales mix a better alignment between the cost of raw materials and our selling prices to customers compared to the third quarter of 2011 and some savings associated with the facility consolidation activities completed so far this year.
Now I'm going to provide an update on our facility consolidation program.
As Henry mentioned we started realizing net cost savings benefits in the third quarter which is earlier than we originally planned driven by 2 factors.
Number one we've talked previously about the fact that the cost savings that hit in 2012 this year would be largely offset by short-term inefficiencies such as lower machine productivity and increased waste when we restart equipment.
As it turned out the expected inefficiencies will be deferred to future quarters.
Number two our teams have done an excellent job of delivering cost savings ahead of schedule for the plants we've already closed.
Based upon our assessment of savings specifically associated with actions taken to date approximately $5 million of cost savings were realized during this quarter.
This represents annualized cost savings achieved of approximately $20 million as compared to our total program estimate of $50 million in annualized savings.
During the third quarter we incurred charges of $21.4 million and cash payments totaled $11.2 million.
You can see the facility consolidation programs' complete financial timing and expense details on Page 2 of this morning's press release.
Continuing through the income statement selling general and administrative expenses in 2012 will continue to fluctuate reflecting the impact of changes related to the facilities consolidation program the addition of businesses we already acquired and the adjustments of incentive compensation in response to business performance expectations.
We expect total year 2012 SG&amp;A to average 9.5% to 10% of net sales.
Adjusted operating profit for the flexible packaging business segment increased 170 basis points to 11.5% compared to 9.8% in the third quarter of last year and 10.1% in the second quarter of this year.
In the pressure sensitive materials business segment operating profit margins were very close to the levels of 2011 reflecting our focus on prudent cost management in this challenging volume environment.
Our effective tax rate was 36.1% for the third quarter and we continue to expect the effective tax rate for the total year 2012 to be 36%.
Moving on to the statement of cash flows.
Cash provided by operating activities totaled $147 million for the third quarter.
Working capital provided $42 million of cash flow during the third quarter while facility consolidation payments used an additional $11 million of cash.
Reiterating our expectations for future cash flows we expect cash provided by operating activities to be in the range of $350 million for this full year growing to $500 million annually beginning in 2014.
Our adjusted earnings per share guidance for the fourth quarter of 2012 is $0.47 to $0.52 per share which would mean full year adjusted earnings per share guidance of $2.10 to $2.15.
In this range 2012 would be the first or second best year of earnings in Bemis history.
There are some specific headwinds and tailwinds that will influence our earnings in the fourth quarter.
If we can maintain the sales mix improvement and continue to deliver the cost savings ahead of our original forecasts we could end up at the top end of our range.
Of course that means there will be fewer incremental savings coming in 2013 since we're starting to recognize them in 2012.
Aside from our typical season slowdown in the fourth quarter the biggest hurdle we are trying to clear is continuing weak volumes in many of our end markets.
Mix improvements and cost savings are helping fuel earnings growth in a declining volume environment but we can't cost cut our way to profit growth over the long-term.
Our customers especially the CPG and food companies are battling declining volumes and so we are too and expected food-cost inflation won't help drive consumer demand.
So our business teams are vigorously chasing down profitable revenue opportunities around the world and Bemis' industry-leading products are helping us compete against others in our industry who are chasing the same volumes.
One last note before we open the call for questions.
Our EPS guidance range assumes no further weakening in the Brazilian and European currencies and no raw material spikes.
And now operator please open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And first we'll go to Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Do you have reason to expect your improved sales mix to continue into future quarters? And if so why? Yes I do expect that to continue.
Our products in the high barrier and in the areas of sterility -- food safety and sterility are excellent products.
The thermal formability the sealability the barrier properties are prized by our customers and we have good quality and consistent films.
We also have a good backlog of new products and new developments coming out of our R&amp;D organizations.
In addition part of the price mix improvement that we see are some of the pricing actions that we took as we looked at our various facility consolidations.
And products that did not satisfy the margins that we feel we need to move the business we took the appropriate actions.
So it's kind of a combination of the products that we make are taking market share we have a strong bench of new products to offer for high barrier food safety and sterility and the specific pricing actions also help.
Research Division</strong> Henry just related to that answer what degree of pushback did you get from your customers in terms of raising prices on those certain products? Oh we had a lot of pushback.
No one likes to accept price increases and they just had to make a decision at the end of the day whether they wanted to stay to be a Bemis supply customer or whether they wanted to find somebody else.
And there was a lot of pushback and it was a -- our marketing and sales team did an excellent job of managing through that.
Again I want to point out that that is a small part of our business.
It was not a major thing.
It was taking a look at what materials that we make in the plants that we are closing and is it appropriate to spend the money and the time and the effort to move that business or is it not appropriate.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And what accounted for the savings from the facility consolidation program being greater than you expected 3 months ago? Forgive me if you already touched on this and I missed it.
Adam they're not -- we're on the same program which is that we expect that $50 million in annualized cost savings as we get into 2013.
The only difference is that we got more of those net cost savings net of some of the inefficiencies associated with them earlier than we would've expected.
So that's why we ended up with about $5 million in the third quarter of benefit.
That's a little earlier than we expected.
Moving on we'll go to Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Mehul Dalia sitting in for Ghansham.
Can you update us on your strategy for Europe in flexibles given that some large competitors are rethinking their footprint there and even considering exiting the market? What is your outlook on the region? Our flexible packaging in Europe? We are closing a facility.
We had announced that I think about 3 months ago.
So we are shrinking our footprint a little bit.
Our strategy in Europe as it's always been is to make value-added products.
And we have 2 businesses in Europe.
One is in the medical device area and that's a very good business for us and we're very happy and it's continuing to provide appropriate margins and profits.
We have a food packaging business that is suffering as the economy suffers.
So let's say we adjusted one footprint one plant is going down we're moving some equipment around and we're concentrating on those value-added products and the technology that we offer and going forward.
Research Division</strong> And as a follow-on can you update us on the competitive landscape across your businesses and price competitiveness that you're seeing? I think that across all of our businesses as far as price competitiveness it is the same as it's always been.
And our customers are always looking for savings.
We're always trying to develop products that put us ahead of our customers -- our competitors excuse me and we win some and we lose some.
And I don't think it's changed over the last few years.
And next we'll go to George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question I had obviously you've a very busy season coming up in terms of closure programs for the remaining facilities.
And I know you've been planning this Henry.
But how do you prevent against -- why do you feel comfortable that you won't have any disruptions in terms of moving the business around to the remaining facilities? Then I had a follow-on.
I think that we have planned this with the operating guys.
The operating guys are on board.
We have a timetable laid out.
We have specific action items that we know each of our business units are responsible for.
We know inside those business units which individuals are responsible to accomplish the specific tasks that need to accomplish this.
So we have a very good plan.
We have the people identified.
The people know exactly what their responsibility to deliver is and we're going to do this very successfully and our customers will -- this will be seamless to our customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question's a two-part but I'll keep it quick I promise.
On the one hand we've begun to see some pickup in the takeaway or point-of-sale data for various food categories.
Have you begun to see that as well? And one of the things that we heard about in the third quarter from some of your peer companies is that some of the larger food companies had some larger than normal operating programs which prevented them from ordering as much as they normally would.
Did you see that at all in terms of some of your customers were going through some structural changes? Well I can answer the last part of that first.
I don't believe we've seen that.
No.
I couldn't identify that.
So -- and the other part is we have seen some uptick in some volumes in our high-barrier area that we pointed out meat and cheese liquid and dairy.
And then we've seen some of our other products which are more on the competitive side the side that we've taken more pricing actions with and been more firmer in the bakery and some of those type areas candy cookies snacks we've seen some of those tail off a little bit for us.
Okay next we'll go to Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you and then I'll jump back in the queue.
First Scott could you -- I know it's maybe a difficult question to answer but if we were to put everything in a vacuum just help us with -- you said $20 million on an annualized basis this year.
What would be the differential between 2012 and 2013 if I were to just take from restructuring savings in a flat volume environment all the other stuff steady that you would have 2013 versus 2012 and savings that we would realize let's say EBIT dollars up x kind of scenario? I'm not sure I understand the question but let me try to answer it and you tell me if I got it right or not.
So far through the third quarter we are on track to -- we have recognized cost savings amounting to $20 million on a annualized run rate basis.
By the end of call it the second quarter of 2013 we will be on a $50 million annualized cost savings run rate.
And so the slope between here and Q2 of 2013 I can't be any more precise than that but that's the path that we're on.
LLC Research Division</strong> So it sounds like if -- wherever you're in in the year 2012 kind of looking at these run rates as though there's opportunity for EBIT to be up $30 million due to cost takeouts and things absent everything else.
Am I capturing that kind of the right way? I think we expect all $50 million on an annualized basis to fall to the bottom line.
Those are cost savings.
By the end of the year -- I can't give you more precision around by the end of 2012 what run rate we'll be on.
And in the third quarter we would've expected actually to have more onetime inefficiencies like what I talked about lower productivity from equipment higher waste on equipment that's being relocated.
And so we actually didn't expect that we were going to get this $5 million in net cost savings in Q3.
And I think in Q4 there may be more offsets to some of those cost savings.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
So to my second question is over the last several months we've seen a pretty good tick up in slaughter rates as many of the farmers just are having trouble meeting -- not getting the prices they want for whatever protein they've got with respect to input feedstock and other stuff feed coming higher.
And as part of that we've seen actually some dairy cows and things that look like they've been slaughtered for lower grades of meat and such.
As you -- I'm realizing that dairy's a good portion of your business.
Does that give you any pause or concern as you think about what things could look like next year that a that creates a lot of inflation and b that maybe there's not as much there for certain dairy packaging things of that nature.
So how do you think about it or have you seen any of that kind of activity number one? Number two do you -- is it a risk that you may have for 2013? I think the fact that you're seeing some of these slaughter rates go up and you do know that it takes from the time that they start building the herds it takes about 3 years to build that herd back up.
We factor that into our plans.
It does cause us to think about it to put it into our CapEx plans put it into our business plans but -- and we do know that rising food costs will affect the volumes.
However when we look at our business we look at how much business we can take from our competitors based on the quality of our -- and consistency of our products.
We also look at adding new features new barriers new structures and new products to serve the protein business.
And so we think we can overcome that.
As I said we have a very strong development line coming through various new products.
And I think that's going to overcome any challenges we may have on volumes just related to the size of the herds.
[Operator Instructions] We'll next go to Todd Wenning with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us an update on your progress in converting some of the legacy Alcan contracts into some shorter polyethylene past-due schedules? I think by the end of 2013 we will have substantially completed that effort.
Excuse me by the end of 2012 we will have substantially covered that and our customers' terms will be in line with the Bemis strategy.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And what are you seeing in terms of conversion trends to plastic packaging from alternative packaging types particularly in the U.S.
food market? Are there any specific food types converting better than others? I don't think there's any specific change that's occurring right now.
I think it's just a general trend that continues.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Were there any specific food types that are doing better than others? I don't see so.
I know there's a lot of talk about changing from cans to pouches and things but we haven't seen that really kick into our volumes yet.
Okay and next we'll go to Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
I'm sorry I missed this did you give the breakdown in the flexible packaging segment between how much the prices were up on average and how much the volumes were down on a unit basis? In -- one in total count if you just look at flexible packaging volume was down a little over -- it's about 3.7% and then that was offset by improvements in both price and mix.
It gets down to a total change in price volume excluding acquisitions and currency of a decrease of 1.8%.
Got you.
So in other words 1.8% is of revenue decline excluding federal -- FX basically just including the impact of volume price and mix? Exactly.
And volume was down over 3.5%.
And next we'll go to Mike Hamilton with RBC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you give some insights into what you're trying to accomplish tactically right now in Brazil what you see kind of the opportunities and concerns are as you look out over the next 6 months? Well the Brazilian economy has slowed a little bit.
It's gone from kind of growing from 6% to 8% to having very low growth.
Our strategies are the same as they have been before this change.
We continue to want to invest in materials and in products that attack food safety and that attack sterility and we're going to continue that program of transferring technology and putting higher technology products for food safety and sterility into that marketplace.
[Operator Instructions] We'll next go to Albert Kabili with Crédit Suisse.
This is actually Ernie filling in for Al.
Can you just talk a little bit about your new product pipeline and how we should think about it? Well I think that we have excellent product pipeline.
We're trying to always improve things like barriers.
We're always trying to improve things around sealability.
We're always trying to improve things to get better formability extended shelf lifes.
And no matter what market it is those are the things we work on and adding convenience features easy open.
We try to attack things to improve sustainability.
We have a new rigid program that eliminates PVdC in a lot of these cups you use for dairies and liquids.
We have programs that are expanding into retort packaging aseptic packaging.
In many parts of the world they don't have refrigeration like we have so we're attacking those markets.
And the core understanding of our polymer science is what allows us to make products that satisfy our customers' needs.
That's helpful.
And I guess just a last one.
How would you describe your more cyclical end markets like technical products on the PSM side? And then kind of what's your outlook for the quarter? Could you ask that question one more time please? Sure.
What are you seeing in your more cyclical end markets like more like technical products in the PSM side and your outlook on that end for the quarter? And so as we've mentioned we've seen pretty strong volumes in the roll label side in our pressure sensitive materials segment.
We've seen volume weakness in our graphics and technical products.
This is a seasonal slow period for us in pressure sensitive and we're pleased with the performance that we've seen just in terms of tracking year-over-year performance consistent with where we were in 2011.
We're not going to give a specific forecast though for the fourth quarter in pressure sensitive materials.
And next we'll do Phil Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I heard you guys correctly it sounds like most of the legacy Alcan contracts will be repriced.
So one should we assume less share leakage going forward and two with the contracts reset and your restructuring taking hold should we expect operating margins to get back to that 12% to 13% range for flexible maybe in the back half of 2012 -- I mean 2013 or early 2014? As far as our margins improving in our flexible packaging business the best thing that could happen for us is to get just a couple of percent growth overall in our packaging business.
So if we can get a little bit of growth we can keep moving that margin up.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right that's helpful.
And then for me balance sheet standpoint maybe a question for Scott it sounds like you guys should be back to your target by the end of the year.
Historically you guys didn't -- buying back stock more to offset dilution.
Is that the loss which [ph] shift a little bit? It looks like 2013 should be another strong free cash flow year.
Yes we expect 2013 to be another strong free cash flow year marching from $350 million this year up to $500 million in 2014.
Our priorities for cash are unchanged: number one we're going to continue to pay an increasing dividend; number two we're going to fund sufficient return internal growth investment; number three we will fund -- we will help fund episodic acquisitions which will likely be on the smaller side and likely be outside of the U.S.
moreso than in the U.S.; and then finally using the balance sheet to manage the debt-to-equity ratio.
And so you won't see us -- we don't want to get too far below 2.0x.
And if we do then we're going to be in the market buying back shares.
[Operator Instructions] We'll next take another question from Chris Manuel at Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about specialty resins.
It looks like we're starting to see some uptick there as we move in to 4Q and into next year.
Can you give us a sense as to what you're seeing and what you -- how you anticipate that playing out? I think the best answer to that question is we're basing in our plans for the fourth quarter a flat resin market open specialty and on the commodity area.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But are you seeing any inflation I guess is what I'm asking for specialty? You mentioned earlier that you're seeing some uptick I think in some prepared remarks.
But is that something that is coming now coming later or -- that's what I'm asking.
I don't -- this is my guess.
It's not anything that -- we're not factoring in inflated markets for the specialty resins.
LLC Research Division</strong> The other question I had is actually a follow-up on part of your last answer with respect to some of the acquisitions.
You did 2 distributors in Australia and as I look back over the last 1 1.5 years you've been pretty active in terms of a number of things.
I think there was a JV earlier this year there were Chinese acquisition and another one here in North America that got you into some industrial markets.
Can you maybe give us a little color just on the most recent 2 the Australian ones? They're a distributor.
What's the -- how big a markets for flexible packaging are those there? And what you think the opportunity is? Were you selling to those distributors presently? So is there -- maybe some additional color would be helpful.
Okay.
I can take that one.
These 2 distributors when we bought the shrink bag business were distributors for this case at the time which is -- who've company we acquired the shrink bag business from.
So we continued to work with them and they were our distributor of the shrink bag product lines.
When we acquired Alcan we also acquired a manufacturing site and a sales organization in New Zealand that we're selling into the market.
So we were finding ourselves competing with ourselves.
And this was just an opportune time that came up for us to eliminate that -- to manage that much better by buying out the distributors now and we receive their sales force and those customers and it just strengthens the operation that we already have.
And next we'll go to Adam Josephson with KeyBanc again.
Research Division</strong> Just one how do you compare your sensitivity to changes in resin prices to what it was a year ago? And what do you expect the situation to be a year from now? I think we have to talk about -- if we have a market that goes up and down or goes up slowly or in some kind of a uniform way we can handle those ups and downs of the resin market.
The problem that we had about 1 year ago or a 1.5 years ago is that it shot up like a rocket and we could never catch up.
So I mean if we hit markets where you're adding 5% 10% increase in raw materials month over month over month over month so that in a short period of time your basic normal raw materials go up a third that puts us behind the 8 ball and it takes us a little bit to get through it.
If we're going to have modest increases or increases that occur over a uniform time in a more gradual operation our systems and how we handle those increases we're able to deal with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one other one on returns on capital.
You guys have talked about focusing more on that measure and this quarter is clearly a step in the right direction.
To use a baseball game analogy what inning would you say you're in in terms of improving on your returns on capital? Adam I'm not sure I can I'm not sure I can give you a baseball inning analogy.
What I will say is we're very focused on making sure that we're getting appropriate returns on our investors' capital.
And to be more specific we spent a lot of time analyzing our business by division and by geography to assess where we've got the best opportunities to put capital to work on internal growth initiatives on external acquisition initiatives and on financially engineering the balance sheet.
And what I guess -- what I can tell you is the management team our board all of our employees are very focused on improving our returns on invested capital.
And we'll take one more question.
[Operator Instructions] That's Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
And again apologies if you reviewed this.
I know you've made a couple of acquisitions I believe one -- at least one in China that probably helped on the volume front.
So the 3.7% volume decline does that -- is that sort of the organic number or does that -- what was that? Would it have been a little bit lower if you didn't include acquisitions? No that's the organic number.
Acquisitions actually did have a positive impact of 1.3%.
So if you ignore FX and you ignore acquisitions both of those impacts you're left with an organic 3.7%.
Great.
And then last question real quickly is do you feel you gained any market share in any major segments? I know some of -- one of your competitors has been a bit distracted.
I didn't know if that had -- I know it's somewhat fragmented but have you seen share gains in any categories especially on the food side? Well I think that we've gained share in cheese meat dairy and liquids.
[Operator Instructions] Okay we have no further questions so I'd like to turn it back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
And thank you everyone for joining us today.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank everyone again for their participation.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to the Bemis Fourth Quarter and Year End 2012 Earnings Call.
This call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I will now turn the call over to the Vice President and Treasurer for Bemis Company Ms.
Melanie Miller.
Ms.
Miller please go ahead.
Thank you.
Welcome to our Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Conference Call.
Today is January 31 2013.
After today's call a replay will be available on our website www.bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are Bemis Company's President and Chief Executive Officer Henry Theisen; and our Chief Financial Officer Scott Ullem.
Today Scott will begin with comments on the financial results followed by Henry with comments on business performance and investments.
After our comments we will answer any questions you have.
[Operator Instructions] On today's call we will also discuss non-GAAP financial information as we talk about Bemis' performance.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures we consider most comparable can be found in the release and supplemental schedules on our corporate website under Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'd like to remind everyone that statements regarding future performance of the company made in this teleconference are forward-looking and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors including currency fluctuations changes in raw material cost and availability industry competition unexpected costs associated with information systems changes in customer order patterns our ability to pass along increased costs in our selling prices unexpected costs related to our facility consolidation program and plant closings interest rate fluctuations and regional economic conditions.
A more complete list of risk factors is included in our regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011.
Now I'll turn the call over to Scott Ullem.
Thanks Melanie.
Good morning.
We had a strong finish to the year.
But before I cover the 2012 financial results and 2013 guidance I'd like to explain some changes we have made to increase disclosure of financial information.
First on January 10 we announced the separation of our Flexible Packaging business segment into 2 different reportable segments: U.S.
Packaging and Global Packaging.
Bemis now reports the results of 3 segments including our Pressure Sensitive Materials business.
Our comments today will provide color about the results and trends in each of these 3 segments.
To give you a summary view of the segments in 2012 U.S.
Packaging represented 59% of total company sales and 76% of total adjusted operating profit.
Global Packaging generated 30% of total sales and 17% of operating profit.
Pressure Sensitive Materials contributed 11% of total sales and 7% of profit from operations.
Our U.S.
Packaging business contributes higher operating profit margins than our other 2 segments each of which has a different strategy to generate value for Bemis.
In short our Global Packaging segment is positioned to capture attractive top line growth in emerging markets and we expect to improve the profit margins over time as we introduce high barrier packaging that commands higher margins.
Our Pressure Sensitive Materials business is more exposed to overall macroeconomic conditions and half of the business is in Europe so it has been fighting strong headwinds in this lackluster economic environment.
But over time Pressure Sensitive can contribute strong cash flow and adhesive technology to Bemis.
The second action we have taken to enhance disclosure is to post on our website some supplemental schedules with information that provides more details on our financial results.
We will add some additional metrics on our website going forward.
We would appreciate your feedback on other information investors would find valuable.
Now with regard to total year 2012 there's a lot to cover this quarter due to our new segment reporting structure and the adjustments we have booked in connection with our facility consolidation program.
My report this morning is broken down into 4 sections: first a quick overview; second I'll discuss fourth quarter results for Bemis and for each of our 3 reportable segments; next I'll cover the full year 2012 results; and finally I'll present guidance for 2013.
We had a strong quarter which contributed to solid results for the full year.
This morning we reported adjusted earnings per share of $2.15 an 8% improvement from 2011 and at the top of our guidance range of $2.10 to $2.15 per share.
Improved gross margins delivered much of this improvement increasing to 18.4% of net sales in 2012 compared to 17.1% in 2011.
This improvement reflects some of the cost savings from our facilities consolidation efforts efficiencies we have created through World Class Operations Management as well as better sales mix in both the U.S.
and Global Packaging segments.
As we look towards 2013 we expect the sales mix improvements to be sustainable and our cost savings to grow.
The facility consolidation program effort is nearly complete with the last production transfers to other Bemis plants expected to occur by the end of the first quarter.
As shown in the supplemental schedule on our website total expense charged in 2012 was $69 million and cash paid was $35 million.
In 2013 we expect to record an additional $34 million of expense.
While most of this expense will occur during the first quarter we expect certain costs related to dispositions or closures of facilities to be delayed until at least the second quarter.
Cash payments in 2013 are expected to total $50 million so we are on pace to come in under the original cash cost we budgeted for the facility consolidation program.
Annualized cost savings from the facility consolidation program are expected to achieve the full $50 million run rate during the second quarter of 2013.
In total given the activity yet to be completed during the first quarter we expect about $45 million of cost savings to be realized in 2013.
This represents an incremental $37 million of cost savings compared to the $8 million of total savings realized in 2012.
Turning to Part 2 of this report I am pleased to report fourth quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.52 compared to $0.45 for the same period of 2011.
This represents a 16% improvement from 2011 and the top of our guidance range for the quarter.
Our guidance for the fourth quarter assumed that facility consolidation cost savings would be offset by lower performance and expenses due to the disruption caused by our production consolidation efforts.
In fact those inefficiencies were less than unexpected and we estimate that about $3 million of net cost savings were realized during the fourth quarter.
This followed net savings in the third quarter of about $5 million which is how we get to the $8 million total for the year.
Bemis' net sales in the fourth quarter decreased by 1.4% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 excluding the impact of currency and acquisitions.
This decrease reflects generally lower volumes partially offset by higher pricing.
Lower volumes reflect the impact of a weaker demand environment and the actions we took to address some low margin business.
Before moving to fourth quarter results for our 3 segments I will highlight 2 nonrecurring income statement items unique to 2012: our effective tax rates and the harmonization of internal accounting practices.
Our full year effective income tax rate was 37.6% which was higher than originally forecast.
The higher rate was caused by adjustments of valuation allowances against deferred tax assets in certain foreign countries.
These adjustments were necessary based on our current analysis of the future benefits related to these tax-deferred assets.
Without these adjustments our effective income tax rate for the year would have been approximately 36% which is normal for Bemis.
These adjustments were made in the fourth quarter so the effective tax rate in Q4 was even more unusually high at 42.7% versus our normal 36%.
In 2013 we expect our effective tax rate to return to its normal level of about 36%.
The second nonrecurring item I'm going to highlight refers to the harmonization of internal accounting practices in connection with the implementation of a new ERP system.
Synchronizing these practices will provide consistency across our locations globally.
This resulted in nonrecurring adjustments primarily impacting cost of goods sold in the fourth quarter.
These adjustments substantially offset one another in total but were significant to the fourth quarter operating results of our 2 new packaging segments.
These adjustments increased fourth quarter operating profit for U.S.
Packaging by $13.8 million and decreased Global Packaging operating profit by $16.4 million.
In 2013 operating margins will return to normal levels.
These adjustments are also detailed in the footnote on Page 9 of today's earnings release.
For our fourth quarter results by segment excluding the increase in sales generated from acquisitions U.S.
Packaging sales declined 3.5% as compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Keep in mind that Food Packaging represents about 85% of U.S.
Packaging net sales.
During the fourth quarter of 2012 this segment benefited from increased unit sales volume of high barrier packaging which was more than offset by lower unit volumes of certain other products some of which are related to a reduction of capacity for low barrier packaging as part of the facility consolidation program.
Operating profit was up $34 million year-over-year in the fourth quarter as a result of the nonrecurring accounting benefit of $13.8 million as well as cost savings related to the facility consolidation and a better price cost match in 2012.
In fourth quarter for Global Packaging excluding the impact of currency and acquisitions sales increased 2.8% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
The Global Packaging business segment includes our packaging businesses outside of the U.S.
as well as our global medical and pharmaceutical packaging business which has operations in the U.S.
Europe South America and Asia.
Food packaging represents about 60% of sales for this segment and medical and pharmaceutical packaging represents about 20%.
In total unit volumes were lower in this segment and higher prices were the primary driver of increased organic sales in 2012.
Adjusted operating profit for the Global Packaging business segment included a nonrecurring charge of $16.4 million related to harmonization of accounting practices.
Taking this into account adjusted operating profit improved modestly compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 supported by price mix improvements.
Cost savings from the facility consolidation program were not significant since the Global Packaging segment facilities that were impacted were just closed during the fourth quarter.
In our third segment Pressure Sensitive Materials volume improvement in both label and technical product areas was partially offset by lower unit volumes and graphic product lines.
Price and sales mix declined compared to last year which more than offset the impact of higher unit volumes.
Adjusted operating profit improved reflecting our focus on prudent cost management in light of the challenging European economic environment.
The European market represents about 50% of our Pressure Sensitive Materials sales so improvement in that region would have a positive impact on our segment.
Now I'll cover the full year  results followed by the outlook for 2013.
In total the 3.4% decrease in net sales from 2011 to 2012 includes a 1.3% decrease in organic sales led by lower unit sales volumes.
As I mentioned before it is important to note that some of the volume decrease was planned due to facility consolidations in 2012.
Unit volume was lower in both U.S.
and Global Packaging business segments partially offset by improved sales mix.
Pressure Sensitive Materials enjoyed a modest increase in unit volumes in 2012 which was offset by sales mix.
Regarding our consolidated gross profit our margins increased in 2012 to 18.4% from 17.1% in 2011.
Sales mix improved in 2011 -- in 2012 and 2011 was negatively impacted by dramatic raw material price increases.
In 2012 we faced a more stable raw material environment.
Selling general and administrative expenses in 2012 were $23.3 million higher than in 2011 reflecting higher pension- and benefits-related expenses.
During 2012 adjusted operating profit as a percentage of net sales for our U.S.
Packaging segment improved to 13.4% from 11% in 2011.
Excluding the impact of nonrecurring harmonization adjustment 2012 adjusted operating profit for the Global Packaging segment would have been lower than 2011 levels due primarily to the impact of currency translation specifically with respect to the Brazilian real.
Currency translation remains a headwind for the first half of 2013 in Global Packaging since the real has depreciated versus the dollar.
But facility consolidation cost savings and sales mix improvement are expected to continue to have a positive impact on our return on sales in Global Packaging going forward.
Adjusted operating profit in the Pressure Sensitive Materials segment faced headwinds in 2012 from European currency exposure but careful cost management and direct response to production needs achieved improved performance in a challenging year.
Moving on to the statement of cash flows for 2012.
Cash provided by operating activities totaled $131 million for the fourth quarter bringing total cash flow provided by operating activities to $421 million.
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA at the end of the year was 2.1x right around our long-term target of 2.0x.
Finally regarding guidance for 2013 we expect total consolidated Bemis volumes to be about the same as in 2012.
We are expecting to continue to benefit from the commercialization of new business but it will take the full year to anniversary the recent plant closures.
We do expect this activity to promote modest sales mix improvements throughout 2013.
We are laser-focused on cash flow and disciplined use of our cash.
Even after payments for facility consolidation expenses in 2013 our goal is to increase cash generated from operations to over $430 million and we have plans to increase cash provided by operations to over $500 million in 2014.
For 2013 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $175 million and we expect interest expense to be just slightly less than in 2012 because interest expense in the first quarter of 2012 included interest on bonds that we have since refinanced with lower rate commercial paper.
As a percent of sales SG&amp;A in 2013 should be in the range of 9.5% to 10% consistent with 2012.
As I mentioned we expect our effective tax rate to be about 36% for the year.
Our adjusted earnings per share guidance for the first quarter of 2013 is $0.50 to $0.56.
Modest seasonality in our U.S.
Packaging segment has historically resulted in lower EPS levels in the first and fourth quarters of the year while the second and third quarters tend to be stronger.
For the full year 2013 considering the improvement in packaging sales mix and the incremental cost savings from the facility consolidation program partially offset by the anticipated impact of currency headwinds and stable volume levels we expect adjusted earnings per share to be $2.30 to $2.45 per share an increase of between 7% and 14% compared to 2012.
Now after that long lead-in I'll turn the call over to Henry for his comments on operations and business strategy.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
I would like to start by congratulating our business teams on a job well done in 2012.
As we started this year 12 months ago we faced a number of challenges.
We had to seamlessly transfer production and close 9 plant locations in 4 countries integrate our newly-acquired packaging business in China and aggressively manage cost in an environment of weak customer demand.
In the face of all these challenges our teams successfully transitioned business to new facilities and will cease production at the last 2 plants this quarter.
We have upgraded our sales mix in this weak volume environment.
At the same time our business teams are implementing best practices in every Bemis facility around the world using a global Bemis framework called World Class Operations Management.
In China we are expanding our converted capacity to accommodate growth as we leverage our global customer relationships.
While we expect overall volume weakness to continue into 2013 our customers are looking to packaging as a vehicle to increase their market share with consumers.
I would like to mention a few examples of the new products that we launched during 2012 that really showcase our technology and the value that our products bring to our customers.
Our recyclable rigid film solution for liquid packaging removes the environmentally unfriendly PVdC materials from packaging.
It is being commercialized for applications such as pudding yogurt and baby food products.
Our Peel Reseal technology provides a cost beneficial solution that uses a combination of our easy peel and pressure-sensitive adhesive technologies to provide easy open and reclosable features.
Our odor scavenging films for the poultry market are solving an issue that our lead customers have struggled with for decades.
Our microwavable films allow frozen sandwiches to be warmed in the microwave while maintaining the crispness of the bread.
And our polyester medical device packaging eliminates the need for extra packaging for knee replacements by using a polyurethane coating to protect the product from damage during distribution.
Our sales mix improvements reflect the increased percentage of sales of these and other high-performance packaging products.
As a result of these initiatives and some sales mix improvements in 2012 we increased our return on sales our return on invested capital and our cash flow from operations.
And we expect these metrics to continue to improve in 2013.
Following dramatic raw material cost increases in 2011 raw material costs were relatively tame in 2012.
As we enter 2013 we expect cost to increase modestly during the first quarter and remain steady for the remainder of the year.
Our guidance for the year incorporates these expectations as well as some currency headwinds during the first half of the year.
With the completion of our facility consolidation program and the closure of 9 packaging plants worldwide our manufacturing footprint better matches our long-term growth strategy around value-added packaging for food safety and sterility.
As Scott mentioned we have separated our businesses into 3 segments and I'd like to provide some additional color on each one.
Our U.S.
Packaging business is tied closely to the food industry in the United States and we expect it to reflect the same general trends.
The improvement and return on sales during 2012 is evidence of our prioritization of returns over unit volume.
Our facility consolidation program reduced our capacity for low barrier products providing us with the opportunity to weed out products that did not meet our return requirements.
Our Global Packaging business will reflect both food industry trends in emerging markets as well as the packaging needs of the global health care industry.
Our 2005 investment in Brazil and our 2011 investment in China have positioned us to supply the emerging consumer markets in these regions of the world.
Not only will these consumer markets grow on volume as the middle-class expands but we expect demands from consumers to be more complex increasing the need for packaging that delivers convenience food safety and sterility.
We will use our patented and proprietary technologies to respond to these emerging consumer demands upgrading our sales mix and profit margins in the process.
The emerging market exposure by Global Packaging business offers further margin improvement as our medical and pharmaceutical packaging product lines reach new consumers.
Our Pressure Sensitive Materials business is more closely tied to general economic conditions and at this point we expect performance in 2013 to be similar to 2012.
Improvement in the economic environment would benefit this segment by driving increased sales in higher margin graphic and technical products.
Our long-term strategy prioritizes expansion in the Asia Pacific region as well as the global growth of high-performance packaging technologies.
Our 2013 capital investments will support this strategy with additional printing and converting lines to expand our operations in Dongguan China and 3 9-layer blown film lines to support payment in North America Mexico and Brazil.
These blown film lines will expand capacity for high barrier products polyester sealants Peel Reseal technologies and our unique liquid packaging products.
We are confident that the performance improvements we attained in 2012 are sustainable and we have the assets the technologies and the resources that we need to continue these positive trends well into the future.
Now I'll open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Anthony Pettinari from Citi.
Research Division</strong> You referenced 3.5% organic decline in U.S.
Packaging with stronger growth in high barrier.
And I was wondering if you could quantify that with high barrier and then maybe the commodity businesses that you've shed in the quarter.
If you look at -- for the fourth quarter if you look at the refrigerated foods type of products in high barrier including meat and cheese dairy and liquids some of the dry food type items we had say added them all up maybe an increase of a couple of percent in those areas maybe roughly 2%.
I don't have them all combined.
Meat and cheese was up the most.
But then on the other side we had high single-digit or close to double-digit declines in volume in other areas like confectionery and snack some of the beverage products that we make some of the nonfood health and hygiene products as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And when you think about the full year when you think about North American demand for packaged foods and especially meat and cheese what's your kind of outlook and how should we think about the comps as we go through the year? Does the second half of the year become a little bit easier? Or how are you thinking about sort of packaged food demand in North America and meat and cheese specifically? North America generally we're expecting relatively flat volumes across all categories.
But our customers are optimistic that in the second half of 2013 volumes may start to show some support.
I think we feel relatively optimistic about meat and cheese and that optimism is tempered by the impact of the drought on the herd last year and the expected price increases in some of the protein categories.
But generally the high barrier product applications that we have been selling and new ones that we're introducing are continuing to drive growth and improvement in our sales and mix.
And we'll take our next question from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A quick question on -- Henry you mentioned higher return on sales higher ROIC in 2012 and then you also mentioned quite a few new products that were launched in 2012.
I was just wondering if you could sort of parse for us a little bit how much of the -- even if it's in big buckets how much of the improvement year-over-year return on sales was really driven by some of these new product introductions versus the exit of some of the low barrier packaging in North America? I believe that our return on sales improvement our return on invested capital not only comes just from some of these new products being launched but it also comes from taking market share and growing our market share with our core product lines where technology is important.
So I don't know if I can really split it out accurately but a substantial amount of our growth and return on sales and return on invested capital is just market share improvement in the products and the markets that we want to participate in.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I guess what I was trying to get at I just want to make sure you're getting paid for the innovation that you're bringing to the market and getting a higher price for the newer products versus the older products that are being replaced.
Is that typically the case? Oh I think that's typically the case.
That's kind of the standard curve.
When you introduce a new product you generally get a higher price.
And as more people copy it or it goes on with time it slowly decreases in margin.
But that's just the general curve.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just second on the Alcan contracts I think you were out in the market trying to renegotiate some of those resin pass-through price resin clauses especially with resin prices running up here in the first quarter.
Can you just give us a general update on that? Where you stand on renegotiating those contracts? We renegotiated a lot of contracts during 2012 some of the legacy Alcan contracts some of the legacy Bemis contracts.
In general we feel like we're on pretty stable footing right now and feel good about the price adjustment formulas that we've reached with our contract customers in the U.S.
And so we go into 2013 feeling like we're as well-positioned as we can be to be able to be insulated from the sharp short-term spikes in volatility that really hurt us back in early 2011.
And we'll take our next question from Ghansham Panjabi with Robert...
Research Division</strong> It's actually Mehul Dalia sitting in for Ghansham.
What drove the volume growth in Global Flexible Packaging during the quarter? And how did those volumes trend throughout 2012? I'm looking at -- in Global Packaging actually volume was modestly down for the quarter but price mix was up nicely.
And that's what drove the organic growth.
For the total year the trends were a little better.
We had a modest increase in volume and also in price mix.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how is North American Flexible Packaging trended in 1Q so far? Has there been any change in customer promotional activity in 2013? In 2013 I think it's early yet.
The first quarter's usually a slower quarter for us like the end of the fourth quarter and customers are usually ramping up their promotional activity in late February and March time frame to hit the spring buying season.
So it's kind of early in the first quarter to see any trends.
And we'll take our ask question from Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions around cash flow.
The CapEx here $175 million this year I know that's kind of where you started with your number last year and then it ended up coming down throughout the year.
Now this level is basically the highest level since 2007.
And I'm curious is this the new higher level or are there some kind of onetime projects here? And to the extent that there are some projects here and you've laid them on but I don't know if it's ongoing or just this year but what gives you the confidence that this year is the right year to be stepping up those investments versus the past 2 years? Sure.
For the last couple of years as you know we've come in below our original forecast for CapEx and really it's been for a couple of reasons.
One is that as our World Class Operations Management initiatives have borne fruit it's effectively created the capacity we need to continue to grow our new product productions.
And so we've been very disciplined and throttled back on CapEx whenever we can especially given the weakness in our end markets over these last couple of years.
The 2013 forecast we feel good about and there are a couple of specific investments that we're making around our high barrier film platforms in Latin America and growth in China as well as high barrier film in the U.S.
And so there's always a risk that we don't get all that money invested as fast as we'd like.
But I think at this point we feel like that's a better new normal range to expect.
Keep in mind our depreciation and amortization is around $200 million a year so we're still underspending D&amp;A which longer-term we think will be more in line.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then you talked about more return of cash to shareholders in the press release.
Obviously the dividend as a percent of your projected free cash flow is less than 50%.
So how do you think about the dividend today and what additional cash you might return to shareholders as we progress through this year? Should we -- might we start to see a ramp-up in buybacks in the back half of the year as the cash flow starts to come in? You should expect that we'll continue to increase the dividend every year as we've done for the last 30 and you should expect that we're going to be making share repurchase again in 2013.
We were out of the share repurchase market in 2012 as we were trying to pay down some debt repair leverage ratios.
But we are going to be continuing to manage that debt equity balance to make sure that we're doing everything we can to drive total shareholder return.
And we'll take our next question from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> If we take a step back just to help us understand because I know the parts you're moving there and certainly you guys are moving into more faster growing markets.
But I was just looking at the volumes the organic volumes say going back to '07 and it looks like that at least when we look at the non-Pressure Sensitive segment that used to exist that the volumes really never recaptured where we were even in '06.
And I wonder how -- first of all do you agree with that? It's slightly lower '12 than it was back then excluding the Alcan Americas business and a few of the other acquisitions.
And I was just wondering is it due to changes in how people -- in diets or could it be changes more in either your direct competitors or how maybe meats and cheeses and other foods are packaged? This is Melanie.
I think the -- you're right 2006 was a strong volume year.
2009 was also a very strong volume year as was part of 2008.
So I don't have the numbers in front of me to see what you're seeing with the change over those years.
But one of the things that impacts the way that we measure volume in square inches is the sales mix and the fact that over the last 6 years we have focused and invested more and more in high barrier packaging.
High-barrier packaging may sell for more dollars.
But if you're looking at volume and square inches these tend to be heavier larger items that have -- that are sold in fewer square inches than a monolayer polyethylene film that's more of a commodity item.
So over the last 6 years I think perhaps part of what you're seeing is the strategy of focusing more on the higher-margin high barrier products and lesser so on the growth of those commodity film areas.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And then hopefully you're getting paid for those improved lighter-weight substrates.
And then I guess the second question is as you do move overseas I know a couple of years ago you talked about moving out of some of the lower-end business that you were involved with in Europe I believe or more overseas that -- and as you move back into say China and expand in the overseas marketplace are you finding that with the emerging middle class that you're finding some of the stuff you get paid -- the products you get paid well for here translate into these other regions? Yes yes.
I think that since we acquired all of Dixie Toga in 2005 every year we see more and more technology products and that's why we're putting in the investment in additional 9-layer blown film lines into Brazil.
And in our acquisition that we were able to find in Mayor Packaging there's a lot of technology with our own stand-up pouches and around retort that we're going to be building out in that end of the world.
So we're starting to see the tick up and our investments are going into those areas to support that tick up in the technology products.
And we'll take our next question from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I think in the past you've talked about shortening the lag in the pass-through of the resin costs to the customers specifically I think you mentioned that on the Alcan contracts there was an opportunity to do that.
Can you update us on where you stand with that initiative? Alex as I mentioned before we feel good about entering 2013 with the right mix of price adjustment formulas in our contract portfolio with our customers in the U.S.
where we have customers.
Keep in mind about 2/3 of our customers in the U.S.
are on multiyear contracts with the price adjustment formula; 1/3 are just spot price agreements.
And outside of the U.S.
we don't have any contract exposure.
So we did a lot of work in 2012 trying to synchronize our price adjustment formulas with the current industry standards and the raw material volatility that we just can't burden.
And so we feel good about where we are at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question I may have missed this if you mentioned this.
Is there any update on how the FreshCase product is doing or has that been released into the marketplace? There is no major sales going on of our FreshCase products.
We are working with a number of customers.
We have some small applications that are out there and I don't think we're going to see much effect due to FreshCase in 2013.
But hopefully in 2014 we'll start to see the uptick as people get more accustomed to this packaging design.
And we'll take our next question from Philip Ng with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just want to get your take on what you're baking in for resin in your guidance.
The polyethylene is up about $0.05 in January.
Implicit in your guidance are you baking in the February increase that's been announced? I just want some color on the specialty grade as well.
What we baked into our guidance is the initial $0.05.
That's what's in our guidance.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And does that flow through in Q1 because you guys do have some FIFO inventory accounting adjustment? It's depending upon the division that we have.
Some of it will flow through late in the first quarter majority of it will flow through into the second quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just switching gears a little bit.
Can you talk a little bit more about your expansion strategy? I mean you're obviously adding capacity in China and Brazil.
How did margins and returns stack up? And do you have contracts in place that support volumes and just the returns on these projects? Most of our international sales or our global sales are not in some kind of a contract.
They're generally order by order on a spot basis.
And we'll take our next question from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Forgive me if I missed this how much of an earnings drag is embedded in your 2013 guidance from the recent increase in polyethylene prices? We haven't really quantified it in terms of EPS.
But as Henry just said we have baked into 2013 the $0.05 increase in PE that we're going to see here in the first part of the year.
That will largely show up in Q2.
And our guidance for 2013 assumes that beyond that the raw material environment is stable.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And Scott along those lines do you think that further increases in polyethylene are the biggest risk to meeting your guidance or do you still think that volume is the biggest risk? I think they both are.
But certainly we worry about raw material prices.
We feel better about our ability to pass those along to customers now than we did say 18 months ago.
But volume has been the big headwind for us over the last 12 months.
Our customers tell us that they're feeling more optimistic about volumes in the second half of 2013.
But we've really rightsized the company to be able to deliver these kinds of earnings the guidance that we've given today even if we don't get improvements in volumes in the second half.
I want to make a comment on the raw material increases.
It isn't that the raw materials are going to increase because we have pass-through applications.
And our presidents and our people are paid on earnings so they know they have to pass those through.
Where we get into problems this goes back into late 2010 and 2011 where every month you saw a drastic increase.
And it wasn't the ability to pass those increases on it was as soon as you pass those increases on you had another handful of them.
So it's not the ability to pass them through it's how they occur.
And we'll take our next question from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple.
First just a general housekeeping question if we can.
As we think about the new segments now the U.S.
Packaging and the Global.
Could you give us a sense within each one of those what the mix is between -- what you're selling in there? Is it between food? Between I guess you gave medical piece for other.
What the other components are there? A.
And then b within there what would you deem to be the mix of high barrier versus lower barrier within those? And potentially where that goes or what you think that would look like through time? Let me take a crack at that Chris.
I think for U.S.
Packaging which is our biggest segment about 85% of that business is packaging for food.
The -- there's a whole spectrum of high barrier to lower barrier and it's not possible just to break it into 2 and say "This is high and this is low." There's whole spectrum but there's a lot of technology and a lot of refrigerated food packaging in that 85% of U.S.
Packaging sales.
And that's where food safety is really a critical consideration of our customers and where we get paid for our technology.
In Global Packaging about 60% of our packaging is for food 20% is for medical and the other 20% is just other consumer products and applications.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So to be clear with respect to that I mean so when you're talking about the mix getting better with high barrier to monolayer et cetera type of stuff are we talking about -- obviously there's a pretty good margin disparity between the 2 pieces.
Is the U.S.
piece more like 80/20 as you look across the segment that's high barrier to low barrier? And the Global maybe the flip or something like that because obviously that's where you've talked about one piece gaining share  -- or not gaining share but one piece growing and one piece shrinking.
I'm just trying to get a sense as to how big each of those pieces are within those as to what could continue to a trip through time and which side you're continuing to grow if that makes sense.
Chris if you look at U.S.
Packaging and Scott's right it's very hard to draw a bright line between high barrier and low barrier because there's all this graduation in between them.
But if you look at U.S.
Packaging it's fair to say that about half of that 85% focused on food is refrigerated products.
Clearly refrigerated products clearly high barrier complex involves a lot of technology.
And then there's a graduation up to that 15% that is not food is low barrier no barrier type of products.
In the Global Packaging part of the business we would consider -- we would pretty much consider the whole medical device packaging business to be -- and pharmaceutical to be a high barrier technology sterility protection type of package so we would put that in the high barrier category.
And the other 60% that's food products it's not as -- it's a lower portion that would be high barrier.
A smaller exposure to meat and cheese smaller to a dairy and liquids type of thing.
So of that 60% well less than half would be the barrier refrigerated foods.
We do some refrigerated foods but they might not all be barrier.
And we'll take our next question from George Staphos of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate all the details in the presentation.
I guess I had a question maybe around the same topics that everyone else has been digging around in terms of margin how you get paid for your performance or your technology and the like.
If we look at the high barrier versus low barrier mix what are the reasons as you think about them to even be in the lower-barrier businesses since it's difficult to get paid or at least more difficult to get paid for them than say your high barrier.
I'm guessing some of it is around scale and purchasing but wanted to get a reaffirmation or update on that front.
I think George you hit on the 2 key things.
One is a lot of our consumer product companies package a broad spectrum and we really want to be seen with our key customers as being able to support their entire needs.
So some of it we just want to be in the game.
The other part is it helps us when we talk with our suppliers because of the overall volumes that we purchase.
So it's scale and purchasing power and support of our customers because we want to be seen as a total supplier to them.
Research Division</strong> And I know it's a difficult conversation to have.
And again we're not minimizing the progress that you've made in 2012.
You should be congratulated for the year.
But if your technology is as important as you say it is and it seems to be on the high barrier side doesn't that give you more leverage over time to go to your customers who value that and say "Listen folks we also need to get paid on our lower barrier if you need our higher barrier." How do you answer that questions? Well I think that's somewhat true.
As you get into the lowest part of our business the more competitive and the more competitors we have.
I think what's really the thing that we have to do is take our technology and drive new applications and new products that can compete with the people who don't have the technology base that we have so we bring something that differentiates us in these markets to our customers.
And we'll take our next question from Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
First some of the packagers some of the other packaging companies are reporting what sounds like a sharper than normal drop-off in volumes in the late fourth quarter.
Did you see that? Because it sounds like you saw a normal seasonal one but was there anything on top of that? No we didn't see any drastic change.
In fact we saw some pickups in what we would call our higher barrier.
Our meat cheese liquid markets coffee some of those areas that require the barrier products and the extended shelf life we saw a slight uptick.
As either what Scott or Melanie pointed out some of the other areas we saw some decreases but I don't have anything drastic to say.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
The second question I have is just a question about sort of margins in the Global business.
It sounds like what you're suggesting is kind of almost like a Trojan horse strategy where you're going to go into those markets initially with a lower margin product and then you're going to try to migrate upmarket as those economies expand and the demand for more sophisticated products goes up.
Is there anything that gives you confidence that that strategy will work? Because I think in some of these markets like China people see across the whole product range across the whole economic spectrum that margins have just tended to be depressed in that market.
That's a good question.
In our acquisition we moved in and acquired Mayor Packaging.
We didn't come in at the lowest level.
We didn't come in on a monolayer polyethylene where all it does is provide a dust cover for a shipment.
We came in at kind of a mid-level.
So we've got a good base.
We have technologies in there around retort we have technologies around in fitments and stand-up pouches.
So we come in kind of at the mid-level.
And then we can add longer-term our technologies to make the base films that -- and not just be a converter.
But we're coming in both with Dixie Toga and in China at a mid-level that protects us from some of the very low end just transportation or dust cover type materials.
And we'll take our next question from Stewart Scharf with S&amp;P Capital.
I'd like to know what percentage of your sales growth is coming from new products.
And do you have any target range going forward? We really don't report on sales of new products.
But what I can tell you is that our product portfolio is changing all the time.
And we are working with our customers both proactively and reactively as our customers keep a pretty continuous velocity of new product introductions.
And so it's an important part of our business but we don't really quantify it.
Okay.
And then what's your capital capacity utilization rate right now? About 85%? That's a good guess.
That's a good assumption.
It's going to vary depending by which division or which market but 85% is a reasonable point.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time we will take a follow-up question from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two last follow-ons.
Henry and Scott when you look at your key markets and customers and what's been very slow to declining volume environment the last couple of years what do you think has happened? What are your customers telling you has happened in terms of ultimate consumer takeaway? Are you feeling perhaps that some of the growth there is that Flexible Packaging used to have or may be being blunted by other packaging substrates? Is it just purely an economic factor? I ask the question because 1 year ago again you had good performance overall for 2012.
You had been expecting a pickup in volume in the second half of the year and it didn't materialize and just the consumer didn't take away.
So what are your updated views on that? And then I had a follow-on.
I think that overall our customers and you've heard a lot of them talk have been down 3% 4% in their volumes and that people are just being more cautious in the economic climate.
What I don't agree is the opportunities for Flexible Packaging to grow.
If you want to just take a look -- just walk down the baby aisle once and everything used to be in jars and cans and now it's in flexible pouches.
There's new products being introduced.
I got a grandson who goes buys all these things and you squeeze them and they're berry mixes.
You can see the conversion going on in cans and jars to flexible packaging.
You see people wanting more extended shelf life.
I think what you see is really I could identify with the mix we have.
We're growing those areas where we provide extended shelf life food safety and sterility and the fall out that we're having is partially I think because our customers and the economic and a little bit that we've made some tough decisions here over the course of 2012 and how much of that business we want to take on in our factories and how much capital we want to put towards it.
Research Division</strong> So from your vantage point it's the fact that consumers are being a bit more cautious and then you've made the decided walk-away decision and that's affected your volume? It's not so much the market as you see it? I agree with that what you just said.
Okay.
The other question I had is around Terre Haute.
If we go back a long time ago when you had the old reporting format and polyethylene was a big focus of the company Terre Haute was a massive facility probably still is.
How has Terre Haute been affected by what's been perhaps a tougher performance tougher margin environment over the last several years? Is it fully loaded? Is it loaded like you'd like? George I'll let Henry or Scott add in after I give you a couple of facts with regard to Terre Haute.
The Terre Haute facility is a very large facility you're right and it focuses on the lower-barrier areas of the business.
But they are very good at managing manufacturing costs.
They've implemented World Class Operations Managements which Henry and Scott talks about extensively and benefited in 2012 from the transition of production from some of these other plants that we closed where we had substantial amounts of volume moving in there.
So the plant is a valuable asset and it's running very well.
The only other thing I'd add to that George is we continue to see growth in multipacks and the shrink bundling film.
So that growth helps to support and grow the Terre Haute facility.
And we'll take our next follow-up question from Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Henry just one that you probably will have to answer carefully but just I'd like to get your general thoughts.
There's a Pressure Sensitive transaction announced this morning.
Will that have any effect on your business that you can think of? Mark it's Scott.
That will not have any real effect on our business.
The Avery divestiture was a product area that -- where we don't compete.
And so that's really not going to affect our business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It looked like it was more kind of converted office products which is not a market that you're in.
I didn't know whether the label side of the business had any impact.
No no it should have no impact on us.
And we'll take a follow-up question from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just one question how would you characterize the nature of the competition in your high barrier packaging areas in North America? And have you noticed any recent changes in that regard? What I'm trying to get at is how you managed to gain share in some of these higher value businesses that you're in? I think we have some very good competitors in our high barrier area.
They have their products we have our products and I think it's just an overall congratulations to our R&amp;D and our development teams that they're able to solve problems and provide solutions that our customers are looking for faster than our competition.
[Operator Instructions] It appears there are no further questions in the queue.
Thank you operator.
That ends our conference call for today.
And we will be out visiting lots of investors over the next several months on the road and a number of conferences and meetings so we look forward to seeing most of you then.
This concludes today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Bemis First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
This call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Vice President and Treasurer for Bemis Company Ms.
Melanie Miller.
Ms.
Miller please go ahead.
Thank you.
Welcome to our first quarter 2013 conference call.
Today is April 25 2013.
After today's call a replay will be available on our website www.bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are Bemis Company's President and CEO Henry Theisen; and our Vice President and CFO Scott Ullem.
Today Henry will begin with comments on the performance for the quarter followed by Scott with comments on the financial statements and outlook for the year.
[Operator Instructions] On today's call we will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures as we talk about Bemis' performance.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures we consider most comparable can be found in the press release and supplemental schedules on our corporate website under Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'd like to remind everyone that statements regarding future performance of the company made in this teleconference are forward-looking and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors including currency fluctuations changes in raw material cost and availability industry competition unexpected costs associated with information systems changes in customer order patterns our ability to pass along increased costs in our selling prices unexpected costs related to our facility consolidation efforts interest rate fluctuations and regional economic conditions.
A more complete list of risk factors that's included in our regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012.
Now I'll turn the call over to Henry Theisen.
Good morning.
I am pleased to report that this quarter we achieved record first quarter adjusted earnings per share continuing the momentum that we started in 2012.
Our improving performance reflects the benefits of our 2012 facility consolidation program the initiatives we have implemented to optimize and leverage our scale and the overall improvement of sales mix as we commercialize new business in our higher-margin product areas.
Our facility consolidation program includes the closure of 9 locations and the consolidation of production into our remaining 74 plants.
Eight of the 9 locations have been closed with the last one expected to close during the second quarter.
With 8 of the 9 plants closed and most of the cost eliminated we still expect to deliver total program cost savings of $45 million in 2013 which represents an incremental $37 million of operating profit compared to 2012.
The total estimated cost of the facility consolidation program has not increased and we will continue to highlight those costs separately in our financial statements to provide you with adjusted results that better reflect the trends of the ongoing business.
The first quarter of the year is normally one of the slowest per unit volume and this year was no exception.
While customer orders were strong throughout the quarter shipments did not accelerate as they normally would in late March.
We believe that the coolest spring weather in many parts of the U.S.
slowed the start of the normal seasonal sales increase.
In Latin America we have seen year-over-year declines in packaging volumes as the market adjust to a slower growing economy.
We are uniquely positioned in this region to participate in the growth and modernization of this emerging economy and we are making capital investments in 2013 to establish high-barrier capacity in both the Brazilian and Mexican markets.
In Europe our packaging sales have leveled off after several years of decline.
Our unit sales volumes and market pricing are consistent with last year and the focus for 2013 is to improve profitability in this region.
Our business in Asia continues to develop creating capacity to serve niche markets in China as well as offering a standup pouch platform for global customers.
We expect our global sales mix to continue to improve in 2013 as we have taken the opportunity created by the facility consolidation program to reduce sales of lower-margin packaging while commercializing new business in higher-margin applications.
In our Pressure Sensitive Materials business segment our North American operations are performing while our European operations continue to struggle with local economic conditions.
The European products are focused primarily on advertising and display markets which have weakened compared to last year.
For Bemis in total we continue to expect unit volumes to be flat with unit volume levels in 2012.
Looking toward the rest of 2013 and thereafter our focus is on improving operating profit and return on invested capital while diligently pricing our products and prudently managing cost.
We expect the completion of the facility consolidation program.
We expect to generate substantial improvement in operating cash flow.
Now I'll turn the call over to Scott for his comments on the financial results.
Thanks Henry good morning everyone.
Today I'll go through the consolidated and segment financial details of this quarter's results.
There's also supplemental financial information on our website near the link to this webcast.
This quarter we reported adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.53 8% ahead of last year's first quarter and in line with our first quarter guidance.
This improved performance was primarily driven by cost savings from the facility consolidation program.
It is important to note that this quarter's effective tax rate of 31% is an annual anomaly and did not contribute any extra tax benefit to our operating profit net income or EPS.
I will explain why just as we did last year.
In a prior acquisition Bemis assumed a potential non-U.S.
tax liability from a seller.
And the seller completely indemnified us in the event that tax liability is ever realized.
The seller's indemnification is reflected in a non-tax-deductible receivable which we reversed in this first quarter because the potential tax liability was not realized.
The reversal of the liability provided a $4.5 million reduction in our tax expense.
At the same time we reversed the related $4.5 million non-tax-deductible receivable.
So pretax income was $4.5 million lower and tax expense was $4.5 million lower and net income and EPS were unchanged.
Turning to our segment results beginning with the U.S.
Packaging.
Net sales decreased 2.5% due principally to volume declines in over-wrap for beverage applications as well as diaper and tissue products.
This effect was partially offset by higher unit sales volumes in packaging for meat and cheese as well as dairy and liquid products.
As Henry mentioned weather played a part in some of the volume weakness that we experienced in certain markets and we also reduced our exposure to low margin sales volume through the selective transfer of production during our facility consolidation.
Other volume levels were consistent with our expectations for the first quarter.
Adjusted operating margins for U.S.
Packaging increased to 12.8% of sales compared to 11.7% of sales in the first quarter of last year.
This increase is primarily attributable to the cost savings from our facility consolidation program.
In the Global Packaging segment net sales excluding the impact of currency was equal to the first quarter of 2012.
Comparing the results in this segment the impact of lower unit volumes in our Latin American operations was completely offset by increases in our selling prices.
The other significant part of our global segment is our Medical Packaging business which achieved higher sales compared to the first quarter of last year.
Sales mix in this segment was relatively unchanged.
Excluding the impact of currency adjusted operating margin for Global Packaging was consistent with the first quarter of 2012.
In our Pressure Sensitive Materials segment sales declined during the first quarter due to lower sales of higher-margin graphic and technical products.
Graphic products are generally more sensitive to economic conditions since they are sold into advertising and display markets.
In addition since about half of this business segment is sold into the European market the ongoing weakness in that region represents a significant business challenge.
Turning back to the consolidated income statement gross margin was 19.3% slightly ahead of the 19.1% gross margin achieved in the first quarter and the fourth quarter of 2012.
As we discussed last quarter the improvement reflects some cost savings from the facility consolidation in addition to overall sales mix improvements in our U.S.
Packaging segment.
Selling general and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales increased modestly driven by lower sales levels.
Going forward we expect SG&amp;A dollar spending to be stable.
And therefore the ratio to net sales to decrease as unit sales volumes improve.
Other operating income and expense included $2.9 million of fiscal government incentive income compared to $5.2 million for the first quarter of 2012.
Fiscal government incentives are associated with net sales and manufacturing activities in Brazil and are included in Global Packaging segment operating profit.
Turning now to the statement of cash flows.
Cash flows from operations were $8.4 million reflecting the $100 million increase in working capital and about $11 million of facility consolidation related payments.
An increase in working capital during the first quarter is normal due to the inventory buildup as we head into our seasonally strong second and third quarters.
And we expect this working capital build to decrease during the second quarter.
The increase in debt financed working capital was also reflected in our higher ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA.
During the first quarter we increased our quarterly dividend payment for the 30th consecutive year.
In addition we repurchased 1 million shares of Bemis common stock to offset the impact of long-term stock incentive programs.
This leaves us with the remaining authorization for share repurchases of 3.5 million shares.
We continue to expect 2013 cash flow from operations to be approximately $430 million after giving effect to facility consolidation related payments of about $50 million and about $40 million of pension contributions.
Disciplined allocation of cash flow is critical to our strategy and we will deploy cash to support our dividend program invest in capital projects that enhance profits and returns fund strategic acquisitions and balance share repurchases with deleveraging.
Our guidance for adjusted earnings per share for the full year 2013 remains at $2.37 to $2.45.
This guidance assumes that currencies which impact our global operations remain at the current levels; that raw material costs are stable and that unit sales volume levels are consistent with 2012.
Our guidance for the second quarter of 2013 is $0.57 to $0.63 per share reflecting our normal seasonally stronger second quarter volumes.
For the remaining 3 quarters we expect the effective tax rate to be approximately 35.3%.
And now we'd like to open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W Baird.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could quantify the exit of the lower margin business from a topline perspective? And also Henry who's picking up the share.
I mean you guys are one of the bigger players in the industry and if it's not as profitable for you I can't imagine it's profitable for others.
So is it private companies that are typically picking this up? The biggest volume that we exited were really in the Global Packaging segment.
We closed 3 facilities that are not related to food they're into things like folding cartons.
And that is just volume that exited our system because it doesn't -- it just didn't make any sense any longer.
That's where the majority of it is.
The amount of business that we would -- in the U.S.
Packaging segment that didn't stay with us was minimal.
It was just 1 or 2 smaller accounts and it was minimal.
Most of that business did transfer and it did transfer at higher pricing.
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of the working capital increase in the first quarter I guess it's normal from a seasonal standpoint but it's still quite a bit higher than was last year even with volumes down.
Was any of the build given the pending closure at last facility also? Yes.
Our build -- we have the normal amount of build that occurs going into our busy season for the second and third quarter.
And then we also -- as we transferred this down and we're going to be closing our last facility in the second quarter we had to build volumes at each one of these stages so that we could transfer the material without causing the customer any concern.
So it's a combination of both.
And we should expect to see the amount that was built in there for facility consolidation to go away in the second quarter.
We'll take our next question from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could just talk a little bit about the U.S.
Packaging business.
A little bit about the grocery products that were impacted by the cool weather that you mentioned later in March I think it's what you mentioned.
Scott we generally see and I've been here since 1976.
At the end of March you generally see a kind of surge in sales and that surge is related to the summer -- the winter season turning to the summer season.
You see it in -- we saw it in paper bag for charcoals.
We saw it in our meat business the things you would normally grill like hotdogs and sausages on a grill.
We saw it in our bakery business with hamburger buns and hotdog buns.
We saw it in our bundling of shrink films for drinks.
We saw it generally across the entire board.
Everyone of our major product lines that you would associate with the summer season we didn't see that surge in the last couple of weeks of March.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you talked a little bit about improving the profitability in your European business.
Is that more around what we've been talking about getting rid of this lower-margin business? Or is it more of a cost-focused? Can you just talk a little bit more about how you're going to improve the profitability in the European business? Well we closed 1 facility late last year.
And that will help our profitability.
The other is we're going to be concentrating now on more niche products more niche markets and we're going to be concentrating and putting extra emphasis on our continuous improvement programs that we have in the European continent.
We'll take our next question from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> What steps are you taking to address the declines in Brazil such that that region doesn't remain a drag on results at the extent it was? We have 2 things.
During the course of last year we exited the folding carton business in box set folding cartons which is a big chunk of our Dixie Toga operations.
The second thing is we passed through price increases in the first quarter that were substantial.
Research Division</strong> So you don't expect Brazil to be a drag in the subsequent 3 quarters? I do not.
I expect Brazil to be a good part of our company.
I expect it to make its profit and plans.
And I expect it to do well.
We'll take our next question from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> This is kind of a high-level question but if we look at the incremental improvement that we should expect from the facilities consolidation $37 million it looks like it's about $0.23 a share and it looks like your guide is for I guess for a $0.15 to $0.30 improvement when you consider $2.15 being the operating number for last year.
So it's almost substantially all of the improvement and given the absence of such a plan for next year should would we expect some of the business shifts you're talking about going to more niche markets and higher-end markets will sort of drive the growth next year and could it match the growth that we expect to see in EPS this year? I -- if you look at what's going on in our business the areas that we really want to grow are high-barrier and our food safety sterility our medical device business.
Those businesses continue to show growth.
And I expect next year because of the investments we're putting in this year we'll continue to have more growth.
And as you look down at the chain of the new product lines and the new markets -- the new products that we're offering those should see growth.
So I expect the areas that we want to be in are going to show growth this year and next year.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And as a quick follow-up.
Are the markets you're moving more into that are showing that growth how do you feel the competitive landscape is versus some of the more traditional markets that aren't as specialized? Do you feel there -- you guys have a more unique position? Are they more consolidated areas where there is less -- fewer players? Or is that not the case? If you look at the markets that you'd want to call commodity really where the packaging is a delivery system or it does cover.
There are numerous small competitors in that marketplace and it's very fragmented and it's very competitive.
As you move up the chain into food safety and sterility where a person can get sick if it isn't done properly there's more technology in the film there's more complexity in the film there's fewer players and it is less competitive than the dust cover.
And there's a risk for customers to move the business.
We'll take our next question from Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is John Royall sitting in for Phil this morning.
So it sounds like you expect volumes to improve for the rest of the year to get yourself back to flat.
Is that all going to be in high-barrier? Or is there also going to be some growth in low-barrier? I think there will be growth in high-barrier growth in our medical device pharma sector and pretty much flat in the low-barrier area.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And can you give us a -- some sort of the sense for the impact of resins in your 2Q guidance? The resin has been pretty stable this year.
You had a nickel going in early in the year.
I think you have $0.04 going towards the end of the year.
Those are -- that type of magnitude going in is not going to affect our business at all.
We will pass through as we normally do in our escalator-deescalator contracts.
This is not a significant number and it's going to impact us at all.
We'll take our next question with -- from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Let me start with -- when we look at kind of business wins-losses things of that nature in the quarter you guided that in the year that things will be essentially flat.
And again appreciating that I don't have the same 10-year perspective as you do Henry but at least in the last decade those that I have been covering the company there seems to be a constant churn if you will of picking up more high-barrier business shedding more low-barrier business.
So my question has kind of 2 parts.
One as we look out over the next couple of years do we reach a point where we finally shed all of the low-barrier business we intend to or this always be an ongoing exercise that essentially gets us to flat? Number 1.
And #2 as you sit today what is the rough mix of business as you think about it whether it's in the global piece or in the U.S.
piece that you would better high-barrier stuff versus more commodity like low-barrier stuff? Well we want to take the low-barrier part of the business.
I think that will be relatively flat.
It won't be a growth item that will be flat for us.
There'll be constant churn in that.
The reason we exist in that business is almost of our key customers have businesses that are in that area.
They have a mix of business that would fall in the high-barrier.
They have a mix of business falls in the low barrier.
I think it's important to be able -- to be a full-line supplier to our key customers.
I also believe that those volumes of resins and things are important in our negotiations with our suppliers.
So we do not want to totally exit that.
We want to control our investments and I think it will be rather a flat part of our business for the near future.
I think you'll see our growth coming in those high-barrier.
And our growth will also come in the medical device and pharma.
And finally we've made investments last couple of years ago for Mayor Packaging in China and we continue to make investments into our Dixie Toga our Latin America business in global to move into high-barrier and take advantage as their economies change.
So I think you're going to see some good international growth.
So our growth are really going to be internationally in all kinds of areas.
And here in the U.S.
Packaging more on the high-barrier and the medical device pharma sector.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then the other part of my question was how do you look at the mix in those businesses today? So we have a sense as to what piece is flattish and what piece should be growing.
I'm not sure I really understand the question.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well so for example if in your global businesses is half of it high barrier and half of it...
Okay.
I understand.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just that I get a sense of what piece might be flat and what piece is growing? So I can think about my own assumptions for net business wins or losses the next few years? I think our U.S.
business -- U.S.
Packaging is roughly 60% in high-barrier area.
I think it's different in the global business.
And I put our high-barrier sector more into that 40% 30% or the 40% area.
They kind of flip-flop each other.
We'll take our next question from Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I was just curious -- kind of a three-part question here.
What are your current operating rates across your portfolio? And then what are you seeing kind of quarter-to-date in your volumes? And then I think last quarter you mentioned that most of your customers seemed fairly optimistic about 1/2 do? And I'm just wondering if that's still the sense that you're getting.
I'll take the first part about our capacities.
Because I think we did a very -- I think our operating guys did a very good job of planning the restructuring and what pieces they were going to move and where were they going to move and what equipment they would maintain and move.
So I think we've had excellent execution by our operating people.
And we operate the best roughly in the mid-80% -- 85% capacity give or take a little.
If you go above that and you get near 90% you have problems servicing your customers.
If you get down below 80% you have problems covering your fix cost.
I think we're in an excellent position with the planning our operating guys did to be right in that right window around mid-80s.
And net volumes quarter-to-date like April volume.
Research Division</strong> Visibilities that you have.
Our volumes to date here in the month of April put us on plan.
I think they're consistent with what you normally expect to see in April.
We'll take our next question from Todd Wenning with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Your R&amp;D spend this quarter was slightly above historical trend.
Is that one-off? Or should we expect that pace to continue going into the rest of the year? I think that we're putting an emphasis on R&amp;D.
We've -- it's one of our key strategies.
Innovation.
I think we have the best innovation pipeline and the best R&amp;D group that operate in our space and we're going to continue to invest in that.
I think you're going to see us continue to spend more and more because it's a key part of our growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on PSM how are you finding the competitive landscape in the U.S.
market? And what will it take to improve margins going into the rest of the year? Well it's certainly a competitive landscape in the U.S.
and even more so in Europe.
The U.S.
business is actually pretty stable and trending to be more attractive for us.
Our real headwinds and challenge in pressure sensitive are in Europe and are really directly tied to the macro economic conditions that we're facing in the key countries where we compete.
We'll take our next question Al Kabili with Macquarie.
I guess the first one is on the emerging markets.
If you can talk about as you expand there in high-barrier do you get kind of similar margins on those products as you would in the U.S.? I think you get very similar margins.
They're not better but they're similar in those high-barrier areas.
I wish we had a lot more of them.
Yes fair enough.
And along those lines do you think the expansion in emerging markets plus the cost savings you're getting this year will that -- do you think that's enough to offset sort of ongoing weakness in Europe and your guidance to hold sort of global packaging earnings flat through the balance of the year? Or the challenges in Europe kind of near term will continue to overwhelm these factors? Well I think as we put out we maintain our guidance for the year $2.30 to $2.45.
I think that our business both in U.S.
Packaging and in Global Packaging will more than offset the European struggle.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is regarding your overall.
Now over the last number of years the company had difficulty in Europe both within flexible packaging also within pressure sensitive material.
It sounds like that was the biggest reason why your results were a little bit less positive than your larger competitor who reported yesterday.
Henry would there be any ability or notion to perhaps hiving off the European operations at some point because it's not just this quarter they've struggled for a number of years even in better economic times.
If you agree with that premise help me understand what the puts and takes are there and then I have a separate unrelated question.
In the Flexible Packaging business we're still a small player.
It's not that significant part of our business.
Our customers are there.
And I think it's important when our customers are there for us to maintain a presence.
Certainly isn't something that we want to go out and invest greatly in right now but I think it's important to be there for our customers.
And that affects our overall sales on a global basis.
And that's why we need to be there.
Research Division</strong> And what about Pressure Sensitive Materials just -- that was part of my first question.
George your question on Pressure Sensitive is it Europe specifically? Research Division</strong> Well yes again Pressure Sensitive in Europe has been not performing at the level if I recall correctly as your U.S.
operations for a while.
Would there be any ability to split that from the portfolio over time without impairing the business on a global basis? Well look there's no reason to split the two.
There's a lot of synergy between Europe and the U.S.
for Pressure Sensitive Materials business.
And I think that business is actually performing very well given the lousy conditions where they're operating.
And our Pressure Sensitive business in Europe is especially weighted towards graphics markets where marketing and advertising spend has just been down severely and we're doing I think a pretty good job of hanging on until we reach the same kind of stability that we've now gotten to in our Flexible Packaging business in Europe.
We'll take our next question from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick follow-ups.
One for you Scott.
Capital allocation the balance of the year.
I saw you did some repurchase here during 1Q.
What's the intent with your free cash flow the balance of the year? If memory serves I was thinking you were trying to move down a little lower on a debt-to-EBITDA basis but I'm not sure what the target.
Can you help us a little with allocation the balance of the year? Yes sure.
The repurchase in the first quarter was really directed at offsetting the dilutive effects of long-term incentive stock compensation and so that's what we've tackled in the first quarter.
Over the rest of the year you're right.
The long-term debt-to-EBITDA target which is how we think about leverage principally is around 2x.
I think just the reduction of working capital as we get into our seasonally stronger quarters is going to bring down that leverage metric and so I think we'll do what we've been doing historically and focus very carefully on first investing in production and markets where we can get superior returns and profits.
Second funding episodically and strategic acquisitions.
Obviously continuing with the dividend payment is #1.
And I would just balance share repurchase and deleveraging.
And I think we're going to continue to be active in the share repurchase arena because we'll have excess cash and it's an important part of giving back capital to shareholders.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then the second question -- the follow-up I had was price cost recognizing timing of some of your mechanisms and things that work through and timing of some of the resin increases we did see.
How would you look at -- with respect to revenue you give us now an organic number in the slide to show us what volumes were but I do appreciate that some of that has to do with pricing and things as well.
Is there a way to help us on split out? What -- within our organic growth decline number would be attributable to price? And what would be more core organic absolute volume levels? I can help a little bit with that as you look at the components of change in net sales that we included and also essentially seeing the same commentary that Scott included in his discussion earlier.
U.S.
packaging organic growth essentially declined 2.5% most of that was related to volume.
There was a little bit net improvement in price mix but most of that decline is volume related in U.S.
packaging.
In Global Packaging there's very little change on an organic basis.
If you look at that it's a decline of less than 1%.
That reflects high single-digit decrease in volume offset by almost an equivalent increase in price mix mostly driven by increases in price.
And as Henry talked about that's been the approach to the Latin American market in particular.
In the Pressure Sensitive side volume was pretty flat in Pressure Sensitive so most of that -- the decline represents 3.6% decrease in price mix mostly driven by mix because of the reduction in sales of graphics and technical products.
And stability are increased in the sales in global.
We'll take our next question from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Henry I just wanted to follow up on your previous comment on the emerging market margins.
You said they were similar on the high-barrier product to North America.
I just -- I think the last call we talked about the strategy in the emerging market maybe it was the global markets was to come in at a lower price point and eventually work your way up in the margin structure.
Can you just parse the two? What the strategy is? And maybe the high barrier is still at the same margin but you're not selling as much of it? Can you just...
I remember that from the last quarter.
We talked about -- or maybe it was 2 quarters ago.
We've talked about our acquisition of Mayor Packaging.
We've been following and wondering when we should enter the China market and do more in Asia-Pacific region.
And until we found Mayor Mayor really is in the retort and I kind of call that the median barrier.
It's above the dust cover.
It's got some technology it is -- that was a place where we could enter the market avoid the dust cover commodity fighting with everybody have some technology around printing laminating surviving the retort chamber and to build on that as the Chinese market goes up as they move from the wet market to prepackaged meats as they go into more refrigerated products and things like that.
So we found a spot to enter that I want to call median barrier and we have a chance to build on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Scott could you go walk us back through the last part of the issue with the tax how it doesn't impact EPS? I didn't quite understand the last part of the math there.
Sure.
Let me just take you through it.
In a prior acquisition we picked up a non-U.S.
tax liability from a seller for activities prior to the acquisition.
The seller indemnified Bemis completely in the event that there's ever any tax payment required.
And so we booked a receivable in the -- from the seller that we would recognize in the event that we ever have to pay the tax.
So because -- in this annual review on the first quarter we determined that there was no tax liability realized we also had to reverse that receivable.
The effect was $4.5 million reduction in pretax income because we reversed the receivable and a corresponding $4.5 million reduction in our tax expense.
So the net of that and because the receivable was non-tax deductible when we reversed it the net of that was 0 impact to net income and EPS.
Obviously all of this was below the operating profit line so no impact to operating profit either.
And we wanted to walk through it early in this call because I think there was some confusion in some of the early notes we saw this morning.
And the fact is just like last first quarter and just like next year's first quarter when we have to talk about this again it will not impact net income or EPS.
We'll take our next question from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> You talked about expecting a generally stable raw material cost environment this year.
Obviously recently oil and nat gas have moved in different directions.
So I'm just wondering what gives you confidence that there won't be much movement in resin over the balance of the year? This comes from conversations we have with our suppliers.
It comes from conversations there.
Things that we follow and the literature.
We don't see a big push in raw material feedstocks.
Earlier in the year there were numerous outages or scheduled maintenance in some of the cracker facilities.
Those have come up successfully so that capacity is back online.
And there just doesn't seem to be a big growth momentum anywhere in the globe for the basic polymers.
And that's just our thoughts whatever our thoughts are.
Research Division</strong> And have commodity and specialty move in similar directions recently Henry? No.
I would say the commodities -- we've got a slight increase in PE first part of the year and now it's been stable since then.
And our higher or more sensitive materials have been flat through the year.
We'll take a follow-up from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Follow-on you may have talked about this earlier.
I've been bouncing between conference calls today.
One are you at the full run rate right now in terms of the cost saves related to your realignment on a run rate basis again? And then my other question would be to the extent that you haven't already covered it what are your customers saying about the health of the consumer and the likelihood that they are coming back and opening up their wallets at the retail level? We've seen some improvement now for a couple of months since some of the Nielsen data in packaged foods.
Hopefully that bodes well for you.
But are your customers seeing an improvement as well? Or are they a little bit more cautious on the outlook? First as far as the run rate on the restructuring.
We should be at the full run rate at the end of the second quarter.
As I said earlier we still have 1   facility to close here.
So at the end of the second quarter we should be at the run rate.
As far as our customers and what they're telling us we expect to see an uptick in the second half the year in our volumes.
What our customers are telling us is kind of a mixed bag.
Some are saying that there's going to be an uptick.
Some are a little more cautious.
There's really no firm pattern in discussions we have with our customers.
It's really kind of a mixed bag.
And we'll take our next question from Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Guys hopped on the call a little late.
I apologize if you touched upon this already.
You guys have done your part to be more proactive on pricing and resetting some of this below-market contracts and one of your larger competitors have been pretty vocal about that on that front as well.
Have you seen any real behavior in the marketplace? And is there opportunity for you to get real some pricing in excess of your passthrough right now going forward? I know what you're talking about and we compete really in the small areas generally less than 5% of our business.
And we just -- it was really in the fresh meat area.
We really don't see any evidence of that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
What about your business? I know you guys have been trying to get some -- get pricing more in line for Legacy Alcan.
But is there an opportunity for you to get some more real pricing on top of that for the rest of your business going forward? I think there is.
We understand the value of our pricing.
We have numerous programs.
And as I said we're going to diligently price our products.
We're going to look through our portfolio.
We're going to find out where we're being compensated and where we're adding value.
And we're going to be very very diligent in our pricing going forward.
And it appears there are no further phone questions at this time.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
We'll hopefully see you sometime during the quarter at the conferences.
This does conclude today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Bemis Company hosted Bemis Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I am pleased to turn the conference over to Ms.
Melanie Miller.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you operator.
Welcome to our second quarter 2013 conference call.
Today is July 25 2013.
After today's call a replay will be available on our website www.bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are Bemis Company's President and CEO Henry Theisen; and our Vice President and CFO Scott Ullem.
Today Scott will begin with comments on the financial statements and outlook for the year followed by Henry with comments on the performance of the quarter.
After our comments we will answer any questions you have.
[Operator Instructions] On today's call we will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures as we talk about Bemis' performance.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures we consider most comparable can be found in the press release and supplemental schedules on our corporate website under Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'd like to remind everyone that statements regarding the future performance of the company made in this teleconference are forward-looking statements and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors including currency fluctuations changes in raw material costs and availability industry competition unexpected costs associated with the information systems changes in customer order patterns our ability to pass along increases in our selling prices unexpected costs related to plant-closing activities interest rate fluctuations and regional economic conditions.
A more complete list of risk factors is included in our regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012.
Now I'll turn the call over to Scott Ullem.
Thanks Melanie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today we reported adjusted diluted earnings of $0.61 per share for the second quarter in line with our guidance of $0.57 to $0.63.
In addition to our press release this quarter's updated supplemental schedules are available on our website bemis.com under the Investor Relations tab.
The supplemental schedules provide more detail relating to the 2 adjustments we made this quarter to our GAAP earnings per share and segment operating profit.
First net charges of $20.9 million associated with the facility consolidation program relate to the closure of the 9 facilities the last of which ceased production in the month of May.
While the facilities have all been closed there is a delay in when we can record certain charges.
So we expect to report small-related adjustments to our GAAP earnings in Q3.
We are still on budget for total charges relating to the program.
Second non-GAAP excludes a $5.9 million gain on the sale of Clysar a non-core business.
The net of these 2 adjustments brings us to our non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.61 a 13% increase over last year's second quarter results.
The other supplemental schedule available on our website provides some details of the change in net sales for Bemis in total and by business segment.
This quarter we have added a line to the supplemental schedule called optimization effect.
This reflects the impact of those sales that we walked away from in conjunction with the facility consolidation program during the past 18 months.
Essentially optimization effect represents sales that were at lower margins than we considered acceptable to support the cost of moving the production to another facility.
When we take out the optimization impact of the business for which we discontinued production the performance of the core business is shown as organic and is our version of same-store sales.
Our sales in the second quarter came in about where we expected they would.
Organic sales grew 1.2% and the optimization effect of business we shedded reduced sales by 2%.
The translation of sales outside the U.S.
in weaker non-dollar currencies reduced sales another 0.5%.
Net of these items and of acquisitions and divestitures our sales in Q2 were down 1.2% compared to 2012's second quarter.
To provide more color on the growth in our core business now I'll go through the detail of our 3 business segments.
Both of our packaging segments generated positive organic growth.
In the U.S.
Packaging business segment which represents about 60% of our annual net sales second quarter organic sales increased 1.4% over 2012.
The optimization effect of business we walked away from reduced sales by 1.7% compared to last year.
In May we closed the sale of the non-core Clysar business which further reduced U.S.
Packaging sales by 0.7%.
So in total net sales in this segment decreased by 1% but we still generated positive organic sales growth of 1.4%.
Our growth in organic net sales reflects unit volume improvement in some of our strongest product categories.
Packaging for meat and cheese dairy and liquids beverage pouches and pet care products.
These markets make up about 60% of U.S.
Packaging segment sales.
The notable offsetting decreases are in 2 product areas: over-wrap for carbonated soft drinks and CSD labels; and separately the decline we expected in unit sales volumes in confectionery and snack packaging.
Together these markets make up about 10% of total sales for U.S.
Packaging.
Adjusted operating profit for our U.S.
Packaging segment increased from 11.4% during the second quarter of 2012 to 13% this quarter.
This increase represents about $11 million in operating profit reflecting the benefit of the cost savings associated with the facility consolidation program.
In our Global Packaging segment which represents about 30% of total Bemis annual sales organic sales grew 1.9% but overall sales were down 2% driven by 3 factors.
First nondollar currencies primarily the Brazilian real weakened 2% versus last year's second quarter.
Second we closed 3 operating facilities and discontinued production of affiliated products.
So the optimization effect was a 3.5% reduction in sales.
And third we made a small acquisition during the third quarter of 2012 which increased sales this quarter by 1.6%.
Regarding price and volume trends in Global Packaging we implemented a price increase in our Latin American business in 2013 the impact of which was offset by lower unit volumes across most packaging applications.
Adjusted operating profit for the Global Packaging segment was $27.1 million or 7.2% of sales consistent with the levels of last year's second quarter.
Margin improvement is a top priority in this business and we are driving growth by growing our medical and pharmaceutical packaging business increasing volume throughout Latin America and generating supply chain benefits in Asia with the integration of our newly-acquired film platform in Foshan China.
In our Pressure Sensitive Materials segment net sales for the second quarter were consistent with last year's second quarter including a benefit from currency translation of less than 1%.
Organic sales therefore decreased by less than 1%.
This segment experienced a net increase in unit sales volume driven by higher unit sales of label products substantially offset by the resulting lower price and mix.
Operating profit for the Pressure Sensitive Materials segment decreased by $4.9 million compared to the same quarter of 2012 primarily driven by poor performance in our European pressure sensitive business.
We don't expect dramatic improvement in operating profit here until the European economy begins to strengthen and demand for our value-added graphic products improves.
Looking at consolidated gross profit as a percent of sales our margins improved by 1.6 percentage points to 19.4% this quarter as compared to 17.8% during the second quarter of 2012.
Now that we have achieved our target facility consolidation cost savings levels we expect gross margin improvement to continue at a slower pace reflecting the benefits of ongoing improvements in our product sales mix procurement processes and production efficiency.
Total selling general and administrative expenses were approximately 10% of sales in the second quarter.
The income tax rate for the second quarter was 34.1% slightly below our expected rate of 35%.
Going forward we expect the effective tax rate for the remainder of the year to be in line with our previous estimate of about 35%.
Cash flow from operating activities for the second quarter totaled $94 million about the same as the second quarter of 2012 in spite of slightly higher payments in 2013 associated with the facility consolidation program.
Higher working capital levels reflect the impact of price increases on accounts receivable as well as the remaining safety stock in inventory associated with the transition of production between plants during the facility consolidation.
We expect working capital levels to decline in the second half and the business to generate improved operating cash flow going forward.
Based on this assumption of improved levels of working capital we continue to expect cash flow from operations to be in the range of $430 million for 2013.
This also incorporates $50 million of payments associated with the plant closures and about $40 million of pension contributions.
With those expenditures behind us after 2013 we continue to expect cash flow from operations to be in excess of $500 million in 2014.
On July 1 immediately following quarter close we completed the acquisition of a film extrusion business in Foshan China which is also an existing film supplier to Bemis' Dongguan China plant.
This creates a film platform in the region from which we can significantly improve our supply chain costs and enhance our product offerings.
In addition this extrusion plant in China increases capacity and delays the need for green field investment in extrusion capacity.
This is one of the reasons our capital expenditures in the first half of this year were lower than originally planned and why CapEx has been lower than D&amp;A for quite a while now.
Essentially we have shifted some of our CapEx budget for growth in emerging regions to fund acquisitions instead.
In the second quarter of this year we spent $27 million in CapEx bringing total spending for the first half of the year to $54.5 million.
Spending on CapEx to date also is lower than planned because we've been focusing on moving existing equipment and the integration of production relating to the facility consolidation program.
We now expect our capital expenditures estimate for 2013 to be in the range of $130 million to $140 million depending upon the timing of related payments.
This does not affect our growth plans for 2013 or '14 because the process improvements we have made in some of our manufacturing operations are effectively pushing out the need for certain capital investments.
Note also that as the year-to-date run rate implies our depreciation and amortization for 2013 will be lower than in the past to reflect the impact of physical asset values we wrote down during the facility consolidation.
As a result depreciation and amortization is likely to be close to $195 million for the full year 2013.
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA at the end of the second quarter was back down to 2.1x.
And our returns on capital continue to improve as we expand operating margins while controlling invested capital.
Looking forward to the rest of the year our guidance for adjusted diluted earnings per share for the third quarter is $0.57 to $0.63.
This estimate reflects the fact that volumes are usually similar from the second quarter to the third quarter and some of the facility consolidation savings began to be realized in the third quarter of 2012.
We have narrowed our guidance for adjusted earnings per share for the total year 2013.
It was originally $2.30 to $2.45 and we have reduced the top end of the range so that it is now $2.30 to $2.40.
The lower top end of the range reflects our expectations for currency translation at the current rates and challenges in the European operations for our Pressure Sensitive Materials segment.
Now I'll turn the call over to Henry for his additional comments on business performance and outlook.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
As Scott said this quarter came in as expected.
We continued to experience sales growth in many of our core product areas.
For example we are experiencing strong sales growth in the liquid packaging market which is expanding in the United States as wine and spirit customers launch new products in more convenient and pre-mixed sizes.
I know I have shown many of you the pre-mixed frozen daiquiri and hard lemonade pouches that we are producing.
Now one of our customers has launched a Bag In Box wine using our multilayer know-how along with our polymer technology to add the toughness and rigidity needed to eliminate the box in Bag In Box.
And more broadly liquid packaging is growing for baby food and fruit slurry applications in addition to soups and sauces.
We are pleased to see the early stages of conversion from glass and cans to flexible pouches though we expect this transition will be slow due to the in-place investment in can and jar filling equipment in the United States.
In emerging markets like Brazil and China many products are sold in flexible pouches since the technology has been available for quite a few years.
New product launches are often done in flexible standup pouches because the modern consumer is looking for fresh convenient alternative food choices.
And we are pleased that some food companies are looking to the advantages flexible packaging offers to promote these newer products.
Over the past year we have also increased our market share in cheese packaging bringing on new customers and winning business that had moved competitors a few years ago.
Our medical and pharmaceutical packaging volumes have slowed this year as our customers respond to new device taxes and a lower number of elective medical procedures.
We have a strong market position in medical device packaging and we expect the normal growth in the market combined with our own innovation of materials to further improve our growth opportunities in the future.
One example of this innovation in medical packaging films is the launch of our multilayer films that protect difficult-to-package tubing and single-use components that enable the safe transfer containment and sampling of liquids.
Competition remains strong in the low-barrier packaging application for products like candy bars cereal liners tissue and diapers.
This is an area in which we have reduced capacity with our facility consolidation program and we will continue to exercise discipline in our decisions to participate in certain markets.
Our Clysar plant sold thin-gauge shrink films through distributors in the display market.
A very different business model than the rest of our U.S.
Packaging business.
With the sale of Clysar our U.S.
Packaging segment enjoys the synergies of a consistent business model and shared technology.
From a geographic perspective we are pursuing opportunities in every region of the world.
In the U.S.
our customers continue to look for opportunities to follow consumers and as they shift from the grocery store to Walmart to convenience or specialty stores and even to dollar stores for their food purchases.
For Bemis these trends mean more on-the-go sizes smaller individual-portion retail packages for dollar stores and convenient microwavable easy-open features.
The focus on freshness and sustainability as a differentiator to consumers gives Flexible Packaging formats a competitive advantage with our ability to reduce material content in packages eliminate the outer package and seal in fresh flavor for products that are fresh frozen refrigerated or shelf-stable.
Other packaging formats primarily serve the shelf-stable markets.
In Europe food distribution has different needs as consumers shop more often to ensure food is fresh and since storage space is often limited.
Here we are maintaining a streamlined product offering in the niche refrigerated food markets where our technology can give us a sustainable business plan in a tough economic environment.
In Latin America food costs have risen over 10% in the past year putting a lot of pressure on the budgets of those consumers in emerging markets and reducing volume in the packaged food markets.
In this region our new multilayer extrusion capacity combined with our polymer expertise are expanding the conversion to new forms of Flexible Packaging.
An example of this conversion from rigid to flexible standup pouches for liquid soap and moisturizing creams.
Another example would be the conversion of aluminum tubes to high-barrier multilayer tubes for creams adhesives silicones and even alcoholic drinks.
In Asia Pacific we now have a full complement of capabilities from which to grow.
We produce shrink packs for meat in the Australia New Zealand markets supporting our expansion of this product line into Asia.
We have been producing medical device packaging from our 2 greenfield sites in Malaysia built in 1997 and Suzhou China built in 2007.
And on the 1st of July we acquired a film extrusion business in Foshan China that serves the food packaging and electronics markets and is capable of providing other specialty film for medical and pharmaceutical packaging as well as high-barrier Asian [ph] markets.
We are pleased with our current global footprint and the capabilities that we have around the world to support customers in both developed and emerging regions.
We have also made great progress on our strategic priorities this year.
As you recall those priorities are to optimize and leverage our scale pursue focused growth in key market areas and accelerate innovation.
Over the past 2 years we have optimized our scale by consolidating production into the right facilities taking out less efficient fixed costs.
We have created formal programs to leverage our purchasing scale and we are building a global platform that better shares assets and know-how among business teams in every corner of the world.
We have been pursuing growth focused on high-barrier liquid packaging for products that are converting from other packaging formats or our new product offerings that provide convenience for consumers.
We are also investing in emerging market high-barrier film extrusion capacity to address higher margin Latin American markets with opportunities to increase our market share.
And we are working towards the expansion of our pharmaceutical product offering to global customers as well as continued global growth of our medical device product line.
These growth areas represent markets and geographies in which Bemis has or will develop or acquire unique capabilities that provide us a competitively-advantaged position from which to serve those markets.
Our longer term strategic priority is our focus on accelerating innovation.
We have a talented and creative team of research and development engineers around the world and concentrated at our innovation center here in Wisconsin.
In March we hired a new Chief Technology Officer Bill Jackson to lead this team in developing breakthrough technologies prioritizing and focusing research effort and accelerating successful new products to market.
Our effort to accelerate innovation will deliver steady growth to support Bemis in the progressive markets that we serve.
Thank you for your time today.
Now we will open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll hear first from Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird and Company.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Mehul Dalia filling in for Ghansham.
Can you comment on the competitive pricing environment in North America? Has there been any change in trends there? I don't really believe there's been any change in trends.
This is a competitive marketplace.
The more you can add in technology the more value add you have in your product the less competition in price.
The more it is -- more of a commodity type product the more competitive the situation.
But I don't see any change in the pricing environment and the competition environment in North America or in any of our businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as a follow on for PSM in Europe.
Are there any plans in place to offset the weaker volumes you're seeing there? There are plans in place.
We're now in the 7th quarter of decline in Europe and our graphics materials business is under continuing pressure because advertising weakened more in the second quarter.
So while our technical and other products are holding stable graphics products are really the core of our profit engine in Europe.
And so when that business center performs it has an exaggerated impact on the performance overall.
We've taken another round of aggressive cost-cutting actions and we've instituted mandatory furloughs at all levels of our pressure sensitive business in Europe.
So we're doing everything we can to prevent things from getting worse but I don't expect performance to improve meaningfully in the short term.
And now we'll take our question from Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Alex Hutter on for Phil.
I was just wondering if you could comment on trends in Brazil going into July thus far and whether you're seeing better demand there? Brazil used to be a 6% 7% growth vehicle and that really changed in the second part of last year.
I think Brazil right now for the short term as we look at our business finishing the rest of the year it's going to stay at the same level as it is today and we'll try to put some new products and try to gain some market share but I don't see a big change in the economy in Brazil relating to our packaging customers and our packaging sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up on U.S.
Packaging turning to volume growth.
I was curious what your customers are telling you if they're upbeat whether you're seeing some step up in volume or any kind of promotions or anything like that.
I think our customers are more upbeat than they have been in the past.
Whether it's -- they're looking for modest growth.
It's not a big change.
But instead of talking negatively or worrying about it being flat our customers are talking about very modest growth.
We'll now take a question from Al Kabili with Macquarie.
It's actually Danny Moran on for Al.
Kind of as a follow up to the slowing Brazil macro does this change the way you think about M&amp;A activity there? Are you kind of leaning more towards Asia-Pac? Or expansions in greenfields in the region? We're still pretty bullish about acquisition opportunities in Latin America.
And the acquisition opportunities we're looking at are generally smaller in size tuck-in deals to complement our existing product line.
We're already the largest flexible packaging manufacturer in Latin America.
And so we feel like we're in a good position to kick off some deals in the years ahead that will help grow -- that will help us grow in that region.
And we generally feel pretty optimistic about both organic growth opportunities and to be able to supplement that with some acquisitions tucked in along the way.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then can you give us some more detail on the NCS acquisition that you made during the quarter? Has this stood more in line with your higher-margin business? And do you think the mentioned cost and logistics benefits come later in 2014 or how should we think about that going forward? We're very excited to have the opportunity to acquire NCS.
It gives us a film platform in multilayer 7- and 9-layer materials.
They're already producing barrier materials for our Dongguan facility for Mayor Packaging.
So that will help us.
They also produce for other people in the high barrier regions and markets which we'll be able to grow.
They're bringing in a new market in electronics with a clean room that we can grow in the electronics business based on their technologies.
And the clean room facilities will help us transfer some of the materials that we make here in the North American region or European region to that facility because they have clean room.
That's one of the reasons that we were able to lower some of our CapEx because we didn't -- we have additional extrusion capacity by virtue of transferring those materials.
So we'll start to see some savings I think in the logistics area starting next year as we qualify these films in the markets in Asia Pacific.
We'll now move to question from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Henry can you talk about what you would expect your mix benefit to be in the second half and beyond in light of your recent market share gains in cheese and other areas and in light of some of the pouches and other products that your customers have recently introduced that you talked about earlier on the call? Well the first thing I want to say is that for the Bemis Company taking on and improving our sales and our product mix has been a major undertaking that we've been going through over the last year.
We continue to support that price/mix improvement and trying to increase our margins.
As you look at the second half of the year we will have anniversary-ed a lot of the improvement we gained from the first half of 2012 when we moved some of the facilities in Suzhou [ph] took some pricing actions with some less profitable materials.
So I don't think you're going to see much of a gain from that but we have a continued emphasis on improving the margins improving the products.
And that's really one of the reasons we made the investment in our R&amp;D center to bring in a chief technology officer.
Research Division</strong> And Scott how much higher do you expect CapEx to be next year in light of the reduction in your plans this year? And longer term how do you expect the combination of CapEx and acquisitions to compare to D&amp;A? Well we're still working on developing our budget for 2014.
We'll come out with a specific -- with some specific guidance in January as we always do.
I think that we are going to continue to underspend depreciation and amortization for at least the foreseeable future as we have been doing for the last several years.
And the reason we're able to do that really is because we're getting a lot of effective capacity gains out of our world class operations management initiatives that we've been working on and have accelerated in the past year.
As it relates to acquisitions I think that the Asian acquisitions we've done in the last 18 months first the acquisition of Mayor Packaging and now the acquisition of NCS offset the CapEx that we would have otherwise made in greenfield in that region.
But going forward I think that acquisitions are going to be really a separate consideration from CapEx and we're going to continue to use our acquisitions criteria and priorities as we evaluate what deals we're going to do.
We'll now move to a question from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Henry you mentioned a little bit of swelling in Brazil sort of over the last year almost.
But I'm just wondering in the quarter did you see anything get weaker sequentially in Brazil or more of the same? Can you characterize what you saw there? No we didn't see any weakening in Brazil.
We see that as a very sustainable offering that we have.
Things are just slowly improving for us but no there's no negative from the first quarter to the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean as you look out longer term correct me if I'm wrong but you don't have as much of your high-barrier film offering in Brazil currently.
Is there anything that you can do to really increase the mix of high-barrier films there? We do have -- the processed food business or the processed meat and cheese business is not sold there in the same venue that we would see it here in the U.S.
But it grows every year.
The part that is in our kind of technology we have a very strong position.
We are the leader in that area.
We have a very strong position in the pharmaceutical markets.
So it really comes as the economy grows the middle class grows.
They adopt the food safety and they adopt the sterility programs that we talk about around our higher-barrier products and our medical device and pharmaceutical will grow with it.
However I do want to just comment that we did see growth in there.
We brought up a new multilayer film line it's just starting up in Brazil.
And even in Mexico which is part of Latin America we will be bringing up a new multilayer line which will be the first one they have in that marketplace to support our customers in the Mexican region.
And that should start up first half of next year.
So we are making investments as we see that growth with a major player.
We have a good market share in those areas and we just need the growth in the economy.
And we'll now hear from Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wondered just going back to this Chinese acquisition for a minute.
It seemed like one of the concerns you guys have had historically is kind of protecting intellectual property as you go into some of those markets.
Can you talk about that issue at all? Well everyone would recognize it going into those markets you have to really be concerned about your intellectual property.
And we'll take steps to try to protect that.
We have I believe a good management team in place.
Through the acquisition of Mayor we moved some of our key management people to that part of the world and we'll be very cognizant of that we recognize that and it is a concern like it would be for anybody else moving to that region.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question I had Brazil.
Henry how much of your volume down in Brazil goes into the like the meat packing business? Because I'm just curious with all this weakening in the Brazilian AI [ph] whether we could actually start to see some pick up in exports of kind of wholesale meat cuts out of Brazil because they're more competitive in the market.
Well our meat business in Brazil is in the 5% to 10% of our sales so it's still rather small.
As Brazil's exports pick up we're going to gain from that.
A lot of the meat business that we do is for the export market.
So if exports of beef around the world pick up our sales volumes will pick up in that area.
But overall our broader [ph] business in the meat are is 5% to 10% of our Brazilian sales.
We'll now take a question from Usha Guntupalli with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you quantify the margin differential between formats like the faster growing flexible pouches versus legacy packaging business? Yes.
Could you ask the question again? I'm sorry.
Between the -- the margin differential between the faster growing flexible packaging and? Research Division</strong> Just the legacy packaging business.
Oh okay.
And the legacy packaging business.
So in our -- it's...
The margins in this conversion of glass or rigid or corrugated into the flexible arena are equal to our higher-margin business that we have where barrier is very important and where product safety is very important.
And it's in the higher end of our market range.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one more.
On the growth investments in Latin America and China what's your outlook for long-term growth in each of these markets and also margin profile with U.S.
operations? Well for long-term growth it really differs by end market that we're trying to serve both in terms of countries and in products.
So I can't give you a specific number that summarizes all of Asia-Pac and all of Latin America.
And what was the second part of your question? And we believe that the margins in those areas will slowly improve but it will take time for them to get up to where we are here in the U.S.
Packaging market because the refrigeration the transportation all the things that are necessary for our products to be used and for the economies to grow in those so there's more middle-class.
So we'll continue to monitor that we'll continue to invest in the growth but it's going to take a while for global markets to have the same margin as U.S.
Packaging.
We'll now hear from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Actually I’d like to start there if I could.
So if I'm looking at your Slide 3 the consolidation totals and such and I'm looking at the cost savings total for Q2 '13 $12.5 million.
And as I'm looking kind of high level down in the income statement and on a year-over-year basis seeing year-over-year operating income improvement of about $7 million and kind of looking at the differences between the 2 can you help me rectify some of that? I do recognize that as a whole your volumes are down.
Although some of the optimization impact in organic there's a net differential negative although presumably that should be helping.
Can you help talk me through maybe what some of the other differentials are? Is it -- are you're seeing higher labor wages et cetera or pension or other things that nature that might be -- some of the leakage if you will? First I'll turn this over to Scott in a minute but just to clarify most of the facility consolidation savings is coming into the U.S.
Packaging and benefiting U.S.
Packaging operating profits.
The savings that would benefit Global Packaging would -- is coming in slowly.
But it's going to be more towards the end of the year after we anniversary some of these changes.
And then also if you look at Pressure Sensitive Pressure Sensitive is between Pressure Sensitive and currency pressure that's offsetting some of the benefits that we got from the savings in U.S.
Packaging.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second question I have is as I think about -- when I look back over the last few years you've done some good work implementing some of the world-class manufacturing some of the different -- embracing some of the different Lean Six Sigma et cetera programs.
Where would you say you are in that impact today as in its ability to offset inflation? Are you -- are the impacts of -- or the benefits from your productivity programs at this point fully able to offset inflation? Or are you halfway there 2/3 the way there et cetera? How would you characterize that as a whole? We started this program about 5 years ago.
But we really didn't kick it into the high gear until really during 2012.
And we're now in a position where across all of our approximately 70 production facilities around the world we're at some level of implementation of WCOM world class operations management.
And so somebody asked us last quarter if we were to use a baseball analogy what inning we were in.
I think we're probably in maybe the fourth inning or the fifth inning in terms of really starting to get traction on cost savings to offset inflation at the company.
So are we there all the way yet? No.
We think there's a lot of opportunities still to come.
And again it really hits 2 places.
One is offsetting inflation but the second one is offsetting the need for CapEx because we're effectively creating new capacity as we find ways to get more out of the existing production equipment that we have in place.
We'll take a question from Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> The first question is just around capital allocation.
You're obviously very close to your targets here.
And so I'm wondering how you're thinking about buybacks versus potential additional M&amp;A in the back half of the year.
It seems like you have flexibility for both but I'm curious how you're thinking about that and what the pipeline looks like for future M&amp;A.
Sure.
Our -- we have a very specific priority list for use of capital and M&amp;A comes above share buyback.
But really it's continuing to pay an increasing dividend.
Second is to fund organic growth investments.
Third is to fund episodic acquisitions.
Fourth is to balance our ratings considerations so debt paydown with buybacks.
So we were in the market in the first quarter buying back stock.
In the minimum we're going to be buying back shares every year to offset the effect of incentive comp dilution.
But now around the range of where is really the minimum debt to EBITDA metric that we manage to we are not going to build up cash.
And so I guess the short answer to your question is if we do not find acquisitions that we need to fund in the short term we're going to be back in the market buying back stock.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question is I know you're somewhat of a smaller player in the fresh red meat side of the business.
But I guess I'm just curious Henry how you think about the returns you're seeing in that business kind of over time and whether this is a business that you think you could see improved returns in the future relative to some of the commentary that's been out there from some of your peers.
Our fresh meat business or our shrink bag business is a very good business for us.
It generates reasonable margins.
It generates good cash flow for us.
We haven't had to put a lot of investment into it lately.
We are fighting a very strong and big competitor who has great products but we compete very well with them.
I'm very happy with the business.
It gives us an avenue not only to sell shrink bags in the fresh meat areas but also an avenue to sell some of our other forming films and some of our other products to those customers that we normally wouldn't have reached just by selling to processed meat guys.
So I think it's got an excellent long-term strategy in our company.
I think it's got some good growth opportunities.
And I think there's some new products are going to fit very well into that market place over the next 2 or 3 years.
We'll take our next question from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups here.
Scott did you mention around 3Q that there were going to be some adjustments as we headed into the quarter? Or was that specific to 2Q? No I did.
My point was that we've been booking special charges every quarter during the course of this facility consolidation program.
And while all the facilities have now been closed we closed the last one in May there's a delay in when we actually book some of the special expenses associated with those.
And so we're going to have in the third quarter some additional special expenses relating to facility consolidation.
But they will be modest compared to what we've experienced in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But all the cash has been spent in regards to that or not? No there's still cash to be spent as well.
When I said charges I was just talking about accounting charges.
There's still more cash to be spent as well.
So far we're tracking below budget for cash expenditures and we'll have a final read on cash associated with this program as we get to the end of the third quarter.
We have a follow-up from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Following the closures of your facilities what utilization rates would you say you're running at in North America? And how much room do you think you have to grow in meat and cheese and the other high-barrier businesses that you want to grow in? I am very comfortable with the capacity utilization we are -- we're using today and where we stand.
If -- we're probably in that mid-80% range of capacity utilization.
If you're running your plants well if you get below 80% you start having problems covering some of your fixed costs.
If you get up over 90% you sometimes have service problems in supporting your customers.
So we're running in that mid-80s and I'm very happy to be in that position.
And we have a follow-up from Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I guess I'm just thinking about your portfolio domestically and offshore.
And I wonder beyond sort of facility rationalization and closures if there are opportunities in the portfolio to just do some more weed and feed? I mean if you're in businesses that have become more commoditized whether you just sell those businesses? We look through our businesses and we do our strategic planning every year.
We look through all the various businesses.
We assess how they fit into our company how they fit into our technology what our technology can bring what are the opportunities for growth in the marketplace what are our opportunities and how do we stand up against our competition.
And we go through that every year and one of those that came out was Clysar.
They didn't fit.
And again we're reviewing here as we go on to our planning for 2014 and making some of those decisions.
Research Division</strong> Henry would you say that that scrutiny has been more intense over the last couple of years or kind of steady as it goes in terms of the approach there? I think -- we acquired Alcan.
We put a lot of effort in there.
It left us with some excess capacity and some aging capacity.
And I think it really stoked the fires of the scrutiny that we put on our business divisions on which facilities to do what we expect from those divisions.
So I think we've increased over the last 3 to 4 years our scrutiny in our planning strategically on what fits in our company and more important than what fits in our company where are we taking this company and how does it fit into it.
[Operator Instructions] We'll hear from Fred Sirby [ph] with Dunbar Investment Partners.
A quick question on Smithfield Foods.
Potentially do you see some upside potentially in China to grow your business there on the back of this acquisition that probably will be consummated sometime later this year? I really don't know the answer to that question.
Smithfield is a very important customer to us.
We work very well with them.
I just don't know enough about what the plans for the owners and the plans for Smithfield are going to be.
It could be an opportunity for us.
It certainly won't be a negative.
And just a quick follow-up.
I mean in Brazil when things were hot and it looked a little frothy multiples were very very high and throughout Latin America and you've talked about maybe some more tuck-in acquisitions maybe during this down cycle.
Do you think some expectations are coming a bit where you can do some highly accretive deals? Well I think we have the opportunity to do that there.
They keep growing in as I call it food safety and sterility.
We have a good management team.
We have a management team that has done acquisitions in the past.
We have good -- so I think that we have a management team to do that.
I think there could be some opportunities coming up.
The markets that we want to serve continue to grow.
So yes I see that as an area where we will look very strongly for acquisitions.
And I would say in terms of price on those acquisitions the last acquisition we made was the purchase of Huhtamaki's rigid business in Brazil.
But whether it's in Latin America or Asia Pacific or U.S.
or anywhere else we are going to be very disciplined about how we value deals and what we're willing to pay.
We just can't afford to overpay and we're going to continue to exercise a lot of discipline about what deals we're going to do.
And we have no further questions at this time.
Thank you very much and thank you all for joining us today.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference call.
We do thank you all for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Bemis Company hosted Bemis Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Melanie Miller.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you.
Welcome to our third quarter 2013 conference call.
Today is October 24 2013.
After today's call a replay will be available on our website www.bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are Bemis Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Henry Theisen; and our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Scott Ullem.
Today Scott will begin with comments on the financial statements and outlook for the year followed by Henry with comments on business performance and market trends.
After our comments we will answer any questions you have.
However in order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate we ask that you limit yourselves to 1 question at a time with a related follow-up and then fall back into the queue for any additional questions.
On today's call we will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures as we talk about Bemis' performance.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures we consider most comparable can be found in the press release and in the supplemental schedules on our corporate website under the Investor Relations section.
Before we begin I'd like to remind everyone that statements regarding future performance of the company made in this teleconference are forward-looking and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors including currency fluctuations changes in raw material cost and availability industry competition unexpected costs associated with information systems changes in customer order patterns our ability to pass on increased cost in our selling prices unexpected cost related to production transition interest rates fluctuations and regional economic conditions.
A more complete list of risk factors is included in our regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012.
Now I'll turn the call over to Scott Ullem.
Thanks Melanie.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on this third quarter call.
I'll start with a reminder that the third quarter supplemental schedules are available on bemis.com under the Investor Relations tab.
The supplemental schedules provide more detail relating to this morning's press release and financial statements.
The first slide details the adjustments to reconcile from GAAP to non-GAAP earnings per share.
This quarter these adjustments reflect 2 activities.
First we recorded a gain on sale of property totaling $0.02 per share.
This property was not related to the facility consolidation program.
Second net charges of $0.10 per share associated with the facility consolidation program include final direct costs associated with the closure of these 9 facilities.
These costs include about $0.07 per share related to a multiemployer pension liability associated with 2 of our closed facilities.
This $0.07 per share charge reflects an estimated increase in the withdrawal liability.
We expect this multiemployer pension liability to be settled within the next 12 months.
While we do not expect any additional direct charges associated with the closure of the plants we are experiencing higher-than-expected production costs related to the installation of certain relocated equipment.
These installation costs and production inefficiencies are not included in the GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation but are instead reflected on Slide 2 of the supplemental schedules as a reduction in our realized program savings in the second half of this year.
The net of these 2 adjustments brings us to our non-GAAP earnings-per-share of $0.60 consistent with last year's third quarter results and in line with our guidance of $0.57 to $0.63 this quarter.
Slide 2 of the supplemental schedules shows the total expenses cash payments and net savings associated with our facility consolidation program including expectations for the remainder of this year.
It is important to note that the net cost savings shown on this schedule represents the savings associated with the closed facilities net of increased production and installation costs related to the relocation of production and equipment from the closed facilities.
Total savings from the completed facility consolidation program are expected to be $50 million per year or $12.5 million per quarter.
We achieved those savings in the second quarter but this quarter we encountered substantially higher costs associated with the relocation of equipment and transfer of production reducing our net cost savings to $6 million.
As you can see on the box on the right-hand side of the slide we expect the same savings net of higher costs to continue through the fourth quarter.
The full annual savings rate of $50 million is expected to be achieved beginning in 2014.
The third slide in the supplemental schedules details of the change in net sales for Bemis in total and by business segment.
We identified the components of the changes in sales including currency effect M&amp;A transaction effect and optimization effect.
Optimization effect reflects the impact of those sales that we walked away from in conjunction with the facility consolidation program.
Essentially optimization effect represents sales that were at lower margins than we considered acceptable to support the cost of moving the production to another facility.
Optimization effect only refers to business impacted by the facility consolidation program and not to business impacted by the ongoing effort to improve our sales mix.
With the optimization impact isolated the performance of the core business is shown as organic and is our version of same-store sales.
As this third slide of the supplemental schedules indicates total consolidated Bemis net sales decreased by 2.3% compared to the third quarter of 2012.
Currency accounted for a 1.5% drop and the added sales from the acquisition of a China-based extrusion film business this quarter were substantially offset by the reduction in sales due to the divestiture of our Clysar plant last quarter.
In total optimization effects reduced net sales by 1.8% compared to the third quarter of 2012.
Excluding the impact of currency mergers and acquisitions transactions and optimization organic net sales increased for total Bemis by about 1.1%.
To provide more color on the growth in our core business I'll go through the detail of the business segments in the same way.
In the U.S.
Packaging business segment which represents about 60% of our annual net sales third quarter sales decreased by 3.1% compared to the third quarter of 2012.
The sale of the Clysar plant accounted for a decrease of 2.5% in net sales.
Optimization activities in the U.S.
also decreased net sales by 1.5% compared to last year.
Therefore excluding the impact of the divestiture and excluding the impact of the optimization activities net sales in the U.S.
Packaging segment increased by about 1%.
This increase in our organic net sales reflects the benefit of price and sales mix improvement partially offset by lower unit sales volume compared to the third quarter of 2012.
Year-over-year comparisons are challenging this quarter because we commercialize new business in several of our high-barrier product lines during the third quarter of last year.
This year volumes decreased sequentially from the second quarter and compared to last year.
Adjusted operating profit as a percentage of sales for our U.S.
Packaging segment was 13% this quarter.
This is consistent with the results for the first half of 2013 reflecting the benefits of increased sales of value-added products in spite of lower unit volume levels.
This compares to adjusted operating profit margins in the third quarter of 2012 of 13.9% which reflects the benefit of higher volumes in the second half of last year.
In our Global Packaging segment which represents about 30% of total Bemis annual sales net sales decreased by 1.8%.
In total currency translation reduced net sales by 5.7% compared to the third quarter of 2012.
The weaker Brazilian real was the largest contributor to the translation loss.
The acquisition of a China-based extrusion film business in July increased sales by about 4.8%.
We closed 3 facilities during the fourth quarter of 2012 and discontinued production of the items produced there.
The impact of the closed facilities known as the optimization effect is shown in the supplemental schedule represents a decrease in net sales of 3.0%.
After accounting for each of these items the remaining organic or same-store sales growth in net sales for the Global Packaging segment totaled 2.1% for the third quarter and reflects the net positive impact of price increases.
We implemented a double-digit price increase in our Latin American business late in 2012 the impact of which has been partially offset by lower unit volumes across most packaging applications.
Unit volumes as well as price and mix were up modestly in our European packaging operations this quarter compared to the third quarter of last year.
Adjusted operating profit for the Global Packaging segment was $28.3 million or 7.6% of sales an increase versus last year's Q3 operating margin of 6.7%.
Excluding the negative impact of currency adjusted operating profit dollars would have increased by about 20% compared to the third quarter of last year.
In our Pressure Sensitive Materials segment net sales for the third quarter increased by 1.2% compared to last year's third quarter including a benefit from currency translation of 1.7%.
Organic sales therefore decreased by 1/2 of 1%.
Operating profit for the Pressure Sensitive Materials segment increased to $7.9 million or 5.8% of net sales compared to $7.7 million or 5.7% of net sales for the same quarter of 2012.
About 45% of the sales of the segment are exposed to the European economy and especially to the European advertising industry.
While we are working hard to combat these headwinds we do not expect dramatic improvement in operating profit until the European economy begins to strengthen and demand for our value-added graphic products improves.
Looking at Bemis' consolidated gross profit as a percentage of sales our margins improved to 19.7% this quarter compared to 19.2% during the third quarter of 2012.
The increase in gross margins reflects a limited amount of incremental cost savings improvement in procurement processes and improved sales mix compared to the third quarter of 2012.
As a result gross profit dollars for this quarter were consistent with last year in spite of lower sales levels.
Selling general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales were consistent with last year and last quarter and we expect these costs to be relatively stable through the fourth quarter.
The income tax rate for the third quarter was 34.1% consistent with last quarter and slightly below our expected rate of 35% as we benefited from the completion of the state tax audit.
In the fourth quarter we expect the effective tax rate to be back up to 35%.
Cash flow from operating activities for the third quarter totaled $160 million about 9% higher than the third quarter of 2012.
Working capital is still higher than we expected in part because we are still carrying more inventory associated with the transition of production between plants during the facility consolidation.
As this transition winds down during the fourth quarter we expect working capital levels to decline and the business to generate improved operating cash flow going forward.
We expect cash flow from operations to be approximately $400 million for the total year 2013.
This estimate is lower than our previous 2013 estimate of $430 million which also reflects our slightly lower earnings guidance for Q4.
This amount incorporates about $50 million of payments associated with the plant closures and approximately $40 million of pension contributions.
With those expenditures behind us after 2013 we continue to expect the cash flow from operations to be in excess of $500 million in 2014.
Capital expenditures for the third quarter were about $36 million bringing total spending for the 9 months to $90.3 million.
Capital expenditures spending to date is lower than planned due to delays in the integration of production during the facility consolidation program.
These delays have pushed some of the capital projects to the fourth quarter of 2013 and into 2014.
We are leaving our full year 2013 capital expenditure guidance unchanged at $130 million to $140 million depending on the timing of related payments.
Regarding balance sheet leverage net debt to adjusted EBITDA at the end of the third quarter was 2.1x an improvement from the same quarter of 2012 and close to our target rate of 2x.
As we have discussed we intend to invest capital wisely and not to accumulate cash.
Our priorities continue to be funding the dividend investing in required capital projects funding strategic acquisitions and balancing share repurchases with paying down debt.
Combined with our programs to improve operating margins in our business operations we expect our return on invested capital metric to show continuous improvement going forward.
Looking forward to the end of the year our guidance for adjusted diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter is $0.50 to $0.56 bringing our total year guidance to $2.24 to $2.30 per share.
This estimate reflects the lack of volume growth in the second half of the year the negative impact of currency given the current levels of the Brazilian real and the higher-than-expected transition costs associated with the relocation of equipment and production from closed facilities.
Our guidance assumes that we will achieve $32 million of the expected total savings from the facility consolidation this year compared to $8 million of savings in 2012.
The total run rate of $50 million should be achieved in 2014 once transition-related costs are behind us.
Now I'll turn the call over to Henry for his additional comments on business performance.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
This quarter we are pleased to have achieved profits that reflect our strategic initiatives to improve profitability and sales mix.
Gross margin increased to 19.7% compared to 19.2% last year.
U.S.
Packaging segment operating margin held steady at 13% despite lower sequential unit sales volumes.
Global Packaging operating profit increased by 20% partially offset by the weaker Brazilian currency as Scott has mentioned.
And operating margins in our Pressure Sensitive Materials segment increased sequentially to 5.8% consistent with last year and a nice improvement from the second quarter.
While these are all steps in the right direction we did have some performance issues this quarter.
The modest sales growth that we expected for the second half of this year has not materialized.
In addition while we completed the final plant closure during the second quarter we were not able to efficiently accommodate the transferred volume due to some mechanical and electrical issues with the equipment being relocated from the closed facilities.
Not having a full capacity available created inefficiencies in our U.S.
business that required higher costs to be incurred to meet customer commitments.
We expect the capacity to be completely repaired and operational in the first quarter of 2014.
Sales volume presented a tough comparison with 2012 because we experienced an increase in unit volumes during the third quarter of 2012 with the commercialization and ramp-up of several new liquid products in addition to new cheese business in the United States.
While we continue to service these customers and win new business customer order levels have normalized now compared to the initial ramp-up of 2012.
While certain applications have been experiencing weaker consumer demand in the beverage category we expect growth opportunities on liquid packaging where broad categories of historically canned products are either converting or expanding into flexible packaging formats.
For instance flexible standup pouches for baby food and fruit slurries now appear in the U.S.
grocery store near baby food canned fruit and organic product aisles.
Soups and sauces are also beginning to be introduced into new flexible formats.
Health-conscious consumers are also driving increased demand for yogurt as well as cheese as a healthy snack alternative.
In our medical device packaging category global sales volumes are lower than last year reflecting soft consumer demand for elective medical procedures and the austerity measures in the European community.
In Latin America the price of food has increased by double-digit percentages in the past 12 months reducing demand from cash-strapped consumers.
Our selling prices have increased as well offsetting inflation in this region and supporting the overall organic growth in our Global Packaging segment.
Our European Flexible Packaging business teams are executing a strategy to expand in niche markets where our sealant films and proprietary structures provide customers with value-added packaging solutions increased profit margins in this region reflect modest improvement in both unit sales volume and price mix compared to 2012.
In Asia we have expanded our film extrusion capabilities with the acquisition of a specialty film plant in Foshan China on July 1.
This new capacity will supply specialty films to our operations in China and Malaysia and represents our film platform for the Asia-Pacific region.
Now I'd like to touch briefly on our capital expenditure forecast for the fourth quarter.
Now that the facility consolidation program is behind us our engineers are refocusing their effort on growth initiatives instead of plant closings.
The fourth quarter capital expenditure guidance includes down payments on equipment supporting several flexible packaging growth projects which we expect will be completed in 2014.
We will continue to invest in growth initiatives going forward to support our long-term strategy which prioritizes barrier technologies medical and pharmaceutical packaging and growth in the Asia-Pacific region.
Thank you for your time today and we'll now open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Henry what are your customers in North America telling you about why packaged food and beverage volume has been disappointing recently? I mean as far as I know they haven't raised prices on their products to any appreciable extent and can you highlight specific categories that have been weaker than you expected? I know you mentioned beverage but if you wouldn't mind elaborating on that that would be great.
In the U.S.
Packaging area if you look at -- I look at markets that are consider value-added which really follow food-safety type things meats dairies liquids those types of things.
There -- some are a little up some are a little down but basically they're kind of flat overall.
Where we saw a -- really the drop in volumes kind of fall into 2 areas.
One is beverage and that would represent our multipack business and our labels business for things like carbonated soft drinks.
The other area would be really in those commodities type areas that we have taken aggressive pricing actions or have been willing to walk away from business.
So what I really want to point out is the areas where you have value-add it's been kind of flat.
A little bit of things -- some are up some are down but the main area that we were kind of a little bit surprised by is the beverage area which is the multipack and the labels business.
As far as what our customers are telling us they're still positive.
I think they're just trying to figure out what really went on too and -- I don't know.
It could just be a lack of real confidence going forward.
Nothing specific.
Research Division</strong> And then just one follow-up.
Obviously a large competitor of yours in North America announced -- recently announced a sizable price increase.
What are your thoughts on that increase? Do you plan to follow it? Any thoughts would be helpful.
Just to get it out of the table the price of polyethylene did increase $0.05 going into this quarter.
And our people are very dedicated to making sure that when our raw materials increase they pass those along to our customers.
And I fully expect that to happen before the end of the quarter.
As far as the comment by one of our large competitors I haven't seen that -- we haven't seen that in the markets where we compete directly.
And in fact I'd have to say that they're more aggressive than they have been in the past in areas where we compete directly.
And we'll take our next question from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Henry you mentioned with the production issues that you had you didn't have the full capacity to meet customer needs.
And so I was just wondering how did you make up for that? I mean you mentioned you spent more money to make up for that.
Did you use outside suppliers or how did you go about selling those needs of the customers? Well the first thing I want to do is make a comment on -- I don't want to leave anybody with the idea that we have capacity problems.
This was a very unsteady state where we were moving 2 significant pieces of business.
Now that those pieces of business are installed the parts are going to be in and installed here in early November we will have more than plenty capacity to handle this.
And if we have a problem someplace in a steady-state arrangement this would not be a concern for us.
Where we talked about the efficiencies is in order to meet the customer commitments that we had we moved business to other facilities within the organization.
So we had some higher waste with materials that were being produced at startup of these things.
We also generated some additional logistics costs some additional graphics costs some additional waste costs as we serviced our customers out of other facilities and met all of our commitments.
Research Division</strong> And then just following up on the competitive landscape in some of the flexible pouches that you mentioned it seems like the 1 product I'm thinking of mostly is the thing you've -- the frozen alcoholic beverage flexible pouch.
It seems that a lot of competitors are utilizing a me-too strategy and following on on that.
Can you just talk about some of the competitive dynamics in some of those newer products? Is it greater than you would expect? Or does your technology advantage help you out with those customers? I think our technology advantage is the reason we get the business in the first place.
There's a lot of technology that goes into sealing liquid products and not having leakers or sealing around.
There's a lot of technology that goes into the design of hot tack or so when it's hot it holds together and doesn't open up as you drop 16 ounces of liquid in there.
So I think our technology gives us an advantage in getting the business.
It also separates us and keeps us in line for that business for a longer period of time.
It gives us pricing power.
But in all things eventually your competition catches up.
But our technology puts us in first place.
Our technology gives us a better pricing in the beginning and it holds on longer on that price curve than you would without that technology advantage.
And we'll take our next question from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Alax Wang sitting in for George.
First question just how did Pressure Sensitive business do during the quarter? Did you guys see a strengthening or weakening throughout the quarter? Maybe you can talk a little bit about that.
Sure Alex it's Scott.
Our Pressure Sensitive Materials business held in pretty well.
It was really a consistent quarter from start to finish and we're pleased that we were able to improve our operating margins a little bit during the third quarter over the second quarter.
It was really pretty steady during the course of the last 3 months.
Research Division</strong> And is it still early to talk about 4Q volumes in Pressure Sensitive? It's a little early to talk about 4Q volumes.
Any volume changes really will come during the second half of the quarter.
And at this point we don't have any different expectations than the conditions that we've seen in the third quarter.
And we'll take our next question from Ghansham Panjabi.
Research Division</strong> The optimization effect you discussed that's related to the impact on sales Scott how should we model that in 2014? Is there still going to be a headwind through sort of 2Q of next year and then you kind comp through that? Or how should we think about that? This is Henry.
Gansham I believe that all of the effects of our closing plants getting equipment reinstalled all of those things will be completed in the fourth quarter.
There should be no overlap or run into the first quarter of next year.
Research Division</strong> But I guess in terms of the business you walked away from? Sorry.
But I think that's over.
Yes so that should be anniversaried hopefully by the end of December.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then Scott just in terms of the profitability profile in '14 versus '13 I know you had some savings from the cost savings program that you have been working so hard on but do you expect operating profit to be up year-over-year '14 versus '13 if volumes don't pick up? We do and we'll talk more about that in the next quarter's call.
But we just spent in addition to the optimization the facility consolidation program we've been spending a lot of time making sure that we're getting paid an appropriate margin for the technology differentiation that our products deliver to our customers.
And so we are very focused on improving our operating margins going forward.
We expect to see that improvement in 2014.
Then we'll go next to Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> Scott that was very good rundown and I just must have missed it but you did say as we go through these 3 segments if we kind of look at the organic volumes as you look at it I guess the U.S.
was down in packaging.
But could you tell -- and I believe you said in Global that Europe was up and LatAm was down but overall it was flat but if you could verify that? And then also what were the organic volumes as you look at them in Pressure Sensitive year-over-year? This is Melanie.
Let me go through that briefly with you and then I can go through that again with you offline if you'd like.
But with regard to U.S.
Packaging if you look at the components of change in net sales scheduled that's in the supplemental schedules that we included organic U.S.
Packaging sales were up 0.9%.
And that represents increased price in mix partially offset by volume decline in total.
On the Global Packaging side organic was up 2.1% which represents substantial increases in price and mix really around the globe as offset by a decrease in volume in Latin America specifically.
And in Pressure Sensitive the organic price and mix -- organic volume was down about 0.50%.
That represents a slight decline in price mix as volume in roll label was flat and volume in graphic products was down modestly.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up.
I know Henry you mentioned one of your competitors was being a bit maybe more competitive or at least at their markets could you just give us an idea of the specific markets in packaging you felt might be a little bit more competitive? Well I think that all markets are competitive.
I think it really hasn't changed.
It's very competitive.
You have a no-growth environment out there or very slow-growth environment.
And our competitors will chase new business just as we chase new business.
I don't think it's really drastically changed.
And we'll take our next question from Usha Guntupalli with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So for the quarter could you quantify the savings from facility consolidation and the headwinds from equipment transition costs? I know you gave us a net number but what would the individual buckets be? The individual pieces of what was -- what the savings was and what the costs were? Research Division</strong> Exactly.
I think that's what you're asking.
So in the third quarter we had talked about the facility consolidation-related savings to be achieved would be about $12.5 million a quarter.
And if you broke it apart we could argue that a large part of that $12.5 million was realized but offset by additional costs associated with what Henry had mentioned about the logistics costs and the increased waste associated with moving production around because the equipment that had been identified for that production to move to was not yet completely installed.
So we had to do -- we had a lot of increased costs associated with the moving around of production that reduced it -- reduced our savings in the third quarter to $6 million which is $6.5 million under what we had expected.
And that's on the Facility Consolidation Financial Summary on Page 3 of the supplemental schedules.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then for the acquisition in China that is NCS how do you think about the annual EBITDA contribution and earnings accretion in 2014? Sure.
We have not announced what the earnings accretion will be and we may talk more about that in the upcoming call.
What I can tell you is that it was an attractive acquisition and the margins of that business reflect the fact that this is a specialty film producer and is going to put us in a position where we can differentiate ourselves with our customers and our offerings in China beyond just being a converter.
But we have at this point not disclosed what the profitability margins are going to be like I say we may talk more about that next quarter.
And we'll take our next question from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
First I guess I'm a little confused with something so I want to kind of go back and take a look at specifically what I'm thinking about the U.S.
Packaging business.
You talked about losing some revenue is part of optimization impact and some stuff that was sold in the revenue section.
And when you look at the operating profit section you talked about -- if we've estimated this right and listening from earlier part it sounds like it was maybe $6 million or so impact from moving some of the production facilities around.
But even if I net this all up and I look at the $24 million difference in revenue and I look up what the profit differential was making this adjustment it still suggests that the detrimental margin is something in the high 30s low 40% range.
So I guess where I'm confused is either the business that you sold from Clysar was wickedly profitable or the lower margin business was really really high profit business that you're walking away from.
Can you help me maybe understand why that detrimental margin might have been so high? Or what I might be missing when I'm thinking about it this way? This is Melanie.
Maybe -- it will probably helpful for us to go through the details of what you're looking at more specifically.
But just to comment on -- maybe this will help.
As you look at Page 4 of the supplemental schedules and the breakout of what happened with U.S.
Packaging it's -- the volumes excluding optimization effect where we walked away from volume as a part of facility consolidation program volumes were also down for the quarter in U.S.
Packaging.
So the decline in volumes in addition to the -- or the increased costs associated that we said essentially offset the facility consolidation savings we had been expecting all of that impacted the results of the quarter in addition to -- and we haven't -- I mean you still have the optimization effect decline in sales.
But you're right those were low margin sales not high margin sales.
So I think perhaps the answer looking through all of these that we can go through the details is the sales volume decline.
It was the 1.5% due to optimization effects related to facility consolidation closings but we also had low volumes ignoring that.
And all of that together is going to result in lower operating profit number than you otherwise would've had.
Does that answer part of it? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I'll follow back up.
I guess second -- my second question had to do with this.
I look at where you've been adding business or doing some of the growth in Asia Pacific acquisitions et cetera.
Today the global piece is roughly 30-ish or so percent of revenue.
What's your target as you look out 5 to 10 years and how does the profitability of this acquired business and these pieces that what you're seeing in Asia compared to maybe what you're seeing compared to Europe or South America or the segments as a whole? How do you view this kind of playing out with respect to profitability? First off the Foshan acquisition though it is small in comparison to a lot of the other divisions within the Bemis company was really done for a long-range plan.
It gave us a specialty film extrusion business that can feed our strategies.
And our key strategies for growth are around food safety and sterility in the medical device and pharma products.
And this gives us a base to make the types of sealants and the types of films using multilayer extrusion and various polymers for that growth.
Our growth will depend upon a lot on how fast the middle class develops so that you see more packaged foods rather than foods sold in open air frozen environment.
So we're going to continue to see growth both in Latin America as a developing area as it picks up its economy and in Asia Pacific especially China as the middle class develops and the need for our type of products that provide food safety and sterility grow.
I'll just add we don't have a specific target for sales mix 5 years from now but what we can tell you is as you can tell from our acquisition investments we are clearly focused on growing outside of the U.S.
And we're focused on profitable growth outside of the U.S.
So you should expect to see that not only will the top line be growing nicely in Global Packaging but the return on sales will continue to improve over time as well.
And we'll take our next question from Al Kabili with Macquarie.
This is Danny Moran in for Al.
Just going back to the U.S.
organic volumes can you give us some color on what you're seeing as far in October? And can you talk about how the volume progressed during the third quarter? During -- throughout most of the third quarter as Henry suggested we saw sort of just softening volumes in beverage and -- as well as -- or not sequentially but year-over-year lower volumes in say meat and cheese dairy and liquids area because last year was such a tough comp.
September volumes were not any different than the others.
It was sort of I guess slow.
We didn't see the increase we would have expected.
And I think October is just further carry on from September.
So good volumes but not as good as we saw such strong volumes last year in the fall.
Okay.
And just a follow up.
Have you seen promotional activity pick up as a consequence of what has been softer volumes? Not really.
That would be interesting to see if that occurs in the fourth quarter but I don't think we saw a lot of promotional volumes pick up in the third quarter.
And we'll take our next question from Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wonder either Henry or Scott or maybe both of you if I look at the Global Packaging business your margins are quite a bit lower than what they are in the U.S.
and I wondered if you could help us and just thinking about sort of the 3 or 4 kind of main levers that you're working on right now to improve margins in the Global Packaging business? Well the acquisition of Foshan is one of the first ones and that's to get a film base so that we can transport more of our technology and they're higher-end.
But the -- was China or Brazil the smaller middle-class you still have a lot of products that are really packaged in dust covers.
I look at getting in and therefore the overall margin is less in that area.
As there's more middle-class as people want more things for food safety for instance in China where they've had the various scares.
Now they performed their first version of the FDA to try to regulate some things.
People want those materials the food safety and the sterility.
And as those increase our margins will increase because then you have more value-added products to sell.
Mark I'll add 2 things.
First in Europe we've been fighting a difficult macroeconomic environment for our Flexible Packaging business for a couple of years and we've been working very hard to right size our cost structure for European Flexible Packaging.
So one of the plants that we closed was in that segment of our business and we've now seen a little bit of strengthening in sales and in margins in Europe which has been a nice improvement.
Second in our Global Packaging our Global Medical Packaging business we're continuing to see strength and really exploit the fact that we are a critical part of medical devices and pharmaceuticals that are in our packages and we need to get paid for that technology and protection that we're delivering to the end-user.
So you're going to continue to see improvement in our profit margins across the Global Packaging enterprise.
Research Division</strong> Do you have any targets Scott for what you want -- what type of margin you'd like to see in that Global segment and what you think a reasonable timeframe is? Yes I think at this point we're not going to give specific targets for Global Packaging or component pieces.
Again I think the better time for us to be talking about that is when we give guidance for the full year 2014 next quarter.
And we'll take our next question from Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> On Global Packaging I know the first two quarters of this year you're lagging pretty tough comps due to the price increase.
How should we be thinking about organic growth of that business in Q4 and going into '14? Well I think it -- in our global business? Research Division</strong> That's right Global packaging business.
You're going to look at our South America or Latin American businesses is being relatively flat.
There's not a lot of growth in the economy.
Unfortunately there's been a double-digit growth in food pricing which I think just leads to kind of a flat environment for that part of the world.
In China I think we're going to see mid-to-high single-digit growth in our Food Packaging business but it is so small compared to our Brazilian.
It's not going to have that great of an effect.
And of course food packaging flexible Europe it's small again in relationship to our Latin American business.
And hopefully the economy improves a little bit but it's not going to be substantial enough to really change anything.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then I guess switching gears to U.S.
Packaging.
You saw some deceleration in the quarter and I guess you had some new products but didn't seem materialize as much as you would've anticipated.
How should we be thinking about '14? And I know you guys like to prune some low-margin business.
Could we see another low- to mid-single digit type volume decline or it's kind of flattened out at this point? I think you're going to see more like in the U.S.
Packaging business a very modest increase.
I think we'll still be very proactive in how we deal with the lower margin commodity business and that will probably cost us a little bit of volume.
I think we're going to see an increase in our CapEx spending going forward.
It won't be the same as $130 million because our product development people have some good projects in line with some of our customers and I think that will drive some of the growth for us going on into 2014.
We'll take our next question from Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on -- you've talked in the past about cash from operations in 2014 having a target of $500 million plus.
You lowered your cash from operations view for this year but a decent amount of that sounds transitory.
But with the softer volumes and things like that is there any reason to think that it might be a bit of a longer data target to hit that $500 million or how are you thinking about that now? We feel good about the $500 million target.
There will be 3 things different in 2014 than in 2013.
Number one we won't have the facility consolidation payments going out the door.
Number two we had a $40 million pension contribution in 2013 that we do not expect to repeat in 2014.
And number three our business is going to be more stabilized after completely [indiscernible] all these -- the moving pieces from facility consolidation.
And so things like inventory should come down and improved working capital will help drive cash flow to that $500 million level.
We'll take our next question from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question I had perhaps you've already answered this.
If you have apologies.
Where do you stand Henry in taking out the low margin amount of business within your portfolio? I realize it's an evergreen process every year but looking at your portfolio right now how much more volume do you think you need to remove that doesn't really meet FEMA standards and if you could quantify that at all that would be great.
I don't know if I can really quantify it for you because a lot of that is going to depend upon how our competition behaves and what pricing levels and how competitive they get in that arena.
What I can say is a lot of the optimization cost that we had in dealing with these prices or these lower margin areas were related to the fact that we had to move the business.
And when you looked at it it just didn't make any sense to move.
So right now I'm happy with the amount of the business that we have in those areas.
It's settled in our facilities.
It's part of our program going forward.
We're going to compete in those markets.
It will kind of depend just upon what our competition wants to do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I want to follow on.
I forget who asked the question but ultimately next year -- and I realize there are no guarantees in life.
We're not going to hold you to this.
But as you see the world U.S.
food packaging U.S.
Packaging you would expect volume to be up modestly in 2014 even when considering any additional product calling in your mix.
Is that a fair statement? I think that's a fair statement George.
And we'll take our next question from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Henry I know you've talked about Brazil earlier but can you compare the conditions you're experiencing there now to what you've experienced in the last few quarters? Have they gotten any worse better? No.
I think this year has been pretty stable.
2 3 years ago I used to see 6% 8% growth and now you're just not seeing any growth.
And I think that's been consistent through all 3 quarters of the year and I would expect that to be the same thing in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And just on your mix in U.S.
Packaging how would you characterize your opportunity to keep improving that mix? And can you give us any sense as to how meaningful that mix shift could be to your future sales growth profit growth et cetera? It's difficult to see with all the moving parts obviously.
I think that mix improvement is very important to our growth in the future.
We turned a big corner here through this facility consolidation.
You see our return on sales you see our margins have improved you see our metrics are better.
And then a lot of that is related to being able to offer products that solve our customers' problems.
We have a very extensive and an excellent R&amp;D staff and we rely on them for a lot of our growth.
And I think that client will continue into the future.
We'll take our next question from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's -- this is actually Gabe.
I was looking at fourth quarter last year particularly in U.S.
Packaging and was there anything unusual in terms of profitability? I mean it was -- I think margins were about 17% there.
And as we're thinking about raw materials and maybe this feeds into Chris' earlier question about what may have impacted the third quarter here sort of anything you're thinking about that was an aberration last year that may not repeat? This is Melanie.
If you look at the fourth quarter of last year we did have some unusual items in there.
One of them and it was in the disclosures for the fourth quarter but we had something that we call a harmonization effect because we changed so many accounting policies that increased the margins above that 17% level.
If you exclude that margins are still close to 15% and that included just some adjustments onetime adjustments in the fourth quarter due to adjustments to incentive comp accruals and such because of the way the GAAP results were reported last year.
So as -- what we had talked about in January as you look at total year operating profit for 2012 for U.S.
Packaging it was in that 13% range and that we had thought that that was a reasonable target for 2013 given that we thought volume was going to be flat year-over-year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Henry anything on the raw material front? No.
Hopefully raw materials stay stable but nothing different than that.
Yes other than the small trending increases that we've had really for the last 12 months or so raw materials have been fairly flat and so that's been easier to manage.
We'll take a follow-up from George Staphos with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Henry Scott Melanie as you look at growing internationally and it seems like you're focusing more on China what are the lessons you've learned thus far? What are the learnings from your expansion into Brazil in years past? And for that matter what you've seen around the rest of packaging? What do you think you will do more effectively perhaps given your existing experience that will make your expansion in China and elsewhere around the world even more profitable than it would've been otherwise? And then I have a follow-on question.
I think the major thing as you look at expanding into various parts of the world and the one thing I think I learned from Brazil is the absolute need and the value that a good management team brings to you.
If you want to expand you need to have a top-level leader in that area and good management team run the operations that do the financials across the board.
You can't replace the need for a good management team.
Research Division</strong> And the other question I had and I'll turn it over I think you mentioned again in response to one of the other folk's question that you were looking at extending capital spending in 2014.
And I think you attributed to you have lots of good growth projects in the organization that are bubbling up.
As you think about this as we think about it and considering the fact that it sounds like your food customers are having a lot of difficulty with their own growth strategies otherwise you'd be putting up better volume growth what are the puts and takes in investing in this capital? You may have great projects but if your customers can't move the ball in volume how effective do you think those projects might be? I think they're very good prospects because they're really going around the change of the rigid where it's glass or cans into a flexible format.
You can think about the baby food aisle and all of those pouches you can think about the fruit slurries you can think about the alcoholic drinks you can think about soups and sauces that used to be in cans that are now in flexible -- that conversion is going on and a lot of what we are going to be putting into capacity is to support that kind of a conversion.
We'll take a follow-up from our Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just along those same lines Henry I mean I think we can all see kind of the growth in pouches and things like that and I think historically you guys have done a great job of continually selling kind of higher value added more sophisticated packaging.
But it just seems like what we're seeing right now is very static very soft volumes and I just wondered whether it's gotten harder to -- for you to really capitalize on more sophisticated packaging on your technical know-how? No I think it's very similar to what it has been in the past.
I mean some of the things I had pointed out we're in the leader in those areas.
We're the leader in our medical device packaging areas.
We're leading the changeover in this baby food category.
We're leading the changeover in the alcoholic beverages.
I think it's very much similar.
I just think it gets kind of masked in some of the multi-pack didn't sell as well bread bakeries towel and tissue.
Some of those areas kind of masked the good growth we have.
And the fact that you see our gross margins increasing verifies that those value-added products are coming to the Bemis Company.
And we have no further questions in the queue at this time.
Thank you very much for joining us today.
This ends our call for the third quarter.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Bemis Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Melanie Miller.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Welcome to our fourth quarter 2013 conference call.
Today is January 13 2014.
After today's call a replay will be available on our website bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are Bemis Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Henry Theisen; our Chief Operating Officer Bill Austen; our VP in Controller and interim Principal Financial Officer Jerry Krempa; and our new Director of Investor Relations Erin Winters.
Erin has been at Bemis for 12 years working in a variety of finance positions and was recently promoted to Director of Investor Relations for Bemis.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Erin.
Thank you Melanie.
Today Henry will begin with comments on business performance and market trends.
Bill will then discuss capital expenditures and growth opportunities.
And finally Jerry will cover financial statements and outlook for 2014.
After our comments we will answer any questions you have.
However in order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate we do ask that you limit yourself to one question at a time with a related follow-up and then fall back into the queue for any additional questions.
At this time I would like to direct you to our website bemis.com under the Investor Relations tab where you will find our press release along with the supplemental schedules that we have been including each quarter this year.
We'll be referring to these schedules at points throughout today's discussion.
On today's call we will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures as we discuss Bemis' performance.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures that we consider most comparable can be found in the press release and supplemental schedules.
I'd like to remind everyone that statements regarding future performance of the company made in this teleconference are forward-looking and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors including currency fluctuations changes in raw material costs and availability industry competition unexpected costs associated with information systems changes in customer order patterns the results of competitive bid processes our ability to pass along increased costs in our selling prices; interest rate fluctuations and regional economic conditions.
A more complete list of risk factors is included in our regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012.
Now I will turn the call over to Henry Theisen.
Well thank you Erin and thank you for joining us today.
Today we reported $0.54 per share for the fourth quarter and a record $2.28 for the full year 2013 in line with our most recent guidance.
Our fourth quarter results benefited from increased year-on-year volumes of high-barrier products across the globe highlighting the sustainability of improvements that we have made in our sales mix over the last 24 months.
Our working capital levels came down nicely generating $38 million in the fourth quarter alone and completely offsetting the use of cash for working capital during the first 3 quarters of the year.
We repurchased 1 million shares of our common stock in the fourth quarter bringing our remaining share repurchase authorization level to 2.5 million shares.
For the total year gross margins increased by 90 basis points compared to the full year 2012 reflecting the actions that we have taken to improve our product mix including increased market share of higher-value-added products where our technologies give us a sustainable advantage and the completion of the facility consolidation program.
While this is a nice improvement our gross margin would've been at least 30 points higher without the production transition challenges that we faced over the past 6 months.
Now that these issues are behind us we look forward to further improvement in 2014.
Our 2014 guidance of $2.40 to $2.55 represents an increase of 5% to 12% compared to last year.
Where we are in this range will depend upon the impact of the Brazilian currency raw material pricing the momentum of past volume trends and our successful commercialization of new business awards.
Let me give you some further color on these factors.
First it is important to note that we have a very successful packaging business centered in Brazil that serves a large Latin American packaging market.
From Mexico through Argentina this business represents just under $1 billion in sales and close to double-digit operating profit.
The Brazilian currency weakened by about 10% in 2013 and in the first month of 2014 it has further weakened by almost another 5% which creates a challenge when we translate those profits into dollars for reporting purposes.
Second raw material pricing.
Our guidance is based on announced increases in raw material at this time.
Otherwise we assume resin costs will be stable for the year.
Third sales volume momentum.
With the anniversary of our last plant closings coming in the second quarter we expect sales volume improvements to become more visible in 2014.
In 2013 we achieved higher U.S.
Flexible Packaging volumes in certain value-added products due to increased market share as well as general conversion of liquid products to flexible packaging formats.
This improvement was offset by generally lower volumes in beverage categories where consumer trends reduced demand.
In Latin America volume was substantially lower this year reflecting the negative impact of food inflation on consumer demand.
While higher prices offset much of the impact for the lower unit volumes on operating profit higher volume levels remain the key to improved profit in this region.
In Europe we continue to see improved stability in volume levels and our business teams remain focused on our strategic markets.
As we finish 2013 and enter early 2014 our orders and our backlog are strong across all geographies.
We are now cautiously optimistic about modestly higher volume trends going forward.
Our customers are launching new products that are targeted at specific age groups by offering brand extensions for toddlers school-age children teens and adults.
Using our proprietary technologies we provide unique packaging solutions that offer easy open and reclosable features microwavable formats on-the-go [indiscernible] sizes and tamper-evident structures to enhance the consumer experience.
Our R&amp;D teams use a rigorous process to evaluate opportunities and accelerate viable prospects to commercial scale.
As we identify worthwhile platforms in which to invest we expect the total R&amp;D spending to increase modestly toward 1% of net sales over the next few years.
During 2014 we continue to invest capital wisely and not accumulate cash.
Our priorities continue to be support our dividend program investment in capital projects fund strategic acquisitions and balance share repurchases while deleveraging.
With our leverage levels in check we repurchased a total of 2 million shares during 2013.
Our target of $500 million from cash for operations in 2014 will support further investment across the spectrum of opportunities.
I have asked Bill Austen our Chief Operating Officer to join us today to provide some additional detail regarding the new product pipeline and our increased guidance for capital expenditures in 2014.
Thanks Henry and good morning everyone.
We have a robust capital expenditure plan for 2014 that supports our long-term growth strategy.
In recent years we have been focused on integrating 25 acquired plants across 5 countries in addition to closing 9 plants impacted by our facility consolidation program.
At the same time we have been optimizing our specification portfolio.
Now that this hard work is complete we are focused on executing our growth agenda.
In 2014 we are investing in state-of-the-art capacity to support top line growth and further strengthen our competitive position.
We expect capital expenditures to be in the range of $175 million to $200 million this year.
This increased capital spending reflects investments to meet the growing liquid market needs to enhance our medical packaging capabilities and to expand our sealant and protective film extrusion platform in Asia.
In addition we are investing in select research and development projects that will create long-term growth opportunities.
Current market trends support these investments.
For example our customers have started the conversion process from glass and cans to flexible packaging especially in the liquid area.
At Bemis we offer unique liquid packaging solutions that provide the superior shield strength necessary to withstand lengthy distribution processes into retail markets.
As such we are expanding our operations with equipment that will meet this growing demand for flexible packaging of liquid products such as soups sauces fruit slurries meal kits and even personal care products.
For example in Latin America our liquid packaging solution helped one of our health and hygiene product customers convert its personal care line from a blow-molded bottle to a flexible standup pouch.
These personal care products contain oils and fragrances that are extremely difficult to contain and our unique barrier and sealant technologies solve this challenge.
And in Asia we are expanding our 9-layer extrusion capacity to support the increasing demand for medical device and pharmaceutical packaging from our global customers located in this region of the world.
This investment also supports our future expansion into the protein markets in China.
Our strategic investments in these key capabilities will support our long-term growth strategy to expand our leading position in high-barrier products medical and pharmaceutical packaging and in developing economies.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Jerry for his comments on the financial results.
Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
Today I will be discussing the 2013 financial results and also our 2014 guidance.
This morning Bemis Company reported fourth quarter 2013 adjusted earnings per share of $0.54 which was in the range of our recent quarterly guidance of $0.50 to $0.56 per share.
For the full year 2013 Bemis achieved record adjusted diluted earnings per share of $2.20 a 6% increase compared to 2012 earnings of $2.15 per share.
This improvement was driven by higher gross margins which increased to 19.3% of net sales in 2013 as compared to 18.4% in 2012.
Next I will walk through the sales and operating profit performance of each of our reportable segments.
When talking about sales today let's focus on Page 4 of the supplemental schedules that were posted to our website this morning as Erin had indicated.
This page provides detail on the changes in net sales by segment.
Looking at the total year column our U.S.
Packaging operations which represents about 60% of total Bemis annual sales saw a 1.8% decrease in 2013 total year net sales.
Excluding the 1.4% reduction in sales from the divestiture of the Clysar business and the 1.4% reduction from the optimization effect we experienced positive organic growth of 1% for the year 2013.
This 1% organic growth in U.S.
Packaging was primarily driven by increases in meat cheese dairy and liquid packaging which is consistent with our strategy to pursue high-barrier packaging applications.
As Henry mentioned we are especially pleased by the sales momentum seen in the fourth quarter of 2013 where organic growth reached 2.8%.
This increase is noted on Page 4 of the supplemental schedules in the fourth quarter column.
Let me step back for a moment to explain what is meant by the optimization effect.
The optimization effect is the impact of those sales dollars that we chose not to transition in conjunction with the facility consolidation program during the past 2 years.
Essentially optimization effect represents sales that had margins lower than what we considered acceptable to support the cost of moving the production to another facility.
Optimization effect only refers to business impacted by the facility consolidation program and not to business impacted by the ongoing effort to improve our sales mix.
With the optimization impact isolated the performance of the core business is shown as organic on the supplemental schedules and is our version of same-store sales.
Before I discuss U.S.
Packaging operating profit I would like to remind everyone that during 2012 we harmonized certain accounting practices on a global basis in connection with the enterprise resource planning system implementation.
The net effect of this policy harmonization reduced total Bemis operating profit by approximately $2 million in 2012.
Specifically the 2012 policy harmonization resulted in a favorable $13.8 million adjustment for U.S.
Packaging an unfavorable $16.4 million adjustment for Global Packaging and a small favorable $500 000 adjustment for Pressure Sensitive.
As we discuss operating profit comparisons below I will exclude the impact of these adjustments so that we are discussing numbers on a more comparable apples-to-apples basis.
U.S.
Packaging operating profit in 2013 was 12.8% of net sales compared to 13% of net sales in 2012.
During 2013 we did realize benefits from an improved sales mix in U.S.
Packaging.
However this benefit was offset by higher production costs experienced during the second half of 2013 related to the final installation of certain equipment that was relocated as a result of our facility consolidation program.
Let me switch the discussion to our Global Packaging operations which represents about 30% of total Bemis annual sales.
Looking again at the total year column on Page 4 of the supplemental schedules our Global Packaging operations reported a net sales decrease of 3.3% in 2013.
Currency movement negatively impacted sales by 4.8% which as Henry mentioned earlier is related to the weakness in the Brazilian real.
The acquisition of our extrusion platform in Foshan China increased sales by 2.8% while facility consolidation-related plant closings decreased sales by 3% in 2013.
The remaining 1.7% organic growth in our Global Packaging operations was driven primarily by higher selling prices in 2013.
Operating profit for this segment was 7.1% of net sales in 2013 as compared to 7% in 2012.
The impact of currency negatively impacted Global Packaging operating profit by $6.9 million in 2013 which was driven by the weaker Brazilian real.
In our Pressure Sensitive Materials segment which represents about 10% of total Bemis annual sales net sales for 2013 decreased about 0.005% compared to 2012.
In this segment a benefit from currency translation of 1.1% was offset by a decrease in organic sales of 1.5%.
Operating profit for the Pressure Sensitive Materials segment decreased to 5.4% of net sales compared to 6.8% in 2012.
Most of this decrease resulted from lower European sales of higher-margin graphics products sold for advertising and promotional applications.
We would expect improvement in operating profit as the European economy begins to strengthen.
Total selling general and administrative expense as a percent of net sales was approximately 10% in both 2013 and 2012.
We expect consistent levels of this expense in 2014.
During 2013 our business teams focused on prudently managing accounts receivable and inventory levels resulting in nominal impact to cash flows from operations for the full year.
Capital expenditures in 2013 were approximately $140 million.
As expected spending ramped up during the fourth quarter representing down payments on equipment that will support the growth projects Bill mentioned.
Our leverage metric net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 2.1x at the end of 2013 in line with 2012 and close to our target of 2x.
We purchased 2 million shares of stock during 2013 half of this amount in the first quarter and half just recently in the fourth quarter.
Looking ahead at our 2014 earnings per share guidance.
For the first quarter of the year we expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $0.55 to $0.60 per share.
Our first quarter is typically one of the slowest volume quarters of the year while the second and third quarters are seasonally stronger.
We expect total year adjusted diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $2.40 to $2.55.
Depreciation and amortization is expected to be approximately $190 million in 2014 with capital expenditures in the range of $175 million to $200 million.
These expenditures will support increased customer demand for high-barrier products and will further strengthen our competitive position.
Cash flow from operations for 2014 is expected to exceed $500 million.
The increase from the 2013 cash flow of $373 million reflects the benefit of improved operating performance and the fully funded status of our pension plans as well as the elimination of facility consolidation spending that existed in 2013.
We expect our effective tax rate to be 35% in 2014.
Thank you for your time today.
We will now open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was just curious on raw material increases for 2014 you said you were only basing your increases an annualized -- or sorry announced price increases so far.
Can you just...
Correct Scott.
Research Division</strong> Yes can you just give us a sense for what sort of year-over-year increase that would be on resin prices the announced price increases so far? Well the announced price increase in polyethylene is $0.04 per pound.
And that's what we baked in.
We look further down during the year prices are very volatile in raw material.
Sometimes they go up sometimes they go down.
We really can't predict what they're going to do in October November or July or whatever.
So the best thing for us to do is just bake in what we know is on the table today.
And that way everybody can evaluate our guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up there was some discussion in the industry in 4Q around pricing being a bit more aggressive on pricing to offset some of these raw material increases.
What did you see in your business? Were you guys a little bit more aggressive around customers trying to get some of these increased costs back? I think we've been aggressive for a long period of time recognizing that when these raw materials come through we have to pass them on.
They're such an important component of our overall operating profit that if we don't pass it through we don't make our guidance we don't make our EPS.
So I think the -- it's been very competitive in the past.
It's still extremely competitive.
We work very hard to pass all the raw material costs.
And I really don't see a change in this over the year 2013.
And we'll take our next question from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My two questions are around CapEx.
I guess first question on the -- you did a good job of delineating where you're spending relative to end markets and products.
Is it possible to discuss what kind of required rate of return you're putting on these projects or what kind of payback you are hoping to get in terms of years? And then the other question would be I thought I heard Jerry say some of the spending is also to improve competitive positioning which in my view would be improving productivity putting in new equipment replacing older equipment.
Can you give us some details there? Return on invested capital is very important for the Bemis Company.
We've been emphasizing this for the last few years and we will continue to emphasize it.
Every new CapEx program goes through a rigorous process here where we take a look at what return on invested capital that will be.
It has to be higher than what we currently operate at.
It has to be accretive to our ROIC so it grows in the future.
We also take a look at risk based on where it is on the globe.
Putting capital into Brazil is more risky because of the real than say putting it here in the U.S.
So we are very concerned about return on invested capital and growing our margins in this business.
The second part of your question was around more -- being more competitive.
Sometimes we put in equipment that -- we're very happy here.
We've got a lot of good R&amp;D projects coming up a lot of good programs coming in which we think are going to put us in a better cost position.
We're going to be investing in that type of equipment.
That will give us a better cost position.
It will be more sustainable.
We use less polymers to deliver the same convenience features the same extended shelf life the same barriers.
So part of it is that part of it is new products coming out and part of it is we're trying to get in some new markets around pharmaceutical and also some of the things that we picked up with our acquisition in China that give us a little foray into the electronics business.
So it's kind of a combination of all those things.
And we'll take our next question from Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on CapEx.
2014 obviously you're going to have a bit of a step-up in CapEx to take advantage of some of these opportunities.
And I'm just wondering as we look to '15 or '16 is there a normalized level of CapEx or would you expect to step down back to kind of the $130 million $140 million range? Or how should we think about maybe a normalized level of CapEx beyond '14? I think that'd be a good question Bill for you as Chief Operating Officer to answer.
Thanks Henry.
As we look out into '15 and '16 and beyond I don't see it stepping down to a normalized rate in '15.
But beyond that we'll probably come down to a normalized a little bit lower rate than D&amp;A.
But as we go through '15 it will be at the D&amp;A rate as well.
That's what our plans are today.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe just a question on the volume outlook that you had or that you communicated at the beginning of the call.
It seemed like a little bit more of a positive view on order books and what you're seeing in the market or with your customers early in the year.
And I'm just wondering is that a reflection of maybe consumer confidence picking up? Or are you doing better with specific customers? Or given your weighting to food are you seeing some improvement in the food category? I'm just wondering if you can give us any kind of color on the order book strength that you referenced and where you think that's coming from? Well I think it really comes from 3 areas.
The first one is and we've talked about it in the past is the rigid to flexible conversion.
Our customers don't have to be selling say for instance more soup than they did in the past but you're going to see some of it in a standup pouch versus a can.
So we're picking up some growth just by switching from the rigid format to the flexible format.
In other areas we are taking market share based on the products based on being able to service our customers based on being able to meet their demands as far as lead times and things because of our size and the amount of equipment we have.
And finally we're starting to get a little bit more growth in our new product platforms.
So it's a combination of all 3 things.
And we'll take our next question from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Henry one question just a follow-up to the previous question.
Are you seeing any underlying improvement in food and beverage volume in the U.S.? Or are they more company-specific factors that are making you more optimistic about volume this year? Well overall beverage has been a weakness for us in 2013 and I think it's going to be a weakness for us in 2014 especially with the carbonated area.
So that I think is going to continue to perform weaker than it has in the past much in line with 2013.
But if you move to other things like medical device packaging or even the food packaging I don't want to say there's an optimism but our customers just seem to have a little more step than they did a year ago.
There just seems to be a little more better feeling about going forward than there was a year ago.
I can't pin it down to anything specific but it's just a general feel.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then in terms of your 2014 guidance obviously you'll have $10 million of additional cost savings.
And it looks like you'll have a higher tax rate that could roughly offset lower interest expense.
So how do you bridge the gap between the $2.28 that you reported in '13 and the $2.48 or so that you're guiding to this year? Is most of the rest just volume? And are there any acquisitions or buybacks embedded in the guidance? The guidance -- this is Melanie.
The guidance doesn't include any acquisitions or share buybacks.
It's essentially the addition of -- it ends up being a nice improvement that we finally get to recognize from the savings in our facility consolidation program now that these additional costs are behind us.
In addition we expect to have some savings associated with a reduction in we'll call it general retirement benefit costs or pension plan costs going down offset by some increase in profit-sharing plan expenses going forward.
But that will be a net benefit as well.
And then just general improvement.
As Henry mentioned modest growth in volume.
We're very leveraged to volume now so a little bit of volume would be nice to the bottom line.
And we'll take our next question from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> I just wanted some guidance and you might have gone through this on how we should expect corporate expense to flow both on an annual basis in '14 and '15 and I know there's some compensation variability and how it might flow through by quarter in '14? The best way to look at it by quarter is I think just to -- we would look at it evenly.
Now there are some fluctuations especially in the second half of the year as we adjust accruals based upon the actual performance in the first half of the year especially as it relates to incentive programs.
But -- and we had a decrease in that corporate expense line in 2013 that really reflects a change in pension costs and incentive costs year-over-year and some one-time charges or I would say reversals of charges that occurred back in the end of 2012.
Going forward I think though 2013 is the more normal year as you look at the expenses and SG&amp;A costs if you look back on the income statement in general.
And so that plus inflation would be a normal number to look towards in 2014.
LLC</strong> And does that mean something like around $90 million? Or did you tell us sort of what the full-year number would be about? Probably in excess of $90 million if you look at the total year for 2014.
But yes something -- it's something that as we -- we don't really plan that number.
We're really looking at the income statement.
And on the income statement you're seeing R&amp;D expense that's a little bit higher in 2013.
We think that it'll be a modestly higher number in 2014.
And in addition as we see some modest sales growth in 2014 we think SG&amp;A as a percent of sales is going to be still in that 10% range.
And you're going to see relatively the same level of growth then as we go into 2014.
We'll take our next question from Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I had a quick question on your Global segment.
You guys generally sound a little more upbeat about U.S.
but how are you thinking about Global particularly Brazil just because you guys flagged the real was going to be a headwind? And how should we be thinking about the earnings sensitivity on currency on that front? As we look at Brazil food inflation is a major component of what's going on down in Brazil.
And we'll also see other general inflations that -- going on in Brazil.
We are being very concerned and sensitized to raising our prices as raw materials go up.
We are maintaining our market share in that business and we're expanding into some markets but food inflation is a headwind that we have to fight through this year.
And I think we did a very good job of fighting through it in 2013.
In reais our operating profits were up substantial even though the volumes weren't there.
And we're going to continue to those same programs that we put in place in 2013 to maintain our operating and grow our operating profit even in the face of these issues.
And as you look at this year just to talk a little bit about the reais impact as you're talking about that.
This year the real moved about 10% and that was about a $7 million hit to the Global Packaging segment.
So going forward that sort of sizes the operating profit impact to you as you look at 2014.
And we'll take our next question from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions for you.
First an easy one.
Could you give us an update on where you are with the CFO search? Are you looking internal external maybe some timing of when you anticipate how far along you are et cetera? We have a good process in place.
We started that process immediately after Scott moved on.
And we have a process in place.
We're working the process in place.
And I think we'll have a CFO sometime here in the first half of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay first half of the year.
Okay so second question is and I'd echo George's comments thank you for the color as you went through the components of the kind of sales bridge as you broke that out for us.
Would -- I just want to make sure I'm understanding something correctly.
I mean the optimization effect as you described it was due to as you've gone through and closed 9 facilities and business you chose not to retain any longer.
Now that you've got most all of these facilities closed and rebalanced and where you want them are we effectively done with giving up lower margin business et cetera such that that optimization effect should kind of net to 0? That's kind of first part.
So my question really is around kind of movement from here forward in '14.
So one are we effectively done with optimization or is there more of that to go what's the run rate? And then kind of the element within there is from an organic basis what are you anticipating then as we move forward? You talked about your gut feeling being a little bit of growth.
Is that 1 point is that 3 points? Or how do you think about that? Well first off I'll take the optimization question.
That is done.
The equipment has been moved.
The businesses have been moved.
We are running the business and serving our customers in the facilities where we want that business to run.
That is over with.
We will see the normal gain some business lose some business that goes on every year in a normal fashion.
So the optimization effect is over.
The second part of your question we look at in the -- I'll just kind of break it down by the 3 segments.
We kind of look in the U.S.
the U.S.
Packaging is -- we think we're going to do a little bit better than GDP.
So that puts you in that 2% 3% area.
Likewise we think we think we'll do a little bit better in our Global Operations and that kind of varies Brazil has a little bit different growth than Europe.
But I think overall we'll be slightly better than GDP in our rest-of-world operations and in our U.S.
Pressure Sensitive is going to depend really on the economy of Europe because that's really a graphics or advertising-type business.
And we'll take our next question from Mark Wilde with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wondered -- I had 2 questions.
I wondered first if you can just help us in bridging that cash flow from operations from the $373 million to the $500 plus million in 2014.
It sounds like from your EPS guidance that that should be about a $30 million piece and I just wondered if you could talk about the other elements there.
I think you mentioned pension and you mentioned lack of facility rationalization costs.
Right.
And so if you look at Page 3 of the supplemental schedules you'll see that in 2013 we spent $52 million on facility consolidation.
That reduced our number -- it was part of the reduction to $373 million in 2013.
That we expect to be 0 in 2014.
In addition we had $40 million of pension contributions in 2013.
And our pension funds are now -- the ones in the U.S.
where we're making large contributions are over 100% funded.
And we do not anticipate any pension contributions in 2014.
So with those 2 items behind us we can even look back and recalculate 2013 cash flow to be substantially higher.
And then it's just growth and better management of working capital our continued good management of working capital going forward.
And we'll take our next question from Al Kabili with Macquarie.
Question I guess Henry is on just some of the new business.
And if you could help us maybe with the visibility you have there to the degree you do.
But if you just aggregate all of that is there a flavor or a sense you could give us as to what kind of boost to volumes that would be in '14 and maybe how that compared to this time of year last year? I think that that kind of goes back to the question that came up a little earlier that we expect to do slightly better than GDP.
And so that puts you -- some of these high-barrier applications are going to give us 2% 3% growth in volumes.
And it's going to be slightly better than the GDP.
And I would add Al that if you think about where our new business is and especially in our new products and the new platforms that we're investing in some of those new products for Bemis are as Henry was saying and Bill was saying too a conversion from a different format a glass a can or a rigid bottle into a plastic.
So that would be growth for us.
But in addition there are also opportunities where we will be upgrading or changing the package that we're supplying to an existing customer.
So that may be new products new package for Bemis or increase in using our new products we're issuing.
But it's -- the old package was also a Bemis package just a lower margin one.
So we're sort of trading up our existing customers at the same time as we're seeing the market itself for flexible packaging grow with the transition from rigid.
Okay.
And then the second question I had is just as the CapEx ramps up in '14 from some of the new capacity you're adding just in terms of how that rolls in and ramps up from an earnings perspective.
Are there -- is that immediately accretive to earnings? Or oftentimes when you're adding new capacity there's fixed cost absorption and D&amp;A headwinds et cetera and it takes a little while to sort of fill that all up.
So I was just wondering if you could help us with how you see the cadence from the new capacities and how that sort of ramps to earnings? Well let me turn that one over to Bill who's in charge of ramping the stuff up for us.
A lot of this new capacity Al comes on as we get through the year of 2014.
So you start to see the ramp-up in earnings or the addition to earnings as we get into 2015.
There won't be much of an impact in 2014.
And we'll take our next question from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One Henry can you remind us how your contracts work in terms of being able to recover raw material costs and whether there have been any changes nuance changes as you've gone through the optimization program over the last 12 months? I will say this that we worked hard and changes over the last few years have been really cleaning up the contracts that we had inherited with the Alcan acquisition.
Most of our contracts are now 3-month contracts.
In other words you get to pass through either the increase in raw materials or the decrease in raw materials on a 90-day basis.
And we are very diligent in doing that.
If a price increase happens in the first month it takes 90 days to pass it through; if it happens on the 89th day it goes immediately.
Likewise if raw materials fall during the course of that time we can have 89 days of lower raw material costs or we can have 1 day of lower raw material cost.
But basically the contracts fire [indiscernible] escalated the escalators every 90 days.
And there really has been no change at all in those contracts since we've cleaned up the Alcan pieces.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful Henry.
So essentially it seems like even there are changes in the raw material cost that may impact the company for a quarter beyond that really the way that the contracts are structured you really have essentially the full pass-through of the raw material? That's 100% correct.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the M&amp;A pipeline.
What are you guys seeing across the businesses that you're in? And what's the appetite to do further bolt-on deals in '14? Well we would like to have some good acquisitions.
We look for acquisitions that are going to add technology to our company or give us access to new markets or new customers.
There's a lot of stuff that goes on in there.
If there is something going on in our industry or something related to our industry Bemis will know about it and have an opportunity.
But right now there's nothing imminent.
And we'll take a follow-up from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Henry first question is on Global Packaging.
So recognizing that we haven't had this segment in its current form for a long period of time when you look back historically at how the Global segment performed what kind of growth rate what kind of margin is possible in I realize this is subjective but a normal year a good year? My goal and the goal of our company is to get our Global rest-of-world packaging business to be double digit to get it up into that 10%-return-on-sales area.
And I think you're going to see -- right now we're about 7% 7.1%.
I think you're going to see us over the next 2 to 3 years make progress and get to that 10% level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second question is more a point of clarification on some of the things that you're just -- you were saying earlier.
Number one realizing that return on capital is important to you do you in fact have a payback period a return on capital threshold with the new projects in? Secondly on volume I think you were answering Alex's question before.
I know you're saying you should do better 2% to 3% better than GDP but -- or you're looking for 2% or 3% volume growth.
But GDP is going to be 2% 3% this year.
So really what kind of volume growth are you looking for across your 2 packaging business? Well we're really looking for volume growth that's a little bit better than GDP.
Whatever GDP is we expect to beat that slightly.
A little modest growth over GDP.
So if GDP is 2% to 3% it's reasonable for us to say maybe 2% to 4%.
So something a little bit better.
With regards to ROIC and the payback period it really depends upon -- based upon the detailed process that we go through it's really individual valuation by project and then looking at the return relative to the business that it supports and in the geography that that particular piece of equipment supports.
So it varies but we are specifically focused on when it comes to production equipment some pretty quick returns.
And as Bill suggested it's not going to be a 2014 event where we've got a lot of new business coming in 2014.
For the most part these are investments in 2014 that we expect to get benefits from very quickly in 2015 and 2016.
So certainly it'll be a pretty quick turnaround with regard to production equipment.
When you get to investments in R&amp;D platforms there there's a little bit longer timeline.
It's a different measure.
But still there's a qualification a rigorous qualification process that our engineers go through in order to evaluate the appropriates of the investment and when we are going to start seeing commercial sales from those platforms.
And we'll take our next question from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> Yes and you might have addressed this.
If I missed it I apologize.
But when you look at your balance sheet and the cash flow changed and it was great to get that detail about the swing in pension and the restructuring costs going away.
How do you kind of look at the priorities of buybacks versus further deleveraging or M&amp;A? As we said earlier if we are happy with our position at about 2.1x leverage that we talked about earlier in the day and it's just going to depend upon what opportunities are available to us.
We're going to take a look at all the M&amp;A opportunities out there.
Is it the right one for us? Does it fit us? Do we have opportunities for organic growth that we have to support CapEx or we have to support some R&amp;D investments? And then share repurchases are on the table as the cash comes in.
So it's just going to be what opportunities and what things we have that we can do with that cash at the time.
And underscoring that Henry I would add that it is not -- we don't intend to accumulate cash.
The cash fluctuates a little bit on our balance sheet because of the geography that it happens to sit in but we have made a lot of changes in the way that we're managing cash in order to access that cash even around the world.
And we intend to minimize the cash on the balance sheet and manage to a certain 2.0x leverage level.
To the extent that we have excess cash and we obviously have a lot of strong cash flow expected going forward out of this business we'll be looking in all those opportunities including share repurchases as Henry mentioned.
LLC</strong> And then just as a quick follow-up.
There's been a few questions around the normalized growth rate kicking up to about a GDP level.
And I guess if we assume -- if we get back to that past rate of 2.5% 3% I guess the question I have is when you look at population growth it's tended to be about 1 point of that 3 and productivity has been 2 points of that.
And since most of your packaging goes into food I would have to assume you expect to gain some significant share year-on-year in the packaging space since I certainly wouldn't expect people to -- certainly hope they don't eat 2% more each year.
I know my wife tells me I don't need to.
No I think -- you're right.
And it kind of comes from 2 things.
I think just our -- the products we make the size we have our ability to service our key customers.
We're going to get some market share in the products that we currently make.
But we're also going to get growth.
It may not be growth for the consumer.
But as we talked before it's going to be soup being in a standup pouch instead of a can.
It's going to be in ketchup in a standup pouch instead of a rigid bottle.
It's going to be in soups and sauces.
When you go onto the baby food aisle and you see the conversion it used to all be in glass and now it's in a foil standup pouch.
So it's kind of a combination of the shift to more and more flexible from the rigid programs and also just where we stand with our current products and what we deliver we'll gain some market share.
And we'll take a follow-up question from Mark Wilde of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Henry I'd like to just come back to the Global Packaging segment for a minute.
I think in your comments you mentioned that Brazil was just a little less than $1 billion -- Brazil and Latin America were a little less $1 billion of the $1.5 billion in sales in that segment and that the EBIT margins were close to 10%.
So if I look at the whole segment and it's got 7.1% it implies that the profitability in the other $0.5 billion of non- Latin American sales is actually quite low.
Can you just -- can you talk about that a little bit? Am I missing something? No no no I think you're analyzing it pretty well.
Europe has been a problem for us over the last few years.
We've talked about that.
We're starting to see a little bit of strength in Europe as we focus on those products.
And we're starting to get some market share but our European Flexible business has been a burden for us over the last few years.
And we made some significant investments over the last couple of years in China.
And we're starting to take a -- we're starting to get an opportunity to grow our margins there.
We bought into that knowing that it wasn't quite time yet for our technological products.
So we bought in and we got into some markets there that have some lower margins and we knowingly did that to get a foot in the door to develop a business to develop a management team to start to understand the area.
We know that's a region in the world longer-term we're going to have to grow in.
So we took a little bit of hits to our margins but we are there now and we are accomplishing developing a management team.
We're starting to see more and more needs for our types of packaging.
In China they finally put together their first version of our FDA with some of the food safety issues.
So -- and we see quite a few of our medical customers start to put businesses into that part of the world.
So that was an investment.
And just to clarify the math for you as we talk about our Latin America business being slightly under $1 billion that includes a sizable business in Mexico which also has a pretty low margin at this point.
It's improved since we acquired a big portion of it from Alcan but it still is certainly below average for the Global Packaging business.
So Mexico Europe and Asia are all areas where we have some room for improvement to get up to that double-digit operating profit in the near future for Global Packaging.
And offsetting that is a pretty healthy medical and pharma business as Henry said where we've got some nice margins around the globe just because it's a more complex high-barrier type of product line.
And we'll take our next question from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Henry sorry to harp on the volume issue but you had if memory serves some market share gains in 2013.
And you've previously talked about the shift from rigid to plastics.
So I guess I'm just trying to better understand what's different this year than last year in terms of volume? I know you said your customers are feeling a bit better but anything beyond that? More share gains perhaps than what you had last year? I think there's a couple of things that go into that.
First off we're done with the facility consolidation.
There's a lot of effort that goes into doing that.
And that frees up our sales team.
Instead of our salespeople worrying about how to make sure their customer is serviced they're now looking for more growth opportunities.
They're out there trying to get more market share.
Our R&amp;D groups and our manufacturing are working on being now that they have the business to be more productive opening up capacity for us to expand.
So I think there's a lot to it.
The other is we're not shedding as much off the bottom.
It's difficult to show really the good profitable volume growth that we had last year when you have certain areas subtracting from it.
So I think what you're going to do is you're just going to see more of an emphasis on growing the business.
You're not going to have the detraction of the consolidation.
And you're not going to have that bottom end of the business subtracting from the total number.
And we'll take a follow-up from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My last 2 questions guys.
First off I think piggybacking off of Mark's question you're putting in a 9-layer extrusion line in China.
How do you protect the intellectual property around that around the Bemis know-how that ultimately doesn't walk out the door when your employees go home at night? That's question number one.
Question number two yes I think we've talked maybe about this a long time ago not more recently.
Pressure Sensitive Material it's 10% of the portfolio.
The company has had over the years different approaches to whether that would stay in the portfolio or not.
How core do you see PSM in the business? And if it was less core -- well certainly it is less core than flexible.
If it was less core than you wanted it to be do you see the same obstacles to perhaps divesting of it as had been the case say 10 15 years ago? Our Pressure Sensitive business is you're right is about 10% of our total sales.
Every year that we take a look at our portfolio -- last year we decided it was time to divest Clysar because it didn't sell.
So every year we review our portfolio.
Our Pressure Sensitive is part of it now.
We are leveraging our medical device business and growing Pressure Sensitive in some areas.
But it does remain out there as a question.
George I'll take the one on China.
This is Bill.
It's a great question and obviously it's a risk.
But many companies have put technology into China and been able to keep it and there are processes established specifically at the company that we purchased NCS where they segregate the duties so that there isn't one individual or group of individuals that understands the entire process or package if you will.
So there's a segregation of duties and those segregation of duties keep that specification unknown to the entire group.
So they've been doing this for a while.
They actually have patents on some of their film structures and they've been able to maintain those.
So we've been able to understand and learn that process and now we have those procedures and practices in the facility as well.
You bring up a good question on protecting your technology.
Just because you put in a 9-layer line doesn't mean you're going to move your most technical and proprietary products.
We can use that 9-layer line to make some things and upgrade the technology that they have but not yet send over our most technical and proprietary technologies.
And understand the packaging sophistication that's there today is -- the requirement for packaging sophistication is nowhere near what it is in the U.S.
So you don't put to Henry's point the latest and greatest there out of the chute.
It develops over time.
And we'll take a follow-up from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Henry I wanted to go back on the volume question and again apologies to harp on it.
But I guess where I struggle is it's not just 2013 that the volumes were below GDP.
But if I look at the business during '11 and '12 and '13 they were materially below where GDP growth was.
GDP was positive 2% the volumes were flat to negative even if I adjust for the optimization in my model.
And I agree with you that over the last 20 years Flexibles has grown a little bit above GDP but looking at your business that has been the case for the last 3 years.
So I guess how do we get comfortable that we see this acceleration in '14 to a 2% to 4% volume number where it's just been nowhere close to that in the last 3 years? This is Melanie Alex.
The -- if you look at volume over the last 3 years it's been a very unusual time in Bemis history.
In 2010 we acquired the Alcan Food Americas business that increased our business size by 40%.
And really the exercise in 2010 was really focused on the existing customers that we had and that we acquired and making sure that all of them were being serviced properly.
So we were very inwardly focused on our existing business and retaining what we had.
As we came into 2011 we had this enormous increase in food prices.
There was food inflation in the grocery stores.
It wasn't net -- it was also increase in resin costs but what impacted demand in 2011 was an increase in food prices that just reduced demand specifically in the areas that we serve in branded products.
With food inflation so high a lot of the consumers were moving into private label and fewer brand products.
And while we serve both sides of that we do a lot in both areas of the market we obviously have a very large share in the branded side.
And so that impacted our volumes as we got into 2011.
2012 we closed -- started closing some plants.
And all of the same-store sales schedule that we showed you with the optimization effect on Page 4 of the supplemental schedules all of that was going on in 2012 as well.
We didn't start tracking it until 2013 when it became a more difficult conversation to have in trying to explain the changes in our volume.
But we had plant closings all through 2012 and plant closings also in 2013.
Now as Henry and Bill said as we get -- as we ended 2013 we've got a lot of positive momentum within the business organically.
If you ignore this optimization effect that we're about to anniversary and is going to 0 now we've got some positive momentum.
We're seeing strong orders in backlog.
We're seeing conversion to our type of packaging.
And all of those things plus our focus on new products and new customers and new outlets for our products in the market all of those things give us the confidence that we're going to start seeing some modest volume growth.
And modest volume growth being maybe 2% to 3% 2% to 4%.
So we're not talking 10% to 20% growth.
We're talking something a little bit more normal -- normalized for our market.
And I agree with you that it's been very slow the last couple of years.
But we see 2014 as a turning point and a different year for Bemis and for the market compared to what we've seen the last couple of years.
And we have no further questions over the phones.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Erin Winters for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
Thank you all for joining us today.
This concludes our conference call.
This concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Bemis Company hosted First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Erin Winters.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Welcome to our first quarter 2014 conference call.
Today is April 24 2014.
After today's call a replay will be available on our website bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are Bemis Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Henry Theisen; our Chief Operating Officer Bill Austen; our Vice President and Controller and interim Principal Financial Officer Jerry Krempa; and our Vice President and Treasurer Melanie Miller.
Today Henry will begin with comments on business performance and outlook for the remainder of 2014 and then Jerry will cover the financial statements.
After our comments we will answer any questions you have.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to direct you to our website bemis.com under the Investor Relations tab where you will find our press release along with our supplemental schedules.
We'll be referring to these schedules at points throughout today's discussion.
On today's call we will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures as we talk about Bemis' performance.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures that we consider most comparable can be found in the press release and the supplemental schedules.
I'd like to remind everyone that statements regarding future performance of the company made in this teleconference are forward-looking and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors.
Please refer to Bemis Company's regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 to review these risk factors.
Now I'll turn the call over to Henry Theisen.
Thank you Erin and thank you for joining us today.
Today we reported adjusted earnings of $0.58 per share for the first quarter of 2014 an increase of 9.4% over the prior first quarter and in line with our most recent guidance.
During the first quarter we benefited from strong pricing discipline a stabilizing European economy and our growing business in China.
We prudently controlled costs refocused resources on our core business and repurchased 1.1 million shares of stock.
Unit volumes were lower than expected driven by inflationary pressures in Brazil along with the slowdown at our customers who were challenged by recent weather events in North America.
While these weather events also created some headwinds at our own plants our business teams did a great job of managing operations to minimize the impact.
As we enter our seasonally strong second quarter we are seeing the normal increase in orders from our customers.
During this first quarter we executed plans that support our goals of margin improvement and value-added volume growth.
For example in Brazil we expanded our capacity to produce high-barrier films to meet the demand for protein packaging.
In Europe we brought up additional multilayer capacity to support the growing need for roll stock in high-barrier shrink applications for fresh meat and cheese.
In North America we are starting up new capacity on a barrier sheet line that will support increasing demand for shelf-stable and refrigerated liquid applications such as coffee creamers pudding cups yogurt cups and single-serve coffee formats.
In addition our robust 2014 capital expenditure plan will further support the expanding market for standup pouch formats reflecting the continuing product launches that require superior sealability and barrier properties.
We accelerated innovation by introducing new products to our customers that will deliver measurable volumes to support our growth objectives during the remaining of 2014.
For example in Brazil we scaled up a unique flexible standup pouch for vegetables that replaced the metal can and provides freshness without refrigeration or preservatives.
In the United States our packaging solution is supporting the launch of single-serve protein snack packs for a variety of brands.
In Asia we qualified our proprietary films for our new extrusion facility in Foshan China for use in stringent medical packaging applications produced for our Asia-based customers.
This quarter we completed the sale of Paper Packaging Division.
The sale of this division narrows our focus to our higher-margin markets and the growth opportunities in high-barrier flexible packaging medical and pharmaceutical packaging and packaging for developing markets in Asia Pacific.
In addition we announced the closure of our Pressure Sensitive plant in Stow Ohio.
We expect this plant closure to improve market competitiveness and to better position our Pressure Sensitive Materials business for long-term growth.
We appreciate the dedication and talents of the employees involved in this initiative.
With the closure of this facility we substantially eliminate the use of solvent in our Pressure Sensitive Materials operations which will also contribute to our environmental sustainability commitment to reduce solvent usage by 20% by the year 2020.
In our Pressure Sensitive Materials segment we are also pleased by the strengthening economic environment in Europe that stimulated the increase in value-added graphics products sold during the first quarter of 2014.
With respect to raw materials suppliers implemented a polyethylene cost increase during the first quarter.
Specialty resins were relatively stable during this quarter.
We are confirming our guidance for the full year of 2014 in the range of $2.40 to $2.55.
As mentioned at the beginning of the year where we are within this range will depend upon the impact of the Brazilian currency raw material pricing the momentum of positive volume trends and our continued successful commercialization of new business awards.
Second quarter EPS guidance is in the range of $0.61 to $0.66.
As we enter our seasonally strong second quarter we are confident in our positive volume outlook given our current customer order levels.
Our business teams are commercializing new opportunities and we are confident in the margin growth and return on invested capital improvement that we will deliver.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Jerry for his comments.
Thank you Henry and good morning everyone.
Before we get into color on the income statement I would like to highlight a couple of unique items related to the first quarter of 2014 that are reflected on our reconciliation of non-GAAP earnings per share that was included in our earnings release and are also shown on Page 3 of the supplemental schedules that Erin previously mentioned.
There are 2 items that reconcile our GAAP earnings of $0.48 per share to our non-GAAP earnings of $0.58 per share.
First as Henry mentioned we announced the closure of our Pressure Sensitive Materials plant in Stow Ohio.
Operations at this facility are scheduled to cease during May.
In the first quarter of 2014 we recorded a pretax charge of approximately $25 million or $0.16 per share related to this closure.
This charge primarily affected cost of products sold on the income statement and was excluded from the calculation of adjusted diluted earnings per share.
The charge includes an estimated settlement of a multiemployer pension plan liability employee severance and benefit costs and fixed asset-related expenses.
We expect the charges in 2014 to total approximately $30 million.
The second unique item this quarter was a sale of our Paper Packaging Division on March 31.
Net proceeds from the transaction totaled $79.8 million.
A $9.4 million pretax gain on the sale was recorded as part of other nonoperating income and was excluded from the calculation of adjusted diluted earnings per share as noted on Page 3 of the supplemental schedules.
Proceeds from the sale will be directed towards our capital allocation priorities this year.
Next I will walk through the sales and operating profit performance of each of our reportable segments.
As I discuss sales focus on Page 4 of the supplemental schedules which provides detail on the year-over-year changes in net sales by segment.
Beginning with our U.S.
Packaging operations at the top of the page which represents about 60% of total Bemis annual sales we saw a 1% decrease in first quarter net sales as compared to the first quarter of last year.
The primary driver of this decrease was the divestiture of the Clysar business last year.
The 1.6% organic growth in the first quarter of 2014 represents the net favorable impact of increased price mix partially offset by lower overall unit volumes.
While volumes for processed meat cheese and dairy packaging were up modestly compared to last year we saw single-digit declines in volumes for fresh meat dry foods and confectionery and snack applications.
These lower volumes generally reflect the impact of weather events in North America as Henry mentioned earlier.
One volume exception was an over-wrap for bottled water where we saw double-digit increases in the first quarter as a result of the weather.
U.S.
Packaging operating profit for the first quarter of 2014 was 12.4% of net sales which compares to an adjusted operating profit of 12.8% of net sales in the first quarter of 2013.
While we incurred some weather-related costs associated with energy and transportation in the quarter the key impact to operating profit stems from lower unit volumes and the resulting fixed cost absorption challenge.
Let me move on to a discussion of our Global Packaging operations which represents about 30% of total Bemis annual sales.
Looking at the middle of Page 4 of the supplemental schedules this segment reported a net sales decrease of 3.2% when compared to the first quarter of 2013.
Currency movement negatively impacted sales by 8.4% primarily related to the weakness in the Brazilian real.
The acquisition of our extrusion platform in Foshan China increased net sales by 4.6%.
The remaining organic growth of less than 1% reflects higher price mix partially offset by lower unit volumes.
Our business teams have diligently increased selling prices in Brazil in light of the inflationary environment in that region which has put some downward pressure on volume.
Operating profit for the Global Packaging segment was 6.8% of net sales for the first quarter of 2014.
The currency effect negatively impacted operating profit by $2.8 million primarily driven by weakness in the Brazilian real.
Without this negative currency impact first quarter 2014 operating profit would have been 7.5% of net sales an increase from the prior year's adjusted operating profit of 6.9% of net sales.
This reflects the benefit of higher selling prices and better mix with higher unit sales of value-added products.
In our Pressure Sensitive Materials segment which represents about 10% of total Bemis annual sales net sales for 2014 increased 1.6% as compared to the first quarter of 2013.
This includes a benefit from currency translation of 1.4%.
Organic sales therefore increased nominally as noted on Page 4 of the supplemental schedules.
The benefit of improved price mix from increased sales of value-added graphic and technical products was substantially offset by lower volumes of lower-margin label products.
As previously mentioned operating profit for the Pressure Sensitive Materials segment includes the $25 million charge related to the announced plant closure.
Without this charge operating profit for the Pressure Sensitive Materials segment would have been 7.4% of net sales in the first quarter of 2014 as compared to 5.5% of net sales last year.
This healthy increase was driven by the higher sales of value-added graphics and technical products in addition to improved global production efficiencies.
Now I will shift my commentary to consolidated Bemis results.
Excluding the impact of plant closure costs first quarter gross margins at 19.3% of net sales were in line with the first quarter of 2013 reflecting the incremental benefit of facility consolidation savings offset by lower unit volumes and the related fixed cost absorption.
Selling general and administrative expense was 9.9% of net sales for the first quarter in line with our expectations of 10% for the year.
Our increased investment in research and development demonstrates our effort to accelerate the pace of innovation to deliver growth in our target areas of high-barrier packaging medical and pharmaceutical packaging and packaging for developing markets in Asia Pacific.
The income tax rate for the first quarter was 34.3%.
We expect the income tax rate for the balance of 2014 to be approximately 35%.
Cash flow from operating activities for this first quarter totaled $12.5 million slightly higher than the first quarter of 2013 and seasonally in line with expectations.
We continue to expect 2014 cash flow from operations to be in excess of $500 million.
On the statement of cash flows note that the change in deferred income tax line reflects a use of cash of $12.5 million related to the realization of deferred tax liabilities primarily associated with the Paper Packaging transaction.
Capital expenditures for the first quarter were about $34 million in line with expectations this early in the year.
We continue to expect our capital expenditures for 2014 to be approximately $175 million.
In the quarter we repurchased approximately 1.1 million shares of Bemis stock which more than offset the impact of long-term stock incentive programs.
Our remaining authorization from the Board of Directors is approximately 1.4 million shares.
Quickly touching on our leverage metric net debt to adjusted EBITDA at the end of the first quarter was 2.1x consistent with year end 2013 and close to our target rate of 2x.
As we have discussed we intend to invest capital wisely and do not intend to accumulate cash.
As previously stated by management our priorities are to support our dividend program invest in organic growth fund strategic acquisitions and balance share purchases with deleveraging.
We have $400 million in bonds that will mature in August 2014.
We have a number of refinancing options including commercial paper bank debt or the issuance of new bonds.
We are weighing our options carefully but we expect to refinance at an interest rate lower than the current fixed bond rate of 5.65%.
Thank you for your time today.
We will now open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Phil Ng with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> This is Alex Hutter on for Phil.
On the CapEx guide it looks like you took some top end out and I believe it was $175 million to $200 million.
Does that reflect you guys investing in fewer projects or potentially slightly softer volume outlook for the year or is it just kind of an adjustment? This is Bill Austen I'll take that one.
When we put our guidance together of $175 million to $200 million earlier in the year late last year a lot of that is done with some engineering estimates.
And now that we've gotten into the quarter we have really refined those engineering estimates.
We've also worked with some of our suppliers and we have worked to improve on some of the costs associated with that CapEx.
Now that we're further into the quarter we have much more visibility.
We've narrowed that down to $175 million because we've done a nice job in engineering and in our sourcing arena to bring that number down.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one follow-up.
In PSM you guys saw some strong margin growth from the reversal of the mixed headwinds you guys have seen.
Is that a trend you guys expect will continue? Do you think things have bottomed or is it a kind of a one-quarter event? Well I think we're going to continue to see improvement in our Pressure Sensitive business.
A lot of this is generated in Europe as the economy has strengthened a little bit or stabilized is maybe a better word.
And we're seeing a pickup in graphics and of course graphics is one of our higher-margin parts of our business.
And so I think that Pressure Sensitive is going to operate about where it did in the first quarter.
And we'll take our next question from Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Mehul Dalia sitting -- it's actually Mehul sitting in for Ghansham.
Can you quantify how much weather impacted you on the cost side during the quarter? If you take a look at more of our fixed costs if you're talking about -- because we have some facilities that were down and didn't have power employees couldn't get to work.
We had some higher energy costs some freight costs that hit us that's about $0.01.
If you want to talk about volumes which really kind of make up the other part of it we thought we would do slightly better than GDP.
And so whatever the difference is between slightly better than GDP and where we ended up I think it's kind of the volume trend that our customers were talking about and our customers were concerned with their sales.
So that's about what it is.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just as a follow-up just as you said volumes came a little bit lighter than your GDP plus expectations.
Do you think that you can make it up throughout the remainder of the year? I don't think we'll make up those volumes because if people didn't buy those products and most of the products we sell are perishable products so I don't think we're going to make it up.
I think we're going to continue going forward doing slightly better than GDP.
And we'll take our next question from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Alax Wang sitting in for George.
Can you comment on how high-barrier volumes are doing versus some of your more commodity-like products? We have a strategy to grow our higher-barrier products our value-added products and we've been talking about that for the last few years.
We saw -- and actually we saw a slight bit of growth in our meat business in our dairy business.
Our problems or lack of volumes really come in more of those commodity type areas that we've been trying to shrink in the size of our company.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then just as a follow-up can you discuss pricing overall in Flexible and then maybe if you could comment on high barrier in particular as well? Overall I think our markets are very competitive.
We have a fragmented competitive base.
Pricing and competition are no different today than they were last quarter or 2 years ago.
They're still the same consistent environment that we operate in.
And we'll take our next question from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Henry I just had a question for you.
On the -- on your commentary when you reiterate the full year guidance you said the high end of the guidance and I might get this wrong but I think you said it was contingent upon FX mostly the real volumes and I think the third thing was productivity or margin improvement.
Of those 3 which one is most impactful to whether or not you can get to the high end of the guidance and why? I think the most impactful thing we have is the successful commercialization of our new business.
Volumes are important for us now.
We have to grow our volumes.
And we've got a lot of good projects in the pipeline that should be commercializing in the second quarter the third quarter the fourth quarter.
We've also got a lot of good products -- projects within our customer base that I can't talk about because they're still not out in the marketplace.
But to me it's going to be the growth of those new products and how fast and how well we execute the commercialization of those new businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I look at your growth and I think you mentioned this before it looks like volumes were maybe down about 1%.
GDP on average across your geographies is maybe up 1.5% or so somewhere in that range.
What gives you confidence that you can then get to if you were at minus 1% volume for the first quarter to the 4% total top end growth for Packaging in 2014? I think in the second third and fourth quarters we really should do slightly better than GDP.
And I say that because I look at the orders we have.
I look at the new products the commercialization of business that's in line.
And then you look at what happened to us in the first quarter and those volumes are really related to our customers and their problems with the weather.
And we can't change what happened in the first quarter but you can pretty well pinpoint exactly where those -- the lack of volume occurred and why and that weather pattern should I hope -- I'm living in Wisconsin I hope it goes away.
And we'll take our next question from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
One Henry with respect to the good order levels you've seen thus far in the second quarter is that just all seasonality/better weather or there -- is there something more to it than that? I think it's just really the seasonality.
Our second quarter is generally a good sales quarter for us.
You see the switch into more the summer-type products in the grilling season and all of those things.
So I think the order pattern is consistent with going from first quarter to second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a broader question.
Obviously you sold Paper Packaging.
You're closing your Pressure Sensitive plant.
You closed enormous facilities last year.
Should we read anything into your [indiscernible] activity [indiscernible] [Technical Difficulty] And we'll take our next question from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's actually Gabe Hajde for Chris.
One question around the plant closure in Ohio.
Can you talk about any [indiscernible] for a return on that project or [indiscernible].
[Indiscernible].
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you? This is Melanie.
You mean with regard to what we expect going forward in results of operations for Pressure Sensitive would be -- that plant was a --- sorry? LLC Research Division</strong> [Indiscernible] You do intend to make some x million dollars of savings from the 115 less employees or how should we think about it? No it's more focused on the reduction in the improvement of the underlying business going forward because it was a -- we'll call it a low margin plant that had lower production than the plant could support going forward.
I think the best -- I was just going to say we also changed the adhesive technology from solvents to 100% solid and that was the real driver here so that we could reach our 2020 goal of sustainability with less solvents.
We moved that platform of solvent-based adhesive.
We moved a lot of it over to 100% solids UV technology in an entirely different facility.
So the Stow facility became somewhat redundant and older.
LLC Research Division</strong> In the press release I think Henry you had mentioned some commercialization of new products and I've heard a couple of times on the call.
Can you provide some sort of parameters around what that might look like or quantify it at a high level how we can kind of see it flow through for the year or the next 24 months? I mean is that a...
I don't think I can really quantify that for you in a dollar figure.
These are some new products that are launched by our customers.
For example the single-serve protein snack it's going to kind of depend upon how well that does in the marketplace.
A lot of these things are not really like taken from somebody else.
There are new products and new things are coming out and I hope very much that they are very popular and a lot of people buy them.
And we'll take our next question from Al Kabili with Macquarie.
Henry I was wondering if you could just help us with how you're thinking about the outlook on the Global Packaging side from a volume perspective for the rest of the year as I think you mentioned sort of the price increases you've had to do on the inflationary front has pushed down volumes in Brazil and how do you see that playing out the remainder of the year? I think that there's a lot of inflation going on in Brazil and it's going to affect what people want to buy their purchasing power how they're going to do it.
I don't know how Brazil is going to do with its inflationary presence but I would suspect that Brazil will continue through the rest of the year much like it is in the first quarter.
Okay.
And then a second question just wanted to clarify on the guidance are you factoring in any expected resin decline during May June in that outlook? And in addition from an order pattern perspective I think you said it was sort of the normal seasonal order pattern that you've seen sort of pick up in 2Q thus far and I just wanted to clarify is that adjusting for the weather impact because given that weather sort of pushed down 1Q volumes you'd probably have a little bit of a bigger-than-normal sort of pickup in 2Q that I just wanted to clarify there as well.
Yes this is Bill Austen.
On the resin front as Henry said in his comments we saw -- we took an increase in the first quarter as the resin guys passed through.
But we have our model going forward for the rest of the year we have flat resin pricing built into our plan going forward for the rest of the year.
Now on the volume side as you talked about weather-related issues in the first quarter you're not going to get that volume back.
I mean that inventory is in the pipeline so people aren't going to eat more just because there was bad weather so that inventory is going to work its way through the pipeline.
And we're just seeing our normal seasonal second quarter pickup in orders rate that we see every year.
But no we will not see an increase in orders and/or volumes because of the bad weather in Q1.
And our next question comes from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I think when you were going through the segments earlier in U.S.
Packaging you had talked about the volume in the first quarter.
You mentioned fresh meat was somewhat pressured confectionary a couple others that I didn't hear.
But one thing that I did notice it didn't sound like cheese and dairy saw that much volume weakness.
Can you talk a little bit more about what you saw in cheese and dairy in the first quarter especially in U.S.
Packaging? And if any of the inflationary pressures that your customers are seeing should impact volumes as we go forward? We saw in the higher value-added processed meats dairy cheeses we saw a slight growth.
It was less than what we expected but we did see a slight growth in those areas.
Areas like you talked about candy confection some of the personal health care things like that that we have talked about that are more competitive a lot more competitive don't involve some of the technology that we have in our company.
We have been in the past as we closed facilities taking pricing walking away from some business those markets where we aren't given the chance to earn the margins we think we need or deserve for our technology.
Those were stagnant to slightly worse.
I made a comment on fresh meat.
Fresh meat is so small in our company.
We are such a distant #2 that -- slightly up slightly down it really doesn't move the needle for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then just on PSM I want to make sure I heard your commentary right.
Somebody was asking about the margins in the second quarter.
Were you saying that the margin -- you thought the margin would be similar in the second quarter as it was in 1Q '14? And then...
I think our Pressure Sensitive business will do in the second quarter similar to the first quarter.
And we'll take our next question from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones.
Henry at what point do you expect total sales to stop declining on a year-on-year basis assuming stable exchange rates? If you assume a stable exchange rate I would expect to see our volumes stabilize here in the second quarter and maybe even have a little bit of a gain.
I really thought we were going to start to see our volumes coming back in the first quarter but I didn't plan on a polar vortex.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And you touched on this earlier but in terms of the pricing environment in North America I think you said you hadn't seen any meaningful changes there.
Obviously your large public competitor has been vocal about raising prices in recent months.
Can you comment at all in that regard? Like I said we really are in the process side of the business and that competitor is really in the fresh meat side of the business where we have a very distant #2.
We don't see any change in pricing patterns or anything in the marketplace.
And we'll take our next question from Mark Henneman with Mairs and Power.
Inc.</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the investments that you've been making in your business for the last 3 and 4 years as you've been more focused on return on invested capital now that you've got some time.
Can you give us some indication that those investments are earning a higher incremental return now that you've had the chance to see how those investments have worked out? Well with regard -- Mark this is Melanie.
I think we could divide that -- if we talk about investments alone and separate out the facility consolidation exercise we really have been focused on expanding our capacity for value-added high-barrier products.
And examples of that would be the platform we have now for liquid packaging and other -- and variations on that that are on high barrier.
And then that goes around the globe.
Yes.
Mark this is Bill Austen.
If you look over the last few years as Melanie has just described we've put in multilayer extrusion capacity into Brazil to upscale our product portfolio in that part of the world to go after the protein packaging the barrier requirements for meat and cheese.
And we've seen a nice gain in that part of the world in Brazil specifically around our protein platform.
We've seen nice pickups there.
We've actually transferred technology from the U.S.
to that part of the world.
We've put -- we're putting the same kind of capacity into Asia now that we have an extrusion platform there.
If you look at the recent extrusion capacity that we've put into Europe it is for a new type of barrier film which is a flat film to get away from shrink bags.
So all of those products and all of that entire portfolio has a much better return than does confectionary packaging if you will.
So we're changing the mix through these new assets that we're putting in place around the world and we're putting in as Henry said or Melanie has said to capitalize on this conversion of metal and glass containers to Flexible Packaging for the liquid categories in the U.S.
which is a for us is a large opportunity as we go forward.
And that would be for these kinds of baby foods fruit slurries all of those types of products that are moving out of cans and glass to flexibles.
That's where our investments have gone over the last few years and that's where they'll continue to go as well as investing in our medical and pharma platform as we continue to see that as a bigger part of our business.
In North America as we went through the closing of the facilities we really looked at our product mix and as we've talked about in the past took some very courageous decisions around pricing and about what business we would move.
And we've been diligently working on using our assets in the more high-value and high-barrier areas rather than the commodity areas.
So as we see that product mix shift we also see a higher return on our invested capital.
In addition we are being very diligent about new CapEx spending and we're using return on invested capital as a key component in making any decision around capital spending.
And we'll take our next question from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones.
Henry have you seen any change in the competitive landscape in PSM? And then just if you could give us an update on the CFO search I'd appreciate it.
No I don't think we've seen any change in the competitive landscape in the Pressure Sensitive business.
As far as the search for a CFO we are continuing to go through the process.
We have very capable financial people here at the Bemis Company.
We're not in any rush.
We want to make sure that we get the right person.
So the search continues and we're very confident in the people that we have here at the Bemis Company and we don't feel pressure to have to go out and fill that position with someone that isn't the best candidate.
[Operator Instructions] It appears we have no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back to Erin Winters for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you all for joining us today.
This concludes our conference call.
This concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Bemis Company-hosted Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Erin Winters.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you.
Welcome to our second quarter 2014 conference call.
Today is July 24 2014.
After today's call a replay will be available on our website bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are Bemis Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Henry Theisen; our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Bill Austen; our Vice President and Controller and interim Principal Financial Officer Jerry Krempa; and our Vice President and Treasurer Melanie Miller.
Today Henry will begin with comments on this quarter's business performance and outlook for the remainder of 2014.
Bill will then discuss growth and capital expenditures and finally Jerry will cover the financial statements.
After our comments we will answer any questions you have.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to direct you to our website bemis.com under the Investor Relations tab where you will find our press release along with supplemental schedules.
We will be referring to these schedules at points throughout today's discussion.
On today's call we will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures as we talk about Bemis' performance.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures that we consider most comparable can be found in the press release and supplemental schedules.
I'd like to remind everyone that statements regarding future performance of the company made during this call are forward-looking and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors.
Please refer to Bemis Company's regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 to review these risk factors.
Now I'll turn the call over to Henry Theisen.
Thank you Erin and thank you all for joining us.
I am very pleased with our performance this quarter.
We delivered record EPS and strong margin improvement grew sales in our target end markets and positioned our business for additional value-added volume growth in future periods.
We delivered our highest gross margin percent since 2009 during this quarter at 19.8% as compared to 19.4% last year.
This margin improvement was driven by continued pricing discipline and improved sales mix.
In our U.S.
Packaging segment we improved operating margin to 13.9% a healthy increase compared to 13% last year.
We grew our target dairy and liquid end markets consistent with our strategy to increase sales of high-barrier value-added products.
In our liquid packaging business we continue to see the positive impacts of the conversion away from historical formats such as glass and metal cans to our lighter and more sustainable flexible packaging.
In our dairy packaging end market we gained some small yet strategic wins with our customers.
Beyond these target end markets overall unit volumes weren't quite as strong this quarter as compared to last year for a variety of reasons including high beef and pork prices.
Our strategy to sell the right products is paying off.
We sold a larger portion of new innovative products that earn a higher price based on the value they add to our customers.
In our Global Packaging segment this quarter's performance was consistent with last year.
While we faced volume headwinds in Brazil where inflation continues to burden consumers we are pleased with the strong unit volume growth in our global health care packaging business.
We have targeted this end market as an area of growth as it fits with our strategy to sell technology-driven value-added products.
Our innovative solutions meet our customers' stringent packaging requirements for safety and sterility.
In our Pressure Sensitive Materials segment we also delivered improved performance this quarter.
Our profit levels benefited from the double-digit increases of value-added graphics products driven by a stabilizing economic environment in Europe.
Our business teams have managed costs well over the last few years in light of economic volatility and this will continue to benefit performance in the future.
With respect to the raw materials market the polyethylene resin cost increase earlier in the year was successfully passed along in accordance with our customer pricing agreements.
Turning to guidance.
Our third quarter EPS guidance is in the range of $0.65 to $0.70.
Second and third quarters are seasonally our strongest periods and we remain confident in our ability to deliver improved performance during the second half of 2014.
We are raising the bottom end of our guidance for the full year 2014.
Our previous full year guidance was in the range of $2.40 to $2.55 and we are now further defining that range to $2.45 to $2.55.
Looking at the first half of 2014 I am pleased with how our businesses performed.
We achieved modest organic sales growth in our U.S.
Packaging and Global Packaging segments.
We delivered sequentially improving gross margins during each quarter this year.
We redeployed the cash from the sale of the Paper Packaging division to repurchase 2 million shares of stock during the first half of 2014.
And most importantly our business teams are commercializing new opportunities and expanding capacity to support our target end markets.
We are confident in the margin growth and return on invested capital improvement this will deliver in 2014 and beyond.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bill for some additional commentary on our growth plan and capital expenditures.
Thank you Henry and good morning everyone.
Like Henry I am pleased with the execution of our growth strategy in the first half of 2014.
Our business teams continue to focus on serving customers increasing market share and improving sales mix where our technologies provide a sustainable advantage.
Today I'll provide some color on the execution of our growth agenda and our confidence in our performance during the remainder of the year and into 2015.
We have a strong pipeline of new business awards to support growth during the second half of 2014 and we are also investing in research and development projects that will create additional long-term opportunities.
Before sharing details about our new business pipeline I'll revisit the background of our 2014 growth expectations.
As we stated in January we anticipate that directionally our 2014 sales volume will be slightly better than GDP.
Market share gains and new product innovations will provide the incremental unit volumes.
While volume is important our main focus remains in selling value-added products to our customers.
As Henry mentioned during the second quarter we strategically increased unit sales to liquid dairy and health care packaging end markets.
We are pleased with this targeted growth and with the work we have done to lay the foundation for continued success in the coming periods.
We have an innovative team of research and development engineers around the world developing breakthrough technologies prioritizing and focusing research effort and accelerating new products to market.
We have introduced new products to our customers that will deliver steady volumes and margin improvement during the second half of 2014 and beyond.
From a geographic perspective these innovations are applicable to customers around the globe.
In the U.S.
during the second quarter we were awarded several pieces of new business that will ramp up during the remainder of 2014 and beyond.
For example we are now selling our roll stock solution for high-barrier shrink applications for markets such as fresh meat and cheese.
Our solution replaces the use of shrink bags and supplies our customers with substantial savings in their converting process.
Next our innovative barrier sheet along with its easy-open lid is expanding into new liquid categories.
This chlorine-free packaging solution delivers cost savings and sustainability to our customers by allowing for recyclability in their packaging process.
Also in the U.S.
we continue to convert our customers' packaging from historical coded boxes to our flexible formats.
Examples of recent conversions are frozen breakfast foods that are now offered in convenient stand-up pouches rather than wax-coated boxes and our frozen -- and frozen vegetable purées now offered in flexible bag rather than a box.
In Asia Pacific we have added capacity to support the growth of our protective films into new electronics applications.
Our extrusion platform in Asia is also poised to grow with the expanding needs of our protein and medical device customers within that region.
Our performance is strengthening with order backlogs at higher levels as we enter the third quarter.
In Latin America we continued to extend our existing technologies to the Brazilian marketplace as it transitions to advancing -- to advanced packaging applications.
For example our proprietary barrier films are now being used to package frozen vegetables in Brazil.
Another example is our Peel-Reseal films that just launched in the Brazilian marketplace to provide convenience and reclosable features in luncheon meat applications.
In Europe we are focused on niche packaging markets.
As the economy continues to stabilize in this region of the world we expect performance to continue to improve as well.
Turning to the topic of capital spend.
We continued to execute our capital expenditure plan for 2014 to support our long-term growth strategy.
We are investing in state-of-the-art capacity for top line growth and to further strengthen our competitive position.
As previously guided we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $175 million.
This year's increased capital spending reflects investments to meet the growing liquid market needs to enhance our health care packaging capabilities and to expand our sealant and protective film extrusion platform.
As we move beyond 2014 we expect capital expenditures to be around D&amp;A to support increasing global demand for flexible packaging.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Jerry for his comments on the financial results.
Thank you Bill and hello everyone.
This morning Bemis Company reported record second quarter diluted earnings per share of $0.65 which was near the top end of our most recent guidance.
There are no adjustments to GAAP earnings this quarter.
These earnings reflect a 6.6% increase compared with the 2013 second quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.61.
The prior year amount is shown on Page 3 of the supplemental schedules which are available on our website and will be referenced throughout my comments.
This quarter we delivered gross margin as a percentage of net sales of 19.8% compared with 19.4% last year.
This is our highest gross margin percentage since 2009.
I will now discuss the sales and operating profit performance of each of our reportable segments.
As I discuss sales refer to Page 4 of the supplemental schedules which provides detail on the year-over-year changes in net sales by reportable segment.
Our U.S.
Packaging operations which represent about 60% of total Bemis annual sales saw a decrease in second quarter net sales compared with the second quarter of last year.
The primary driver of this decrease was the divestitures of our Paper Packaging division in 2014 and our Clysar division in 2013.
Aside from the divestitures overall organic sales in U.S.
Packaging were down slightly.
Volumes in our target end markets of dairy and liquid grew at strong single-digit percentages compared with last year.
Our meat category showed a modest decline in volume while we saw on average mid single-digit declines in dry foods confectionery and snack and beverages.
U.S.
Packaging operating profit for the second quarter of 2014 was 13.9% of net sales compared with 13% of net sales in the second quarter of 2013 approximately 1/2 of this improvement related to the favorable impact of higher unit sales to our targeted dairy and liquid end markets the remaining improvement related to the favorable mix impact from the Paper Packaging and Clysar divestitures.
Next I will discuss our Global Packaging operations which represent about 30% of total Bemis annual sales.
Looking at the middle of Page 4 of the supplemental schedules this segment reported a net sales decrease of less than 1% when compared with the second quarter of 2013.
Currency movement negatively impacted sales by 5.8% primarily related to the weakness in the Brazilian real.
The acquisition of our extrusion platform in Foshan China increased net sales by 5.2%.
Remaining organic sales were approximately flat.
We saw mid single-digit increases in volumes of global health care packaging as well as increases in meat and cheese packaging in Europe.
These increases were offset by overall lower volumes in the sluggish Brazilian economy.
Second quarter operating profit for the Global Packaging segment was 7.2% of net sales which was consistent with last year.
The currency effect negatively impacted operating profit by $1.7 million primarily driven by weakness in the Brazilian real.
The benefit of higher selling prices and better mix in target end markets was offset by the negative impact of overall weak demand in Brazil.
In our Pressure Sensitive Materials segment which represents about 10% of our business net sales for 2014 increased 1.6% compared with the second quarter of 2013.
This includes a 2% benefit from currency translation.
Organic sales therefore decreased slightly as noted on Page 4 of the supplemental schedules.
The double-digit increase in volumes of value-added graphic products was substantially offset by lower volumes of technical and label products.
Operating profit for the Pressure Sensitive Materials segment was 6.8% of net sales in the second quarter of 2014 compared with 4.2% of net sales last year.
This increase was driven by the impact of higher sales of graphic products in addition to improved global production efficiencies and cost controls.
Now I will shift to consolidated Bemis results.
Selling general and administrative expense was 9.6% of net sales for the second quarter.
We expect these expenses to be just under 10% for the year which is down slightly from the prior year.
Research and development expense was 1% of net sales for the second quarter up slightly from the prior year.
Our increased investment in research and development demonstrates our effort to accelerate the pace of innovation and deliver growth in our target markets.
We expect this to continue through 2014 and beyond.
The income tax rate for the second quarter was 34.4%.
We expect the income tax rate for the balance of the year to be approximately 34.5%.
Cash flow from operating activities for the second quarter totaled $57.9 million.
This reflects the cash payments associated with the closure of the Pressure Sensitive Materials plant in Stow Ohio and generally higher working capital levels in the second quarter.
We expect 2014 cash flow from operations to be $450 million.
This revised expectation considers the cash expenses related to the Stow closure as well as tax payments related to the gain on the sale of the Paper Packaging division.
Capital expenditures for the second quarter were about $34 million.
Spending levels will ramp up during the second half of 2014 as we install equipment that was ordered earlier in the year.
In May our Board of Directors increased the authorization for share repurchases by 8 million shares supplementing our current buyback authorization.
We repurchased approximately 1 million shares of Bemis stock during the second quarter of 2014.
As of June 30 our remaining authorization from the Board of Directors was approximately 8.4 million shares.
Quickly touching on our leverage metric.
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA at the end of the second quarter was 2.2x slightly above our target rate of 2x.
We have $400 million in bonds with a fixed interest rate of 5.65% that will mature on August 1 of this year.
We plan to refinance these bonds with a $200 million bank term loan that will mature in the year 2022 and another $200 million of commercial paper.
In the current interest rate environment replacing the fixed rate bonds with this variable rate debt will lower the interest rate on this $400 million of debt from 5.65% to approximately 1%.
Thank you for your time today.
We will now open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question we'll hear from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to dig a little bit deeper on the margin improvement year-over-year.
How much of the improvement -- of the 40-basis-point improvement in gross margins year-over-year was related to the sale of the Paper Packaging business versus some of the margin -- some of the mix issues that you were talking about maybe in the business that you kept? At the gross margin level approximately 1/2 -- this is Jerry I'm sorry.
Approximately 1/2 of the improvement is related to the divestitures of the Paper Packaging division and Clysar.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when I look at the old guidance versus the new guidance did the old guidance assume the change in the interest rate for the $400 million refinancing or not? Yes it did.
I think we spoke about that last quarter about our intention to refinance and this was one of the options we were looking at at the time.
And next we'll move to Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Alex Hutter on for Phil.
You mentioned the roll stock opportunity to replace shrink bags in U.S.
Packaging.
Can you just give a bit more color on that opportunity? How the margins stack up? How significant an opportunity it is for you now? How big you think it could become? And where you think your market share could go in that market given your current capacity? Let me turn that over to Bill he's closer to it than I am.
Alex it's a great question.
We are a smaller player in the shrink bag business and we've developed a great technology in flat film that can be used in the meat processing plants to replace shrink bags with flat film so the bags get made in-line.
It's a wonderful technology.
We have deployed this technology in other parts of the world yet on a small base.
But in the U.S.
we expect to deploy this over the course of the next several months and years because it's the last place that the meat processor can take cost out of their operation by taking out their labor of stuffing bags with pieces of meat.
The meat just runs down a line and gets packaged in a flat film and then the bag gets made right in-line.
So it's a great opportunity for the meat processors to take cost out of their operation.
And that's the target that we're going after is to help our customers reduce their costs in their plant operations with our -- with this great technology that we've developed.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just for the follow-up volumes in U.S.
Packaging overall seem to be tracking a little bit softer than that kind of 2% to 3% volume growth target you mentioned earlier in the year.
You're up against easier comps in the second half but kind of how dependent is your full year guidance on hitting that volume target? Well first of what we said is that we would do slightly better than GDP not 3% or 4% but slightly better than GDP.
Our guidance is really based on the innovations that we have and we've talked about them as we've ramped up our CapEx spending this year and we've looked at our product flow.
And as Bill mentioned many of these things have been awarded to us.
We're ramping them up.
Overall there is sluggishness in the economy but new packaging new formats new products conversion of rigid to flexible these are the things that are driving our increase in our guidance and our confidence in delivering this year.
And next we'll move to Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Mehul Dalia sitting in for Ghansham.
Just wanted to get a feel for your updated thoughts on capital allocation priorities.
Should we expect to see more share buybacks going forward? Well I don't know if you should expect to see more share-backs or not.
My goal or what I really like to do is to try and grow the company organically.
That's the best growth.
And I think we're going to be putting more CapEx into those opportunities that are presenting to us and that are -- we can use and turn into sales growth.
After that you look at acquisitions.
And finally if there's not anything there in an acquisition that enhances our technology or moves us into a new market then you kind of fall back to share repurchases.
But as I said I think our main use of capital is going to be support the ideas that our R&amp;D group has.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And can you quantify the top line impact from new product innovations and from the new customer wins that you outlined in your prepared remarks? I don't think I can really quantify that now because a lot of those things aren't out in the marketplace yet and I really don't like to speak about how big certain things are until our customers have them out on the shelf.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And just one last one.
Are there any updates to the pricing environment in U.S.
flexibles? Are you seeing any changes in competitive behavior there? No no.
As we've talked about it in the areas where we like to operate the most are around sterility and food safety and there's less competition there.
If we talk about the areas like we pointed out that we have some good -- that's tough competitive markets like snacks and candies and confections that's a very competitive market.
And it continues to be a competitive market and I expect it will in the future.
We do well there.
We operate there but that's not our targeted markets.
And next we'll move to George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Alax Wang sitting in for George.
Can you just talk a little bit about Brazil and your outlook for the region? We've heard sort of mixed things regarding demand trends down there.
Yes.
Alax this is Bill Austen.
Our outlook for Brazil is steady as it is now.
We have -- we're the leader in our packaging formats in Brazil.
Our customers continue to buy from us.
While demand is soft from the consumers in Brazil we continue to run our business at very good capacity utilization rates across the entire Latin America region not just Brazil but also in Argentina as well.
So our outlook for Brazil is steady as it goes.
We are in a good position there.
Research Division</strong> And then just as a follow-up maybe following up on an earlier question what kind of conditions do you think need to exist so that organic volumes in the U.S.
can grow more predictably and regularly? Well I don't know if we really know the answer to that question.
I just think that the consumer has to start buying.
And we'll move on to Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> In -- Henry in U.S.
Packaging organic growth was down 0.5% in the quarter and it was up 0.5% in the first half.
Can you tell us what you're expecting along those lines for the balance of the year? I expect that the decline in organic growth is going to stop.
I think that you'll see us having a slight -- a little bit of growth in the second half of the year and that's really related to new product offerings and the new innovations.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of cash flow did the operating cash flow guidance change have anything to do with working capital? And if not what are your expectations for working capital for the year? Adam this is Jerry.
No our working capital is typically high in the middle of the year in our peak second quarter seasons.
We have a higher level going into third quarter expecting the improvements we see coming.
But at year end we fully expect that our working capital will be down to the same levels it was at the end of 2013 such that there would be no use of cash from working capital.
[Operator Instructions] Next we'll move to Al Kabili with Macquarie.
This is Danny Moran on for Al.
Did you see any de-stocking in the quarter from customers? And if so do you expect this to normalize in 3Q? I don't know if we can really say that there was de-stocking in the customers.
I wouldn't have any evidence of that.
Our order patterns are good.
Yes in certain markets we had a little bit of a downside; other markets were a little bit better.
But I don't have any evidence that there was a de-stocking going on.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just switching to PSM it looks like it was a pretty strong quarter.
Do you expect this level of mix improvement and the strength in Europe to continue in the back half? Why don't I give it to Bill? He's closer to that than I am.
Dan we expect to see PSM to stay right at the levels that it's at and we're -- we feel good about where they are right now and how it's moving forward.
And we do expect Europe to continue to improve both in flexible and in PSM as their economy continues to dig its way out of the hole.
And next we'll move to Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
First around cash flow.
You had -- it looks like you've lowered the outlook for -- of cash flow.
Can you give us a little color there as to what the contributing factors were? I mean when we look at -- at least digging through the release you talked about the sale of the Paper business and you talked about the closure of the plant.
But both of those were -- quite frankly both of those were announced and completed before the very end of last quarter.
So those 30 days 20 days later when you gave an outlook those probably wouldn't have been factored in there.
So what was the differential? I think to an earlier question maybe you mentioned working capital's going to be flat.
Was there an expectation previous that it would have been a reduction? Or what were the elements there? Chris this is Jerry.
I think yes you're right.
At the beginning of the year we had guided to $500 million of cash flow.
And the -- at that time the forecast did not anticipate the Paper divestiture or the Stow closure.
So those items had not been considered.
So we have now adjusted the $500 million for those items and that's where we're coming out at $450 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
You had -- okay.
Second question was with respect to resin environment what you're seeing right now.
Any movements in specialty resins that are -- some of the more commodity grades have been relatively stable here.
We saw an increase earlier in the year as you pointed out.
But anything unusual happening with some of your specialty grades? This is Henry.
No no.
We factored it into our guidance for the year pretty much flat raw material costs going forward.
Next we'll hear from Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering -- I was wondering if you could just talk about 2 things you mentioned and in the release which again is your -- the higher demand for graphic products in your Pressure Sensitive business.
Can you talk about again what's driving that and kind of who your competitors are in that market? And then I think you also called out health care packaging as a source of growth and I would just like to get a little bit more color on that as well.
Sure.
Debbie this is Bill Austen.
The higher demand for graphic packaging we're a leader in -- not graphic packaging in PSM.
We're a leader in graphic materials graphic Pressure Sensitive Materials in Europe.
And as that economy continues to rebound there's a higher demand for graphic materials because that's the first thing that companies cut: advertising bus wraps car wraps signage.
And as the economy then begins to improve companies start to advertise again so graphic materials get in vogue if you will.
The demand is higher.
And it's -- the normal competitors in that arena would be 3M and Avery.
Those are the kind of folks that we would compete against in graphic materials.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in the health care packaging what's really driving -- what products do you have that's really driving the growth there? Health care packaging our growth there is being driven really across the globe.
It's just the higher demand for health care medical devices pharmaceutical packaging in Brazil which is doing well.
Europe we've got some package technologies that we happen to be the lead in and for drug-coated stents.
So it's just the uplift across-the-board in health care and the needs for health care packaging.
And next we'll move to Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Henry you mentioned your order backlog.
It sounded like you thought they were pretty strong headed into the third quarter.
Can you maybe either give us some order of magnitude or product categories et cetera? What's giving you sort of a greater sense of assurance there around the order backlogs? It isn't like it's drastically different.
It just is a little better than it's been in the first and second half of the year.
And again it's driven by the new products that we offer.
So it's not like the world has changed we're just starting to see some pickup in our new products.
We're starting to see some pickup in the conversion of rigid.
And it's just a little bit better than it's been in the first and second quarter of this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just bigger picture when we think about flexible plastic packaging in general right we think about a higher growth market as you talked about earlier some of these conversions from other packaging options et cetera.
Your organic volumes have been relatively flat for the last couple years but part of that has admittedly been because you shed some low margin business.
But can you talk about the market in general? Why maybe the market isn't growing as fast as it should? Or maybe why your volumes have been a little bit lower than the industry and whether or not you think over time we can see that accelerate? I just think overall in the first quarter the second quarter the GDP like in the first quarter was negative.
And this is kind of an overall weakness in almost all of our markets.
And I think that our -- and we've overcome that with some new products and our customers when we talk to our customers they want to come out with new products.
They want to come out with things that are innovative or that separate them on the shelf.
So I think we've kind of -- we were operating kind of in a sluggish lower across-the-board.
We've taken steps to -- in our pricing discipline and some of those low margin areas that we're not going to seek those opportunities that don't give us a fair return for the value that we bring.
And I think we're generating growth in those targeted areas where we are paid for the value that we bring.
And next we'll take a follow-up from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones.
Actually just following up on the question that Scott asked earlier.
If flexible packaging is taking share why are we sort of seeing modest volume organic declines that are kind of consistent with what we're seeing in paperboard if you can provide a little more color on that? Well I think it kind of comes back to the same answer I just gave.
It is -- all of our customers are somewhat sluggish.
All of our customers have some concerns about volume and it's kind of spread evenly.
And the conversions don't come as fast as some of those other things.
And actually it's our intent in what we've done over the past to target those markets where we get recognition for the value that we bring.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly are you seeing any logistical issues being created by rail or freight that's causing you to keep extra inventory or delaying shipments to your customers? No no no that's not what we're seeing.
And we'll take a follow-up from Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just -- I wanted to just ask one more question on the cash flow guidance.
Maybe it would help if you could just give us what the cash outflow is going to be from the Snow (sic) [Stow] closure.
And then just from what you said I think on the last conference call I think there were $9 million in proceeds from the sale of the Paper Packaging business so just the tax implication -- cash tax implication there.
That might help us to bridge.
Okay.
This is Jerry.
On the Stow closure I think we did have an accrual in the quarter -- last quarter for the closure that we talked about so that will give you an idea of the cash expenditures there.
And on the gain on the divestiture of Paper you got to remember that that was the booking that was reported from a tax standpoint.
We had a higher gain that we reported that we had to pay taxes on.
Research Division</strong> So above the $9 million? Correct.
And we'll take a follow-up from Al Kabili with Macquarie.
Just want to follow up on the full year EPS guidance.
Are you assuming any share buybacks in the second half? No there is no share-back factored into the second half of the year.
And we'll move on to another follow-up with Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> On the cash flow outlook.
So aside from those 2 items presumably you would be north of $500 million.
So do you think of $500 million or slightly north of that as a kind of a normalized number along with the now $190 million of CapEx that you're guiding to post 2014? You're saying excluding the adjustments we just talked about we'd be north of $500 million? Research Division</strong> Right.
You'd still be at $500 million or somewhat north of that number and you talked about CapEx being equivalent to D&amp;A post 2014 so let's call it $190 million.
So roughly $500 million and $190 million kind of on a more normal basis.
Does that -- would you agree with that? That sounds reasonable.
That makes sense.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I will turn the call back over to the speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
Thank you all for joining us today.
This concludes our conference call.
And that will conclude today's call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Bemis Company Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Erin Winters.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you.
Welcome to our third quarter 2014 conference call.
Today is October 23 2014.
After today's call a replay will be available on our website bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are Bemis company's President and Chief Executive Officer Bill Austen; our Vice President and Controller and Interim Principal Financial Officer Jerry Krempa; and our Vice President and Treasurer Melanie Miller.
Today Jerry will begin with comments on the quarter's financial performance.
Bill will then provide color on business performance and outlook.
After our comments we will answer any questions you have.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I'd like to direct you to our website bemis.com under the Investor Relations tab where you will find our press release along with our supplemental schedules.
We'll be referring to these schedules that points throughout today's discussion.
On today's call we will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures as we talk about Bemis' performance.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures that we consider most comparable can be found in the press release and supplemental schedules.
I'd like to remind everyone that statements regarding future performance of the company made during this teleconference are forward-looking and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors.
Please refer to Bemis Company's regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 to review these risk factors.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jerry Krempa.
Thank you Erin and hello everyone.
This morning we reported record total company adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.67 which is near the middle of our most recent guidance.
This is an 11.7% increase compared with 2013 third quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.60.
As previously announced during the third quarter we entered into an agreement to sell our global Pressure Sensitive Materials business.
The third quarter operating results of this segment as well as a pretax impairment charge of about $45 million are aggregated and reported as discontinued operations in our financial statements.
Consequently my discussion of our financial results will reference only continuing operations which consists of our U.S.
and global Flexible Packaging businesses.
We have included supplemental schedules on our website that recasts certain financial information on a continuing operations basis.
Specifically we have provided a recast of both our historical earnings per share amounts and our income statement.
Looking to Page 3 of these supplemental schedules you can see record third quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.61 a 10.9% increase compared with last year's recast third quarter results of $0.55 per share.
I will now discuss the sales and operating profit performance of each of our Flexible Packaging reportable segments.
As I discuss sales figures please refer to Page 5 of the supplemental schedules which provides detail on year-over-year changes in net sales.
In our U.S.
Packaging segment which represents approximately 2/3 of total Bemis sales from continuing operations we saw a decrease in third quarter net sales compared with the third quarter of last year.
This decrease is attributable to the divestiture of our Paper Packaging Division earlier this year.
Excluding the impact of this divestiture overall organic sales in U.S.
Packaging increased 1.1% driven by favorable price mix.
While overall unit volumes were consistent with the prior year we did see unit volume increases in our targeted higher value dairy and liquid end markets which grew at strong mid-single-digit percentages compared with last year.
We saw low single digit volume increases in our beverage and over-wrap end markets.
Our processed meat category increased modestly while our cheese category decreased modestly.
With respect to the balance of our product categories on average we saw mid-single-digit declines in volumes for dry foods bakery confectionery and snack food packaging.
U.S.
Packaging operating profit for the third quarter of 2014 was 13.3% of net sales compared with 13% of net sales in the third quarter of last year.
Our return on sales benefited from the divestiture of paper packaging and from higher unit sales to our targeted dairy and liquid end markets.
Our return on sales was adversely impacted by startup costs associated with the commercialization of new business.
Next I will discuss our Global Packaging segment which represents approximately 1/3 of total Bemis sales from continuing operations.
Referring again to the middle of Page 5 of the supplemental schedules this segment reported a net sales increase of 2.9% when compared with the third quarter of last year.
Currency movement negatively impacted sales by 2.5%.
If you exclude this negative currency impact organic sales grew 5.4% over last year.
Approximately 4% of this growth came from favorable price mix.
In addition we saw mid-single-digit volume increases of medical device pharmaceutical and dairy packaging and modest volume increases in meat and cheese packaging across Latin America Europe and Asia.
These volume increases were partially offset by declines in the dry food snack food and confectionery packaging categories.
Third quarter operating profit for the Global Packaging segment was 8.6% of net sales up a full percentage point from last year's 7.6%.
Currency negatively impacted operating profit by $1 million.
These higher returns in Global Packaging are attributable to higher selling prices and better mix in target end markets such as medical device pharmaceutical meat and cheese and dairy.
These end markets are consistent with our growth strategy.
Switching to a discussion of consolidated Bemis results.
Selling general and administrative expenses from continuing operations was 9.5% of net sales for the third quarter down from 10.1% in the prior third quarter and a reflection of disciplined cost control programs.
We continue to expect these expenses to be below prior year levels.
Research and development expense was 1% of net sales consistent with the prior year.
As we accelerate the pace of innovation and investments to deliver growth in our target markets we expect to continue at or slightly above this rate in future years.
The income tax rate for continuing operations was 34.9% for the third quarter.
We expect the tax rate for the full year 2014 to be approximately 34.5%.
Cash flow from operating activities for the third quarter totaled about $121 million.
Working capital levels have increased for a number of reasons including raw material cost inflation in inventory which ultimately gets to accounts receivable.
Higher selling prices related to increased sales of value-added products and higher inventory levels associated with new business commercialization efforts.
For these reasons full year 2014 cash flow from operations is now expected to be in the $375 million to $400 million range.
This range is slightly ahead of last year but below our previous full year guidance.
Capital expenditures for the third quarter were about $43 million bringing our year-to-date capital spend to approximately $113 million.
We expect cash payments for capacity expansions to be substantially higher during the fourth quarter as compared to the prior quarters this year.
Accordingly we maintain our guidance for full year spend at approximately $175 million.
Quickly touching on our leverage metric net debt to adjusted EBITDA at the end of the third quarter was 2.1x close to our target rate of 2x.
On August 1 $400 million in bonds matured.
These bonds had a fixed interest rate of 5.65%.
We refinanced these bonds with variable rate debt consisting of a $200 million bank term loan that will mature in 2022 and another $200 million of commercial paper.
In the current interest rate environment replacing the fixed rate bonds with these variable rate debt lowered the interest rate on this $400 million of debt from 5.65% to approximately 1%.
Let me now turn the call over to Bill for his commentary.
Thank you Jerry and good morning everyone.
Before discussing my thoughts on the most recent quarter I'd like to step back a bit and share with you my perspective as I begin my new role as CEO of Bemis.
I am truly honored to be leading the company at this important and exciting time in its history.
We are at a turning point.
As you are aware we have been internally focused for the last few years.
Specifically we integrated our largest acquisition in company history.
We closed 9 plants as part of our facility consolidation program and we divested 3 non-core businesses a tremendous amount of internally focused effort that is over.
And now it is time to focus our resources externally on accelerating disciplined growth delivering innovation and continuously improving all we do.
We will accomplish this in a variety of ways and the result will be improved performance metrics.
Specifically I am committed to improving return on invested capital operating margins and earnings per share.
In the months ahead you will hear more details about our external focus and the long-term financial objectives to which we will hold ourselves accountable.
We begin this next chapter from a position of strength.
The facts are we made great products that are differentiated from the competition.
We have deep and valued customer relationships and we have the scale capital and dedicated employees to provide our solutions to customers anywhere in the world.
Now turning to our most recent third quarter.
As Jerry mentioned we had a strong quarter.
We delivered record EPS and operating margin improvement.
We grew sales in our target end markets and positioned our business for additional value-added volume growth in future periods.
In our U.S.
Packaging segment we improved operating margin to 13.3% as compared to 13% last year.
While this improvement speaks of our strategy of trading up by selling a greater portion of value-added products we could have done better.
This quarter our results we're dampened by waste and inefficiency related to commercialization of new business.
Without operational issues our margins would have been roughly 50 basis points higher.
These results are not acceptable and we expect more from ourselves.
And we are taking actions to overcome these growing pains.
As we move forward we will continue with our strong pricing discipline capacity additions and upgrades.
We will also execute on operational improvements to deliver increased profit from our growth projects.
I am confident in our progress and we will continue with a heightened sense of urgency to achieve our full potential.
With respect to volume the U.S.
packaged food industry has been relatively flat and has lagged overall GDP.
It is clearly a tough volume environment.
We expect our volumes to exceed average food growth levels.
For instance one trend that continues is the conversion from rigid glass and can formats to flexible plastic packaging.
We are expanding our capacity to meet these demands.
While our customers may see flat volumes in their business when they convert more of their existing volume to flexible formats it's growth for Bemis.
Another trend we see is that our customers are using packaging to rejuvenate their brands and increase their share of consumers' wallets.
These trends will drive increased sales of value-added products that will also improve our performance metrics.
Let me share some examples of these successes.
We see more customers expanding their brands through our flexible packaging for sauces used in slow cookers skillet meals and other quick prepare and serve meals.
These liquid applications provide modern convenience and appeal which help our customers grow their business.
We see increased sales of films used for lidding labels and thermoform cups that enhance value in dairy applications such as yogurt and pudding.
And we see continued interest from our customers for packaging to meet the growing trend of snack-size protein portions for cheeses jerkys and other on-the-go foods.
As we move forward our pipeline of new products and innovations remain strong.
And as I have mentioned before while overall volume is important our main emphasis is to sell more value-added products to customers.
Looking at our Global Packaging segment.
I am very pleased with the solid results this quarter.
Compared to last year we improved operating margin by 100 basis points to 8.6% of sales.
This margin improvement was driven by increased unit volumes our continued pricing discipline and favorable sales mix as we focus globally on introducing higher technology value-added packaging to developing markets.
Unit volumes increased across all geographies of our global business from Latin America to Europe to Asia Pacific.
Specifically as Jerry mentioned we saw increased unit volumes in our value-added packaging for dairy protein medical device and pharmaceutical applications.
For example in Latin America where we already have a strong position in dairy and liquid we are beginning to gain share in meat and cheese categories where our customers are using Bemis packaging to modernize their product lines.
In Europe our high-barrier skinned cook films are now being sold for use in cook-in applications for fresh meat.
In Asia Pacific our new extrusion platform is also poised to grow with the expanding needs of our protein and medical device customers within the region.
We continue to introduce our 9-layer high-barrier films to customers for use in processed meat applications.
Turning to the topic of capital.
As previously guided we continue to expect capital expenditures to be approximately $175 million this year.
This increased investment will fuel growth in 2015 by meeting packaging demands in our target end markets including liquid medical device pharmaceutical and global high-barrier platforms.
As we move beyond 2014 we expect capital expenditures to be around D&amp;A to support increasing global demand for flexible packaging.
With respect to raw materials suppliers announced a $0.03 a pound polyethylene increase in September and we are passing this along in accordance with our customer pricing agreements.
Specialty resins have been relatively stable in recent periods.
I'd like to comment briefly on the pending sale of our Pressure Sensitive Materials business.
Over the last 10 years our investment in pressure sensitive business did not keep pace with the market.
While there's certainly a pressure-sensitive growth strategy successful implementation would require substantial investment.
Because Bemis' strategy is to invest in our higher-margin Flexible Packaging segments we made the decision to divest the pressure-sensitive business and focus on our core.
We plan to use the proceeds of the sale to fund growth of our Flexible Packaging business where margins are higher and our growth prospects are substantially greater.
Turning to guidance.
We expect fourth quarter earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $0.53 to $0.58.
Full year guidance from continuing operations therefore falls in the range of $2.26 to $2.31.
Considering the results of discontinued operations our full year guidance range is consistent with the middle of our previously stated guidance.
While fourth quarter tends to be a seasonally lighter quarter for our business I am confident that we will deliver improved performance as compared to the prior fourth quarter as we deliver on our strategy to sell more value-added products.
Overall I'm pleased but not satisfied with the progress we are making toward our long-term strategy.
We are delivering sequentially improving margins.
We are growing our target end markets with value-added packaging solutions and we are positioning ourselves for long-term growth.
As I mentioned before we will move ahead with a heightened sense of urgency as we aggressively attack our operational challenges to deliver increased profit from our growth projects.
And we will continue executing the capacity additions and upgrades to support the increased demand for our value-added products.
I'm excited to begin this next chapter for Bemis and I'm confident in our ability to succeed.
Thank you for your time today.
We will now open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Alax Wang sitting in for George.
Quickly on resin trends.
I know you touched on it on your prepared remarks but we've seen some upward movement both in polyethylene and polypropylene.
Can you talk about your anticipation for resin maybe going forward? Right now Alax we see resin as being stable right where it is.
We don't -- we haven't built anything in that shows an increase where basically stable resin prices moving forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just as a follow-up touching on Global Packaging.
Are you seeing any change in tone in 4Q versus 3Q other than normal seasonality? What are your expectations for trends in 4Q? Alax I am-- I really like our Global Packaging business.
We have put in some capacity over the last couple of years.
We've gotten that capacity positioned where we want it.
We're making great inroads by introducing new technologies into the Global Packaging arena and we're going to continue to be bullish and push on our Global Packaging business.
If you look at the Global Packaging formats right? It's like a staircase.
At the bottom of the staircase is low sophistication at the top of the staircase is high sophistication in packaging and higher margins.
The capacities we've put in the investments we've made over the last few years help our customers move up that sophistication staircase and we feel really good about what we're doing in global and where we're headed both in the food side and in the health care side of things.
So we see that while I can't say that we're going to see 100 basis points move every 90 days in our margins we're going to see an upward trend as we go through the next many many quarters.
Thanks.
And we'll now go to Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird and Company Research Division</strong> It's actually Mehul Dalia sitting in for Ghansham.
Can you help us understand why the trend's actual multiple for PSM was so much lower than recent multiples in the packaging industry? Yes let me take that one this is Bill.
When I came to Bemis it was 14 years ago I actually came into Bemis as the President of our Pressure Sensitive business.
And I know that business very well.
I know that market very well.
And that business on it's -- when it's on the top of its game in its best day it's going to be a 6% to 7% return on sales business.
And we Bemis stopped making investments in that business some time ago.
So if you go back 14 years ago to when I started a lot of new capacity in MACtac came online.
A couple of new coders were started up in the year 2000 1999 to 2000.
Since that time the industry has moved forward.
The market has moved forward.
Technology has moved forward.
Wider Web widths faster speeds different adhesive technologies.
And we didn't really stay up with those market improvements.
So there's going to be while the business will grow minimally to really grow that business it's going to require some new capital injections some new capital investment.
And if you look at Bemis Company as a packaging portfolio we've got much higher and better returns and higher margins in our Flexible Packaging business that don't -- so the MACtac's pressure sensitive margins really don't compare with our Flexible Packaging in margin and return.
Some we're going to take money and put it into Flexible Packaging.
We weren't going to continue to invest to make business at 7% returns.
So it was just a function of where best to focus the company.
We've got the company focused on its core around Flexible Packaging that's where we have better growth opportunities and we have better rates of return.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just another one for you Bill.
Where do you think the strategic focus is going to be as we think ahead to the next 5 years or so.
Is Europe still a market with strategic significance for the company? And should we expect more capital to be allocated towards Asia? Yes it's a very good question.
Europe for us we're on a -- we're doing quite nicely in Europe.
We like the position we have in Europe as a niche player.
As a niche supplier in high-barrier health care and protein packaging.
And we will be making some targeted investments in Europe that are focused at healthcare and high-barrier packaging.
This example of the skin cook film that I mentioned in my verbiage that's a product that's skin tight which is a really great product that helps sell a new format for fresh meats and preprepared foods in Europe.
And one of the large U.K.
grocery chain has just moved their volume of fresh meat cook-in type meets to our skin cook package which is a great example of the investments we've made over the last few years coming now into the market with new technologies.
And in Asia we're going to continue to invest in the emerging economies because as I talk about that staircase of low sophistication to high sophistication as food safety standards continue to move upscale across the entire Asia region not just China our products are ideally positioned to help those customers sell their products in the market.
So we're going to continue to invest in those regions of the world where we have an advantage and where we can be differentiated.
And we'll now go to Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Usha Guntupalli on behalf of Alex.
Looking at the U.S.
Packaging segment could you provide more color on the margin improvement initiatives particularly pricing and better operations? What are you doing differently now versus a few years back? Well I'll take that question here in that if you look at what we're doing differently is it's really the focus on the higher-margin value-added product portfolio that was not as -- it isn't that we weren't there a few years back it's just that now we've got some unique technologies some unique assets focused at these higher-margin higher technology types of packaging applications and that's where we're putting our focus.
And third quarter some of the improvements that we're going to be making going forward now is we have made some key personnel changes within the U.S.
Packaging segment.
We're putting some more engineering resources around the commercialization of new products so that we can bring those products to market quicker without hiccups and we're accelerating the installation -- we're accelerating the capital deployment into the U.S.
Packaging segment so we can bring some equipment to that region quicker and reduce some of the bottlenecks that we've had.
Research Division</strong> So are we talking about 100 to 200 basis points improvement over the next few years from this? Yes.
Our target that we've stated I've stated for U.S.
Packaging is that we want to be between 15% and 18% operating profit within the next 3 or 5 years.
And we'll now go to Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Very refreshing comments Bill.
I want to just turn back to global.
I mean your margins are still quite a lot lower there.
What are going to be the kind of 2 or 3 keys to driving that margin up? And can you get it to the target you just laid out there for the North American business? Yes.
Mark first off our target for global is 10%-plus operating profit and it goes back to that staircase okay? Just think about that staircase.
At the bottom of the staircase low sophistication packaging low value low margin.
Top of the staircase high value high margin.
And we're helping our customers because we're introducing technologies in those parts of the world that come from the developed world right? They come from Europe.
They come from the United States.
We're bringing formats to the customers that they've never seen before that they haven't had the opportunity to market their products in.
So we're bringing those formats to those regions of the world and that's going to help us move up that staircase and get the higher margins and that's our focus in the emerging world along with health care.
The health care packaging if you look at now across Asia there's more and more healthcare being afforded to the population.
So there's a good portion of healthcare pharmaceutical medical device packaging that we're now getting into the Asian marketplace.
With our footprint in Kuala Lumpur with our plant in Suzhou China and now our film platform we can actually make films for that region in the region from our film plant in China.
So we no longer have to ship films from around the world into that region.
So we can better serve those customers with new technologies developed within the region.
Okay.
Just as a follow-on.
That business skews pretty heavily I think in terms of sales right now to Latin America.
Is that going to change? And right now are you seeing any impact from the slowdown in Brazil? A couple of questions there right? The first one would be yes we are heavily skewed in Latin America right? And it's going to take us a while to build the Asian business to that size.
But we are growing the Asian business quite nicely.
Now have we seen improvements in Latin America from a volume standpoint? We have target end markets right that we'd like to talk about liquid dairy meat cheese protein if you will as well as health care.
We've seen nice gains in meat and cheese in Latin America and we've seen some gains in our pharmaceutical business down in Latin America.
So these are target markets that we like to be in and that's where we're pushing and that's where we're seeing volume growth.
And we'll now go to Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the cash flow guidance you gave how much of the $60 million to $65 million operating cash flow guidance reduction was attributable to the divestiture of PSM versus the inflation and high working capital that you talked about? And can you just put into context to what extent you're expecting the inflation and/or working capital and how much that surprised you? Yes Adam I'm going to have Jerry answer that one.
Hi Adam.
Well in terms of the range we gave in terms of the reduction just one thing I want to point out is where we end up in that range will partially depend on the timing of the pressure-sensitive divestiture.
As we indicated we're targeting closing that transaction in the fourth quarter but depending on exactly when we do will impact where we are in that range.
For instance out of the reduction about $10 million to $20 million of that reduction relates to pressure-sensitive.
Considering the lack of operations we'll have in the fourth quarter whether it be 1 month or 2 months or whatever.
And also some related closing costs to the transaction.
The balance of that reduction is roughly 50-50 split between 2 items.
One item being raw material inflation that becomes part of inventory costs and eventually works its way to accounts receivable as these cost increases are passed on to our customers.
And secondly it's the inventory quantity increases in the supply chain resulting from the inefficiencies we experienced as we commercialized some of the new business that Bill talked about.
We will see these levels shrink over time as the action plan Bill mentioned is implemented and as we install some new equipment that will add capacity and help alleviate some of these bottlenecks.
So the balance of it like I said is split between those 2 items.
Research Division</strong> So along those lines to the extent there'll be some of those issues as transitory what do you consider normalized operating cash flow for the company following the sale of PSM? Right.
I think historically pressure-sensitive contributed about $30 million a year to our cash flow.
This year it was substantially lower because of the Stow closure costs which included the withdrawal liability from the multi-employer pension plan.
So that's the impact pressure-sensitive would typically have on our cash flow.
I think as we get -- come out next quarter we'll be giving you guidance for the future.
And we'll now go to Al Kabili with Macquarie.
I wanted to follow up on Adam's question on the cash flow.
And can you give us a sense for how you're thinking about working capital? It looks like it's going to be a use for the year? How you see that ranging that's factored in your operating cash flow outlook? Well as I think I just indicated we talked about pressure-sensitive impact for the balance of the year.
We talked about raw material inflation that's become part of inventory and it becomes part of AR as we pass those costs through.
It's the inventory quantity increases that we've seen in the supply chain because of the commercialization of new business that Bill talked about.
That will take a little longer to flow out.
We need to implement our action plan we need to add the capacity that's in process and that will help alleviate some of those bottlenecks.
So over time we expect that to shrink.
Okay.
And are we thinking like a use of $20 million $25 million net of working cap this year? And just can you help us quantify the sort of inefficiencies what that was as far as cost in this quarter and how long you think it's going to take for that to alleviate? Thanks.
In terms of the use for the year Al I would imagine that's going to be about $50 million for the year.
And like I said the balance I laid out for Adam we talked about the reduction $10 million to $20 million is PSM the balance of it is roughly between the raw material inflation and the inventory ramp-ups.
The inventory ramp-ups I would think that throughout next year as we get through first and second quarter we'll see some pretty significant decreases in that.
And we'll now go to Scott Gaffner with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk a little bit more about the growth investments that you're making.
A couple of things.
One can you talk about how you look at the returns profile on those investments whether payback period et cetera? And then also at the same time are your customers investing alongside you? Is that a requirement? Or is this investment you're making irrespective of customer contribution? Yes.
First off let me -- as I've said earlier in my comments one thing I'm committed to is improving our performance metrics one of which is ROIC.
And what we're now looking at from a capital investment perspective we have an ROIC hurdle.
Now let me explain this okay? What we're saying to the teams that want to invest in capacity and invest in growth is that their investment in capital has got to have a 5-year average of 15% return on invested capital hurdle.
So at that period they look at it and they say okay does it have a 15% average ROIC over the first 5 years of the project? And we have got plenty of opportunities that the guys -- that the teams are coming in with that have got those -- that hurdle in excess of.
So again it's not a one point in time but it's a 5-year average for that investment needs to have a 15% average ROIC.
And if it does we just gauge them next to all the other projects and go about it that way.
Now the second point to your question was our customers investing.
Some of them yes.
And some of our investments are geared up and matched with some of our customers' investments that they're making in some new type of packaging technologies.
A lot of that takes place in the emerging world because there's new packaging formats coming to the emerging world so we're linked up with some of our customers in the emerging world as well as the developed markets as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just following up on that.
You said you had plenty of opportunity that the teams are coming in with.
I mean was it just not a desire maybe over the last few years to aggressively go after these projects? And on the CapEx equaling D&amp;A I assume you mean ex PSM if you could just clarify that? Yes that is correct your comment about ex PSM yes that is correct.
Over the last couple of years as I talked earlier and I talked to a lot of folks already we had a very big internal focus over the last few years because we made the purchase of Alcan.
We consumed a lot of capacity when we purchased Alcan and we first coordinated specifications in that Alcan hotdog film.
We had a hotdog film.
They had cheese packaging we had cheese packaging.
We took our resources and had them go through the portfolio and say okay which is the better spec.
We determined which were the better specs and then we determined where is the best place to run all these specs.
So that was the plant consolidation effort where we moved pieces of equipment around our portfolio around the footprint of plants to determine where best to run things and where best to move equipment.
We now have absorbed that capacity that we purchased with Alcan and now we're back on the trail of investing for growth with new capital.
We'll now go to Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I first want to say the excitement and the -- some of the ideas that you're bringing on the table here particularly looking at returns and margin profile is very very exciting and refreshing and we look forward to having all these goals unveiled to us.
Thanks.
And coming from you that's a complement.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions I wanted to ask.
First was when we think about some of the volume trajectory through the quarter.
On the surface looking at the slides it would appear as though you kind of doubled previous rates as much better.
But I think in earlier comments you mentioned a good chunk of it was price.
Can you give us a sense as to where you are in the price curve? If we look over the last few years seemingly you're probably still a bit behind but it sounds like you're starting to catch up.
The pricing actions you're taking are they more formulaic material-based? Are you out looking for areas to recover higher labor other miscellaneous inflation costs? Where are you at kind of in this process? Yes.
First off we are aggressively driving price.
Now we do have within the United -- within North America we have a large percentage of our business on contract so that's formulaic as you put it Chris right where we have a price adjustment formula and we adjust our price that way.
The portion of the business that is not under those types of formulaic contracts we're out there aggressively managing price to our advantage when we can.
Outside the United States we don't have these large formulaic price adjustment formulas with customers and we are outdriving price outside in Global Packaging and in our health care area all the time.
It's just part of the way the business teams are now metric-ed for their performance.
It's on price and pushing price and not being in a lag.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So this is something then that takes a little bit of time maybe a couple of years to work through but this is -- that's -- the crux is it's in process? It's in process and I wouldn't say it's going to take a couple of years.
This is -- we got to get this done now and there's a sense of urgency around it with the teams.
We'll now go to Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Bill you talked about using the proceeds of PSM to fund growth.
And as you look at growth over the next 2 to 3 years do you have a bias towards organic internal opportunities versus M&amp;A? And then on the M&amp;A front you obviously had the large Alcan acquisition a few years back and since then everything has been kind of smaller bolt-on below $100 million.
As you work towards M&amp;A given that you're pretty much at your target range is there an opportunity to do something a little bit bigger? Or how do you think about that going forward? Yes.
I'll tell you here's how we're thinking about it.
First off obviously the best or close to the best use of cash is to fund organic growth where we have high-margin differentiated product technologies that we can bring to customers to help them grow that's what we're going to do okay? That's number one.
We want to grow organically and we think that's the best use of our cash.
We're also going to be out looking for acquisitions.
There's no question that we are going to get back on the acquisition trail and we're going to be looking for those things that add footprint add scale add technology.
And that's going to be -- that's not going to be consistent around the world if you will.
It will be different in different regions of the world.
So yes we're funding organic growth funding acquisitions paying a dividend we paid a dividend for -- increased our dividend for 31 years and I've jokingly told people I'm not going to be the guy that goes down in history that's changing that and the fourth one would be opportunistic buys of share buyback.
And we have an authorization I think of 8.3 million shares from our board.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just following up in the U.S.
you spoke about the weakness in dry food confectionary snack food and we've been seeing this for a number of quarters.
I'm just wondering as you went through the 3 months of the quarter and maybe in October consumer confidence has picked up gasoline prices are down grain prices are down.
Are you seeing any indication that there's just a little bit stronger growth for packaged food demand in the U.S.
or is it pretty much steady as she goes? I really like the way you think because one of the -- and it's anecdotal right? As you talk to some of the major CPG companies they will tell you that gasoline price directly impacts the sale through convenience stores.
And that's where they make their highest margins is that impulse buy somebody puts $20 into their tank goes inside and it's got $5 left or $4 left and they buy the P3 the Kraft P3 protein pack.
They buy the Hormel prewrapped turkey wrap.
We like that because those are our packages.
That's where we sell and it's that on-the-go grab-and-go type foods that we like.
So I don't have any data wrapped around it but I would hope to see that as gasoline prices come down we're going to start to see food volumes go up.
And that helps us it helps our customers and in turn then that helps us.
But as we get into October we've got nice orders trends going on in October right now so I can't say that it's related to lower gasoline prices as you might suggest but we could certainly use that low gas price as a tailwind.
We'll now go to Philip Ng with Jefferies and Company.
Research Division</strong> Bill encouraged to hear about some of these longer-term margin targets going forward.
Is that mostly going to be driven by price or some of these growth investments you're making? And then I was pleased to hear you're taking a more aggressive stance on price going forward but with oil falling at least in the short to medium term how is that conversation going to go for your customer because I would imagine it's going to have an impact on resin at some point.
We like the fact that we got a robust pipeline of innovation and new products coming out because that's when you can price the product the highest right? It's when you launch a new product to meet a customer demand to help them get the package off the shelf get it into the consumers' cart better right out of the chute you get high prices.
With a falling demand if you will or low oil prices the Asian demand is softening so yes could there be some weakness in resin pricing or in specialty chemicals going forward? Maybe.
But we're really driving this thing from a mix perspective and increasing the mix of higher value-add products and that's where we have higher margins and higher prices.
Right now we haven't had the conversation obviously about falling resin prices because they haven't fallen.
So we're going to continue to push on price the way we have been not just in the U.S.
but around the world.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just switching gears a little bit into your Global Packaging business it's nice to see margins tick up pretty nicely in Q3.
What's driving that improvement? Is that mostly mix? Mostly price? And this level of improvement is it sustainable going forward? Yes.
It's really the fact that we're starting to get traction with new product introductions in the emerging world.
I mean a large -- one of the largest or the largest processed meat company in Brazil has taken their entire line of processed meats and cheese to one of our packages that we've had no traction in before because they were just selling it in a 3-side seal nylon poly pouch before.
Now it is in a very very upscale high-end high graphics peelable resealable package that sells in Europe.
They're now taking across their entire line in Latin America.
So it's new product introductions.
The skin cook film over in Europe is a brand-new technology that comes from our skin film format which we're just putting in additional capacity so we can meet those customers' demands.
So it's really the introduction of new products higher-end value-added products.
Just keep thinking about that staircase.
We're helping our customers move up the staircase to higher value-add higher-margin products.
We'll now go to Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> First question is just a couple of housecleaning things.
The 15% average ROIC is that pretax or after-tax? After-tax.
LLC</strong> Okay.
After.
Okay.
And I might have missed this and I apologize but you mentioned some long-term margin goals.
And I know you've in the past the company has said that the global segment is something more than 10%.
Do you have a similar -- do you have a target for the U.S.
business? And I think you said that there was an overall target as well? For U.S.
packaging it's 15% to 18% operating profit.
That's our goal.
That's where those guys are headed.
That's their target.
And what you said Chip about global is correct 10%-plus.
And we'll now go to Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> As we sit here today I guess more importantly I guess as we go into 2015 I was wondering what your -- what is your rough mix of business between your high-barrier value-added products versus low barrier and commodity business and how should we expect that to trend over time? In the U.S.
our current mix of high barrier so we think of high barrier being meat cheese dairy liquid it's roughly half of our U.S.
business.
And then the other dry foods candies snacks et cetera all those things would make up the second half.
And Bill I'll let you comment on your thoughts of mix of business as we move forward.
The mix of -- we want to shift.
Obviously we've wanted to shift and we have been shifting and we've been moving from the lower barrier if you will and to the middle -- to the high barrier.
So we've been moving away from more and more of the bottle over-wraps snack food packaging candy confection packaging up to the left-hand side if you recall our investor presentation the left-hand bars of meat cheese dairy liquid where there's high barrier more technology.
Customers aren't willing to put those brands at risk so they've got to have high quality great service and constant differentiation of products.
So we'll continue to move in the direction of high barrier.
And right now I don't have a percentage in my mind as to where that's going to be.
It will -- the trend will continue to increase toward the high barrier side of the equation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess as a follow-up you mentioned a focus on ROIC targets for your new products product development.
And I'm just wondering what type of incentives or potential changes to accountability that your team now has to achieve those targets? And to be fair I think in the past the industry as a whole has kind of just struggled to get paid for some of these innovation and benefits from long-term projects? Right.
Well in 2015 not just the officer team at Bemis but the regional teams and people in the regions will be incentive comped on ROIC ROS growth and safety.
So ROIC becomes a part of the regional teams and so does return on sales.
So we're really putting a hard push and a drive on return metrics and improving those return metrics.
We'll now go to with Frederick [indiscernible] with Lumbar Investment Partners [ph].
A couple of follow ups.
But really I wondered if you could talk about what the use of proceeds from the pressure-sensitive divestiture whether given the underperformance of the shares whether you expect given the authorization of insured repurchase to resume that? And then thinking about your targets it's great with ROIC but can you commit on any M&amp;A that you -- that these deals will be accretive to earnings having just divested a business that was -- it turned out to be heavily dilutive to earnings.
Can you commit to making acquisitions if you do even bolt-ons that will be accretive to free cash flow earnings? Yes.
First off the question around M&amp;A yes we are looking at -- when we look at M&amp;A right now as a -- 3 years it needs to be accretive to ROIC that's one of the goals we have as we look at that and how we're going to drive synergies and now we're going to drive growth so that we can achieve the accretive ROIC.
And the other part of your question was around? Oh share repurchase I'm sorry.
Share repurchase.
We're authorized from our board for 8.3 million shares.
And again we've got a view of capital allocation as organic growth inorganic growth share repurchase dividend not necessarily in that order but that is one of our criteria that we look at with our capital allocation.
And just as a follow-on it seems like one of the most interesting opportunities you have is really on the health care side pharma and medical device and the packaging there.
And can you tell us just where you are in terms of that and how much new business you gained? You sort of hinted I thought when you said the commercialization of new business am I to assume that that really is coming increasingly from Pharma? And what should the impact? Should that also increase margins? Is that a higher-margin business? And is the trend really that that's where the lion's share of your new wins should come from? Yes.
We really like what we would call health care okay which is medical device and pharma.
And we have been making investments in that area for quite some time and good investments for the reasons you stated.
It does have good margins.
And it has very nice margins and healthy margins.
And if you look at our growth in that segment we're up mid-single digits from a volume growth perspective.
So another reason we like that.
Also you have very sticky customers in health care and pharma.
As long as you continue to produce high-quality on-time products with new innovation you keep those customers for a long time.
And it's all about quality it's all about cleanliness it's all about having world-class manufacturing which we do.
And just along those lines we talk about our CapEx investment.
We just broke ground a couple of weeks ago on an expansion for growth in our health care business here in Wisconsin a $25 million investment to double the size of one of our health care facilities.
And that's about growth.
So that's where we're headed with pharma it's a great question because that's where we're going.
We'll now go back to Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Yes.
I wondered if you could just put a little color or perhaps some numbers about how the roll-in from some of these new business wins will occur as we move through 2015? Yes.
It's not like there's a step function there.
As customers begin to commercialize and they begin to trial market and then the trial market goes to -- more of a trial market goes to more states goes to more regions it ramps up.
So you got to really view the incoming business as a ramp not a step.
Okay.
But it sounds like in the quarter you must have been building some inventory in front of some -- I would assume some pretty significant product rollouts.
Yes.
We were.
We did bring on some business within the quarter that will ramp up through 2015 and we had to get it through trial we had to get it through customer I can't think of the word right now but it's where they do trial marketing.
It's taken off quite well.
And now it's going to ramp up as we go through 2015.
In the long run it's -- in baseball terms it might be a double or a triple but when you start out it's a single.
And we will now go back with George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I jumped on late.
I've been listening and we'll do a little bit of catch up afterwards but I've covered Bemis for a long time and I'm looking at my long-term models here and a lot of what you're talking about focusing on high barrier focusing on health care investing in growth we've heard from the company for a number of years.
Return on invested capital is flat to down over a 15-year period and I'm looking at margins are down over that time and the resins had an effect here.
So what is in your view most different about the new Bemis now with all of this focus relative to the old Bemis? Is it that you finally put teeth into the incentives driving more return on invested capital would you say that's it or what else is it? George I would say that what you just described as teeth in the incentives that's going to be a piece of it.
But the other part of it is we've got a vision that's externally focused okay? It's focused on the markets it's focused on customers it's focused on helping those customers succeed in the marketplace versus we've been very internally focused over the last several years.
Let's grind out harder turn the wheel turn the crank harder.
Now we've got to take that and get it focused on the marketplaces which is what we're doing.
Which is why we're growing in our footprint in other parts of the world which is why customers are asking us to come to other parts of the world and service them the way that we service them in the U.S.
It's just getting more customer-centric if you will getting more market-centric where do we have differentiation where can we drive that differentiation and how do we extrapolate that differentiation from a developed business to an emerging business.
And that's helping us grow and that's going to help us grow in the future.
Research Division</strong> What -- my follow-up would be then what adjustment or what component in your analysis have you left for the world not being static? In other words your competition also trying to emulate what you're doing and trying to move up the food chain so to speak with what they're offering their customers as well.
How much do you think your customer -- excuse me your competition might be able to derail your plans through their own offerings? Thanks.
In a simple world it would be technology right? We view ourselves as having somewhat of a technology advantage to already be differentiated and continuing to push on that differentiation.
It was about 1.5 years ago we hired a chief technology officer came in from Dow Chemical.
We have now wrapped ourselves around a much different technology model than we had in the past.
We've got a technology center where we start to leverage that technology across regions across market segments meat and cheese into health care.
Meat and cheese into medium barrier snack food packaging for Asia Pacific because the snack food packaging in Asia Pacific is much different than the snack food packaging in the United States.
Snack food packaging in Asia has got to have barrier components it has to have anti-scalping agents.
It has to have components that you wouldn't see in snack food in the U.S.
So we're able to extrapolate that into the other parts of the world.
It's getting this big technology engine that we have at Bemis focused on the customer and focused on the markets and that's what's going to drive our growth.
We'll now go to Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> One housekeeping one and just a strategic one.
Jerry what are you expecting in terms of decreases in interest expense next year and potential increases in pension expense? In terms of decrease in interest expense I think I did lay out the change in our bonds it's the only bonds that we have retiring here in the near term so we did reduce that interest rate on that $400 million of debt based on current interest rates over 4% 4.5%.
In terms of pension costs we have not completed our final calculations for the year.
We'll have to see where discount rates are at the end of the year as we do our calculations and next quarter we'll be able to talk about that.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And Bill you talked about driving price across your business wherever possible and that you're doing so as quickly as possible.
Can you just give us some perspective as to how -- what you're doing represents a notable change from what you and the company have been doing over the past several years? Simply we built a lot of analytics now into what we're doing in pricing.
And it's not so much guesswork.
We're really looking at the analytics of pricing and value pricing versus I think it should be this I think it should be that.
It's not a cost buildup it's a price.
And it's a market price analysis as to what's the value of this versus the value of something else.
So it's really more wrapped around analytics and value pricing.
Research Division</strong> And Bill just one last one.
You referred to the key personnel changes you made in U.S.
Packaging recently.
Why the need for those changes? Were they all related to the inefficiencies in ways that you talked about that affected you this quarter? Or is there something else going on as well that led to those changes? I don't want to get real specific on that but -- because it did impact people.
But a combination of both it's a combination of building a better efficient business in North America and it's a function of putting in the right skill set for the size of the business that it is today.
For our last question in the question queue we'll go to Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> Quick question.
As I look at your earnings from continuing operations for the year and your prior guidance before you sold the Pressure Sensitive Materials business it looks like you're kind of starting out about $0.19 to $0.29 below the 8 ball if I do my math right -- I'm sorry $0.24 behind the 8 ball so call it $0.22.
And some of that I assume will be made up next year from either lower interest or lower shares.
But the bulk of that is going to have to be made up in the future.
And now I'm just wondering would some of that have gone away because without investing in pressure -- PSM you would have saw results go down? Or do you really have to just go on offense to make up all of that? And how long do you think that will take? Do you think it will take 1 year or 2? Well your math is pretty accurate on what Pressure Sensitive was meaning from the sense of earnings per share.
But as we take our investments and we put it into flexible packaging we have much better growth opportunities more substantial growth opportunities at higher margin rates then we did in Pressure Sensitive Materials.
And we can grow the margins.
LLC</strong> No I understand that but I didn't know why you couldn't just keep Pressure Sensitive Materials and then keep -- just keep it and then maybe add a little bit of modest leverage to do those other things is it just because it might have been too distracting? I'm sorry I didn't quite get the question I got it now.
If you look at that business and as I said earlier I'm very familiar with it those margins in that business are going to be on the best day 7% okay? I mean we're not just going to be able -- we were not going to be able to want to keep that going and invest in our high-margin Flexible Packaging growth areas.
So it was best for us to put it into the hands of somebody that wants to invest in it and wants to grow it versus us where we've got our business focused on flexible packaging our people focused on flexible packaging and that's where our best opportunities for growth are.
It appears we do not have any additional questions in our queue.
And I'll turn the call back to Erin Winters.
Thank you.
Thank you all for joining us today and that concludes our conference call.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Bemis Company Hosted Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Erin Winters.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter 2014 conference call.
Today is January 29 2015.
After today's call a replay will be available on our website bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are: Bemis Company's President and Chief Executive Officer Bill Austen; our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mike Clauer; and our Vice President and Treasurer Melanie Miller.
Today Bill will begin with comments on strategy and outlook for 2015.
Mike will then discuss financial performance.
After our comments we'll answer any questions you have.
However in order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate we do ask that you limit yourself to one question at a time with a related follow-up and then fall back into the queue for any additional questions.
At this time I'd like to direct you to our website bemis.com under the Investor Relations tab where you'll find our press release along with supplemental schedules.
We'll be referring to these schedules at points throughout today's discussion.
On today's call we'll also discuss non-GAAP financial measures as we talk about Bemis's performance.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures that we consider most comparable can be found in the press release and supplemental schedules.
I'd like to remind everyone that statements regarding future performance of the company made during this call are forward-looking and therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results will differ materially -- may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors.
Please refer to Bemis Company's regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 to review these factors.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill Austen.
Thank you Erin and good morning everyone.
Today we reported earnings from continuing operations of $0.57 per share for the fourth quarter and $2.30 for the full year 2014 near the top end of our most recent guidance.
On balance we made progress toward our performance improvement goals.
We divested our noncore paper packaging and Pressure Sensitive Material businesses we increased earnings per share from continuing operations 10%.
We increased sales of our target end markets in the U.S.
and around the world including packaging for dairy and liquid products as well as medical device and pharmaceutical applications.
We increased operating profit margins in our Global Packaging segment by 50 basis points with strong momentum in the second half of the year where margins averaged above 8% reflecting excellent progress toward our goal of double-digit returns in this segment.
We invested $185 million in new capacity to support growth and productivity improvements.
And with our leverage in check we increased our dividend and also repurchased 3.8 million shares.
While I am pleased with our progress and the changes we've initiated there is still much work ahead.
During 2015 we will commercialize new business with a keen focus on operational efficiency to reduce waste maximize throughput and achieve commercial scale at an accelerated pace.
We will improve our working capital discipline to generate higher cash flow.
And most importantly as we execute our growth strategy in 2015 we will continue to increase our key performance metrics of return on invested capital return on sales and earnings per share.
We confidently begin 2015 with a positive momentum and strength.
We are expanding capacity to support growing demand for liquid and medical device packaging.
Our pipeline of innovative products is strong and we are prioritizing the most valuable opportunities.
Our focus on our customers is more intense than ever.
We succeed when we are critical to our customers' success and it is a priority for the organization to continue to strengthen and expand our relationships with customers.
We have aligned our incentive pay plans to our key performance metrics of return on invested capital and return on sales.
We have the people and the resources in place and we have high expectations of ourselves.
Turning to guidance.
Our 2015 earnings per share guidance is $2.52 to $2.67 which represents another double-digit increase over the prior year.
Where we are in the range may depend on: Impact of currency in Latin America; volume growth in our target end markets; and successful commercialization of new business.
A bit of color on these factors: First with regard to currency.
We have a successful packaging business in Latin America that contributes just under $1 billion in sales.
Our primary currency exposure in Latin America is the Brazilian real which weakened by approximately 10% in both 2013 and 2014 creating headwind when we translate those profits for reporting purposes.
Our 2015 guidance assumes currencies at today's rates.
The second item that may impact where we are in the range is sales volume.
We have a number of growth initiatives underway that we expect to provide volume increases in 2015.
In U.S.
Packaging unit volume in our dairy and liquid end markets increased by mid-single digits in 2014 reflecting strong demand for our Flexible Packaging used in puddings yogurts fruit slurries baby foods and sauces.
Our investment to expand capacity for these products enables our customers to continue the conversion from rigid to flexible packaging formats.
We will continue our strong pricing discipline in end markets such as confections snack pet food and various dried foods where technology and differentiation is less important.
Clearly this strategy has resulted in lower sales volumes in these categories during 2014 and we are selectively improving our competitive position with investments to support these end markets.
In Latin America volume in the first half of 2014 was lower reflecting softer consumer demand.
But volume grew in the second half of the year.
We expect our high-barrier product commercializations to provide continued strength and differentiation in this region.
In addition our health care business is strong.
We increased sales volume in medical device and pharmaceutical packaging this past year and we expect this to continue.
With the increased complexity in the global health care market our unique packaging is critical to meet the stringent demands of safety and sterility.
And finally the third item that may impact where we are within the range is our successful commercialization of new business.
As we ramped up various new business awards in 2014 our margins were dampened by startup waste and inefficiency.
As I previously stated we have taken actions to overcome these growing pains and we will return to normal efficiency levels during 2015.
I continue to be confident as we move ahead with a heightened sense of urgency to achieve our full profit potential.
Now with regard to the resin environment.
First as I have mentioned before it is important to remember that our business is designed not to win or lose from movements in resin prices.
Over the years we have worked to shorten the lag time associated with passing along resin price changes to our customers in order to minimize volatility in our earnings.
2014 was a relatively stable year for resin with increases in polyethylene in February and September followed by decreases in November and December.
Regardless of where prices land during 2015 we will continue to pass along changes in resin prices per our customer agreements.
Even if resin prices drop we would only anticipate a slight tailwind in the operating profit during the quarter following the movement.
In summary 2014 was a pivotal year in the execution of our strategy.
From our previous internal focus on optimizing our footprint to an external focus on accelerating disciplined growth delivering innovation and continuously improving all we do.
I am optimistic about the prospects for growth in 2015 and I am pleased to welcome Mike Clauer as part of the Bemis leadership team.
Mike's industry experience business perspectives and drive for superior performance will be integral for the successful execution of our strategy.
Before turning it over to Mike just a reminder that we will be holding our first Investor Day on March 10 in New York City.
Our global operating team and I look forward to seeing you there.
Now I'll turn it over to Mike to discuss the financials.
Thanks Bill and good morning.
I had the pleasure of working with some of you in my past roles and I'm looking forward to meeting the rest of you in March.
As Bill mentioned we reported earnings from continuing operations of $0.50 -- $0.57 per share for the fourth quarter and $2.30 for the full year in 2014.
This is a 16% increase compared to the prior fourth quarter and a 10% increase for the full year.
In the fourth quarter our business is typically slower than our seasonally stronger second and third quarters.
During the quarter we continued to achieve year-over-year growth in our target end markets both in the U.S.
and globally.
I will begin by commenting on each reportable segment followed by overall company performance for the fourth quarter and the full year.
As I discuss revenue by reportable segment refer to Page 5 of the supplemental schedules which provide detail on the year-over-year changes in net sales by reportable segment.
First U.S.
Packaging.
Our U.S.
business represents approximately 2/3 of total Bemis sales from continuing operations.
In the fourth quarter excluding the impact of the March divestiture of our Paper Packaging Division our U.S.
segment delivered organic growth of approximately 2% which was driven by primarily by favorable price mix.
Next I'll cover full year net sales and provide more color on unit volume.
For the full year 2014 and again excluding divestitures our U.S.
segment delivered organic growth of 1.1% which was driven primarily by favorable price mix.
Overall unit volumes for the full year were down approximately 2% as compared to 2013.
Some insights on that breakdown.
Unit volumes increased in our target dairy and liquid end markets by mid-single-digit percentages compared to last year.
Unit volumes also increased for industrial application as -- applications as well as multipack film which is used as over -- for bottled beverages.
Prices -- [Audio Gap] Driven by consumers -- [Audio Gap] By higher cheese prices during 2014.
Recently cheese prices have started to fall so we would expect demand for cheese to rebound.
For the full year unit volume declined mid-single-digit percentages in our dry foods bakery and confectionery and snacks.
U.S.
Packaging operating margin for the fourth quarter of 12.9% compares with adjusted operating margin of 12.5% for the prior fourth quarter.
For the full year operating margin increased 13 point -- increased to 13.1% compared to 12.8% the prior year.
Both our fourth quarter and full year returns benefited from the paper package divestiture and higher unit sales to our targeted dairy and liquid end markets.
During the third and fourth quarters of 2014 our returns in U.S.
Packaging were dampened by startup costs associated with new business commercialization.
As Bill mentioned we are keenly focused on operational efficiencies improvements in 2015 which will ensure we meet our full margin potential on this new business.
Now I'll move to our Global Packaging segment which represents approximately 1/3 of total Bemis sales from continuing operations.
Our global segment delivered another strong full quarter following the middle of Page 5 in the supplemental schedules in the fourth quarter Global Packaging sales decreased 1.5%.
Currency in Latin America decreased sales by 9.3%.
Excluding currency Global Packaging delivered strong organic growth of 7.8% driven by both favorable price mix and unit volume increases.
Unit volumes in Global Packaging during the fourth quarter were up approximately 1% with increases in our target end markets of high-barrier perishable food and also medical devices and pharmaceutical packaging.
Moving to full year sales total Global Packaging net sales for 2014 were down 0.6%.
Excluding the impact of currency and acquisitions our global business delivered organic growth of 4%.
For the full year overall unit volumes were down roughly 1% more than offset by increased price mix.
Unit volumes in the first half of the year were down as a result of overall soft consumer demand but unit volumes increased during the second half of the year.
Specifically unit volumes were strong in our target end markets servicing health care and high barrier packaging for food such as meat across Latin America Europe and Asia.
Global Packaging operating margins for the fourth quarter was a strong -- was strong at 8% of net sales and compares with adjusted operating margin of 6.8% for the prior fourth quarter.
For the full year operating margins increased to 7.6% in 2014 compared to 7.1% in 2013.
Currency negatively impacted operating profits by $6.4 million for the year.
Increased operating margin for the year was a result of higher selling prices and better mix in target end markets with volume growth in the second half of the year contributing to higher returns.
Now on to consolidated Bemis results.
Selling general and administrative expenses for continuing operations was 9.6% of net sales for the full year a decrease compared to 10% for the full year of 2013.
This improvement is a reflection of disciplined cost controls and we expect this discipline to continue in 2015.
R&amp;D expense for the full year was $44 million a 10% increase consistent with our strategy to accelerate the pace of innovation and commercialization of new products.
The income tax rate from continuing operations for the full year 2014 was 34.3%.
We expect the rate for '15 to be approximately 34%.
Cash flow from operations for the full year 2014 totaled $248 million.
Cash from operations was unfavorably impacted by roughly $50 million due to onetime items in the first half of the year related to plant closures and divestitures.
In addition working capital was a use of cash by approximately $150 million.
Roughly half of this use was accounts receivable and the remaining use was related to increases in inventory and decreases in payables.
Regardless this level of cash flow is unacceptably low.
One of my priorities for 2015 will include a sharp focus on working capital discipline especially in managing inventory levels during new product commercializations.
Capital expenditures for the fourth quarter were approximately $70 million bringing our total year capital spend to $185 million in line with our expectations set earlier in the year.
We anticipate 2015 capital expenditures to be between $185 million and $200 million to support growth and productivity projects in our pipeline.
Quickly touching on our leverage metric net debt to adjusted EBITDA at the end of the fourth quarter was 2.1x in line with our targeted rate of 2x.
During 2015 we intend to generate strong cash flow invest capital wisely and not accumulate cash.
Our priorities continue to be: Support our dividend program invest in capital projects fund strategic acquisitions and share repurchases.
Looking next at ROIC return on invested capital the goal has been to improve this metric year-over-year.
Following Page 6 of the supplemental schedules in 2014 ROIC increased to 9.7% compared to 9.3% in 2013 and 9% in 2012.
As outlined on the schedule we have chosen to adopt and assume a constant tax rate with this calculation to better depict true operational performance.
We will continue to target year-over-year improvement in ROIC by making sound capital investments and improving overall earnings performance.
Turning to the full year outlook.
Before reviewing the details of 2015 I'll comment on our decision to provide annual guidance on a go forward basis versus the prior practice of annual plus quarterly guidance.
To be clear this is -- new practice is being implemented as a matter of preference only.
There is no changes in the predictability of our business.
Similar to history you can continue to expect second and third quarters to be our seasonally strong quarters in a given year.
As Bill mentioned we have established an adjusted EBIT -- EPS range for 2015 of $2.52 to $2.67 which represents a double-digit increase compared to 2014 continuing operations.
Our guidance assumes foreign currency remains at current levels and would exclude any non-reoccurring items.
Let me walk through a few of the items that we have considered in this range.
First as you may recall last summer $400 million in bonds were refinanced from a fixed interest rate of 5.65% to a combination of variable rate debt that in today's environment equates to approximately 1%.
Assuming rates stay low this will continue to drive a favorable year-over-year pretax savings of approximately $1.5 million per month through July of 2015.
Next pension expense.
Our frozen pension plans remain adequately funded and no contributions to the plan are necessary in 2015.
With the recent required changes to the mortality tables and decline in the discount rate partially offset by favorable 2014 asset returns our pension expense will increase by approximately $5 million in '15.
The remaining year-over-year increase in EPS reflects the improvements that will result as we execute our strategy to sell more high-margin products and to invest for growth in enhanced productivity while maintaining a sharp high end cost.
In summary I am looking forward to a great 2015.
I made the decision to join the team at Bemis because this company has a great deal of opportunity and potential.
Potential to improve its financial performance increase its competitive advantage and create shareholder value.
We have a lot of work to do.
Our strategy is right.
We have resources aligned and we have the drive and talent to execute.
I see great things for this company and am proud to be part of it.
With that we'll turn the call over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
[Technical Difficulty] We are experiencing a momentary pause in today's conference.
Please remain on the line.
[Technical Difficulty] We'll take our next question from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Bill my question was really for you and it was around the guidance.
And specifically more around your specific methodology and philosophy around the guidance.
Specifically your new management team -- right I'm not sure -- I know you're part of the company before but you're switching from annual guidance I'm sorry from annual and quarterly but more specifically are you thinking more top down? Are you rolling up from the segment forecast? Are you more conservative? More aggressive? Just trying to get a feel for the way you think about the guidance.
Yes it's a good question Scott and it's one that we've kicked around here quite a bit.
In March we're going to lay out our objectives for the next several years.
And the global leadership team the operating team that's going to be at that meeting has got specific plans for their regions of the world that are going to be projected over the course of a longer term okay? Not a 90-day plan but more of a -- where are we on the strategy where are we on the journey where are we on improving our ROIC trend moving forward.
Where are we on our return on sales trend moving forward.
So we're taking an approach that says we're going to continue to meet quarterly.
We're going to continue to have these conference calls quarterly.
We're going to continue to tell you where we are on our journey on a quarterly basis but that journey is going to be where are we in our longer-term journey.
Where are we on our goals and objectives that we've set out for the company over the longer-term.
And that's going to include product vitality.
What kind of new products we'll be bringing to the market? When are they going to hit the market? What do our sales trends look like? What do the macroeconomic trends look like in those regions of the world that are going to project us onto that journey.
So to do that on a quarterly basis it's just doesn't -- not something we're going to do.
Going to tell you about the year and we're going to give you not guidance but we're going to give you information as to where we stand on our annual journey and where we are in our -- hitting our goals and objectives on the longer term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Sounds reasonable to me.
Just as a follow-up then.
You've had pretty healthy changes in ROIC the last I guess 3 years I mean you're up almost 140 basis points by your numbers 2011 to 2014.
Is -- do you have an ROIC target for 2015 you want to share with us today? No we're going to stick to the same knitting we've always had Scott in that we're going to continue to improve our ROIC the trend is going to be up as we go forward.
And in March we'll lay out what we think our goals and objectives are going to be for the next several years so you'll get to see that in March.
But we don't have a target that we're going to tell you for 2015.
But we've done good work.
I mean if you look at the teams what they've been doing we've been focusing on just as much as to what we're not going to do which is just as important as what we are going to do.
And when we focus on what we're not going to do we start to drive that ROIC up.
We'll take our next question from Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
I wanted to talk briefly about working capital Mike.
Big use of cash in 2014.
What might we expect in 2015? I'm working on plans right now with the organization to make sure that cash that working capital is not a use of cash in 2015.
I'm really not in a position yet having been here only 2 months to determine if it's -- could be a source.
But clearly that's going to be one of my goals is to #1 cash flow from operations before working capital changes should be flat.
There should be no impact to working capital.
And I'm going to try to -- determined to find ways to make it a source in 2015.
Okay.
If I could take the follow on.
Can you just discuss with us in the Brazilian business how much of that is consumer-oriented business versus like protein business that might be more affected by exports and might actually see a benefit from the decline in the Brazilian real? Yes.
This is Bill.
The business that we have in Latin America specifically Brazil along your question our protein business is now becoming more consumer-focused than it had been before.
We have a we had a very nice business in fresh red meat for export which is specifically at your point yes we should see a little bit of help from the export market in Brazil.
But as we talked last time on the call as packaging formats become more and more sophisticated which they have been somewhat in Brazil we start to get more into the consumer segment with our high barrier materials and our high barrier products.
So we've got a mix now.
we've got a mix of export business and we have a mix of consumer business as it relates to protein.
Okay and just in ballpark terms in Brazil or in Latin America how much of it should we think about as kind of direct to the consumer packaging and how much is sort of intermediate packaging? Mostly what we do in Brazil in Brazil itself is focused at the consumer.
So you're looking at probably if I had to cut it 90% is would be consumer-driven and 10% would be for export.
Next we'll hear from Ghansham Panjabi with Baird.
Research Division</strong> First off just in terms of CapEx.
Can you just give us some more color as to where the CapEx dollars are going maybe by geography and also maybe some of the new product examples.
$200 million that would be a record for the company and the company is smaller given the divestitures over the last few years.
So just curious why that number is so high.
Ghansham this is Bill.
You look at what we have in place we have a 60-plus plant network in place around the world.
And just the fact that there are 60 plants there's maintenance and run-the-business kind of capital that's required with 60 plants.
We also have an emerging business in Asia Pacific not just on the food side but in health care and in the electronics arena.
And we'll be investing in all 3 of those product I should say market segments in Asia-Pacific as we go forward.
And if you look at the plant network in the United States in beef U.S.
Packaging you see that we've got productivity gains to be made with some investment that we can put in and those productivity gains help us expand margins improve service and quality across the U.S.
Packaging network.
So we've got good opportunities in U.S.
Packaging for both growth in liquid dairy and high barrier but we also have good opportunities for margin expansion with productivity improvements through capital investment.
And in Europe we continue to have a very nice protein business a high barrier business in Europe where we invested last year.
And we'll be investing in some more of those same type of assets that we put into Europe for flat film.
We'll be investing into that kind of technology in U.S.
Packaging.
So if you split it out it's -- there's a good portion of it goes into U.S.
Packaging a portion of it goes into Asia Pacific.
We have some of the CapEx budget going into Latin America.
But those are basically the 3.
Europe we invested in quite nicely in the last year and now we're going to bring those assets up to speed and fill them in Europe.
Our next question comes from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question was again just on working capital.
So I seem to remember a lower working capital guidance for the year than what wound up being the case.
And there was I think round numbers around a $50 million use in the fourth quarter.
So I am assuming that that's related to some of the new product and new customer awards you've been given.
But if -- could you confirm that and provide a bit more detail? And if that's not what's going on could you provide what the drivers are there? And then I had a follow-on.
You are correct.
I mean the bulk of the use in Q4 was really driven by I think we just underestimated the what the impact of inventory we're building for commercialization around the world.
It's not just in North America it was also in China.
And #2 and when I really dug into the details we just had our sales mix in the Q4 was kind of more towards customers that had longer terms.
So that's kind of what happened.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the 2-part related follow-on.
One if you underestimated the inventory on commercialization does that give us any pause in terms of what the customer takeaway or interest in these new products or a retail pull has been on them thus far? I.e.
is there kind of an inventory problem or not at all? And then more broadly cash from operations recognizing you're still trying to put pen to paper on what working capital will look like for the year.
Is there any way to give us a ballpark for cash from operations? I mean by my math could it be $400 million to $450 million in '15? Thanks guys and I'll turn it over.
George I'm going to answer a piece of that question and Mike's going to answer the rest.
Let me answer the question about the commercialization is there an inventory issue? No there is not.
I feel really good about 2015 and heading into 2015 we came out of 2014 with projects that had already been through the trialing phases that we're scaling up and are going to be commercialized as we go into Q1 and Q2 and Q3 of 2015.
And this is not just in any one region of the world but it's in every region of the world.
In the U.S we've got great traction with our Evolution product line now which is fully commercialized and in the market.
We've got in Latin America the conversion of glass bottle for drinkable yogurt to a unique cup and lid structure that was trialed late last year hit the market in December and now is at full scale-up in retail in Latin America.
In Europe our VSP films have really set ourselves apart from the competition with the type of film we make and those films have created pull through new customers for other products that we have not sold before in Europe.
And in Asia Pacific we qualified several new film structures for the electronics industry medical and pharma and food in late 2014 that will ramp up through commercialization in Q1 and Q3 -- Q2 of 2015.
So I am -- I feel really good about where we are this year versus last year coming out of 2013.
Feel really good feel very positive about where those new products and where they are in their commercialization but also where they are in the marketplace.
I'll turn the other part of it over to Mike.
Yes.
As far as 2015 the way I think about this at this point your numbers are in the zip code.
If you take EBITDA at the midpoint of our guidance our range and then you subtract cash taxes and cash interest I come up with a number of $410 million before any changes in working capital.
And as I mentioned earlier I'm committed to make sure that working capital is not a use of cash in 2015.
Our next question comes from Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> It doesn't sound like you're assuming much tailwind from resin in your guidance so what are the key drivers you're including? And what are you assuming for volumes in your base business versus like the commercialization of new business? Phil this is Bill.
Your question about volume what we looked at what we're looking at for volumes into 2015 and I'm not going to talk about base business or new business.
But overall 2% unit volume growth in U.S.
Packaging is what we're looking at and in global it's 4%.
And that's -- includes the what I would say is the base business as well as the commercialization efforts that we've gone through in late 2014 into 2015 that will bring new business new customers to Bemis Company.
That's -- those are the numbers we're looking at.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just looking at price mix particularly in U.S.
Packaging it does appear like it accelerated a touch based on what you provided color for the full year.
One is that correct? And when you think about 2015 parsing out between mix and price how are you thinking about it? Are you seeing any pushback from your customers on -- with lower raw material prices at this point? Well we get push back from our customers even when raw material prices go up.
It's not just when they go down.
But yes as I said in my prepared statement our model is built around trying to decrease the volatility in earnings when raw materials go up and when they go down.
So if they go up they go down we got about a 90-day window and then it's our pass-through our contracts with customers would pass through those up-and-down movements to the customer base.
So of course we get push back all the time.
There's always conversation about whether raw materials are going up or are they going down but it's no louder than it normally would be.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> First question is on the volume front.
I think you mentioned that internationally of the 4% organic growth about 1% was volume.
And I guess 3% would've been price and mix.
I want to clarify that.
And then as we look at the 7 -- I'm sorry at the 1.1% in the U.S.
for the full year how would you split that between volume on one hand and price and mix in the other? In global you'd see that price mix is up okay? And unit volume was down primarily due to a slow first half of consumption driven in Latin America.
As we went through 2014 in the second half we actually gain some volume and gain some share in Latin America to offset the down first half of the year.
So price mix is good.
We continue to push very hard on price being a leader in Latin America and that would include Mexico Brazil and Argentina.
And we did see volumes increase in the second half of 2014 based on some share gain and some new products that we delivered to the market.
LLC</strong> Right.
I'm sorry I meant it was down 1%.
And how about in the U.S when you look at the overall organic of 1.1%.
How is that split between volume on one hand and price mix on the other? Again sort of -- somewhat the same very strong price mix of about 3% and unit volume down about 2%.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And on the same basis as we look at 2015 and I appreciate the guidance before of 2% in the U.S.
and 4% global will there be any drag I guess is the way to look at it from the divestiture effect or is that all behind us now as we look at 2015? That's gone.
That's behind us.
Our next question comes from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a couple of questions on the resin side.
So I know you guys have said a number of times that you really have set up the business in a way where you pass it through pretty quickly regardless which way it's moving.
But I'm curious because my understanding is that 40% of the business is not contractual.
If I'm understanding sort of some of the commentary from the past correctly.
Can you just talk about the transmission mechanism of lower resin prices to customers that are not on contract? Yes.
About 2/3 of the business let's say is contract.
The other third is not.
So you're close.
It's very close it's ballpark.
But on the customers that are noncontract customers obviously we try to hang on to those price deltas as long as possible.
We are not out there knocking on their doors letting them know that "Oh resin just went down here's your $0.05." We try to hang on to those as long as possible.
We create new structures.
We create new features so that we can try to keep those gains in-house.
But we are not out there proactively lowering price to noncontract customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's really a function of supply and demand fundamentals for that? Correct.
Research Division</strong> And can you maybe talk to those? I mean how does the marketplace feel now for that noncontract business? Is there maybe potential for you to be able to hang on to some of the benefits for longer than in past periods? Is it any different at all in terms of the competitive landscape for the noncontract business? No it's the same as it always has been.
It's a competitive environment.
We do create unique differentiated structures in a lot of those parts of the world that run well on equipment that maintain certain features and functions that that customer is desiring.
So in some cases it's hard for them to move it in other cases it's not.
It just -- it is -- there is a competitive dynamic that exists.
And we try to differentiate ourselves to maintain that competitive dynamic in our favor.
Next we'll hear from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to come back to really maybe go into a little more detail with regards to the earning lock [ph] going from the $2.30 to [Audio gap] the $2.60 at the midpoint of your guidance range.
But one of the areas I wanted to center in on was kind of the raw material component.
And if you buy about 2 billion pounds of resin a year if resin only fell $0.10 and we're looking at some decreases that are bigger than that that might be $200 million on an annual basis.
Even if you held that for a quarter and only for a portion you could be talking about still something could be $25 million to $50 million of a benefit for you on the earnings side.
And maybe something $25 million to $30 million on the working capital side.
So -- maybe help me understand how that's factored into your guidance or is it? It sounds like it's not and maybe what I'm missing with my math.
Chris this is Mike.
I've got industry experience and where I came from I think your statement is probably correct that companies that really pass through quicker are going to get a lot of short-term benefit.
The one thing I will say as I've come to Bemis and started really understanding their structure here they've done a really good job of taking the volatility out of earnings because of resin and when it goes up.
The flip side of that is when it's coming down we're not going to benefit.
I mean I think the actions this company took to take that volatility out is great.
I mean they're beyond -- they really aren't in the business to make money on commodity price movements.
They're in the business of differentiating themselves and creating superior products.
But to your comment you would get some benefit in working capital if resin starts coming down I don't see those type of numbers in the P&amp;L.
Our next question comes from Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick follow-up on CapEx.
You ran $135 million $140 million in CapEx for a number of years.
And I was just wondering what you consider maintenance CapEx without the PSM business to be.
And Bill as you look at the 60-plus plants in the Bemis system as you took over as CEO are there any assets that you feel so [ph] were undercapitalized or can you give any thoughts there? Yes.
If you look back over the last couple of years we -- what we spent actual physical cash spent on capital it was basically a 50-50 blend between maintenance environmental health and safety run-the-business kind of capital and capital for growth.
So your $130 million number about $65 million was spent on maintenance and run the business and $65 million was spent for growth.
As we go forward that dynamic is going to shift and we're going to be -- so rather than 50-50 it will be more like 65/35.
65% spent on growth 35% spent on run the business environmental health and safety maintenance kinds of items.
So that's the shift that's taking place in 2014.
65%-plus of our capital went toward growth initiatives and growth projects because we haven't -- we hadn't put the money toward the growth lever on capital now we're doing that.
And that again that is growth for volume growth new products new assets to run new materials as well as productivity improvements to enhance margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay that's helpful.
And then just shifting to the cost side can you talk a little bit about the cost inflation you're expecting outside of resin in 2015? And if there are big moving pieces there like labor that you expect to go up maybe higher than in previous years? I'll take that one.
This is Mike.
When I looked through the kind of the budget assumptions sat down with the HR department and the purchasing group and looked at the various cost areas.
I would say a good number to use is 2% to 3% so call it 2.5% for your non-raw material cost.
Next we'll hear from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Mike one question on the cash flow.
As you mentioned in response to a previous question that you expect Op cash excluding working capital of about $410 million.
Based on the CapEx guidance you're talking about $220-ish million for the year.
Is that do you consider that a normalized number for the company? And what about the $50 million onetime drag that you referenced earlier from $20 million [indiscernible] Well first of all [indiscernible] I think the $400 million $410 million is the right number at the 2015 midpoint EBITDA.
Clearly as this company grows that cash flow will be improving.
But no I -- I mean when I look at the facts that -- based on this year if you take cash taxes and cash interest that's the starting point.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
So there are no one -- you had the $50 million onetime drag in '14 that obviously won't recur and that's reflected in that.
No.
At this point there really is no meaningful onetime items that we can see.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And just two others.
One on -- in terms of the inventory buildup and do you expect that to result in a meaningful boost to sales growth this year? And just more generally what are your sales growth expectations this year on a constant currency basis? What we said earlier was 2% in U.S.
Packaging and 4% in global and that inventory some of that inventory build that occurred in late 2014 is focused right at that target being able to hit those targets through trial scale-up commercialization of new products.
And to further answer if there is no new products developed throughout '15 yes you would expect that inventory to come down.
But I -- we've got a lot of meaningful projects in process that quite honestly could potentially we could have the same situation as we look at the end of 2015.
But I will tell you the one thing we're going to look at differently is how we #1 build commercialization inventory for commercialization.
And #2 if we're doing it it's going to we're going to clearly have more transparency with you to let you know what we're outlooking as we go out throughout the year.
Next we'll hear from Al Kabili with Macquarie.
I guess the first question I wanted to just clarify Bill on the volume outlook.
The 2% in the U.S.
is quite a bit greater than what Bemis has been able to deliver in quite a while.
And I was wondering what gives you the kind of increased confidence this year? Is it more of a call on just the underlying end markets improving after several sluggish years? Or do you also see the new product pipeline that you've got out there also kind of at a greater level than what you've seen in the past or a combination of both? And in the context of also some of the leakage from the less differentiated products the same sort of what stops that trend from continuing into '15? It's a good question Al.
And where we -- what we look at is really where did we come through 2014 as we got toward the end of the year? We had -- we didn't have a lot of trials we had a lot of startup of new types of structures for new products and some of them are now commercial they're in the marketplace and they're ramping up.
So if you look back over time maybe we weren't that robust with some of the real live on the deck plates products that are going to be in the market that customers have accepted.
And looking at the end of '14 into '15 there's real tangible products in U.S.
Packaging that are entering the market now.
And customers they're feeling a little bit better with the lower gasoline prices that are out there and they're -- customers like the large CPGs in the United States are looking at okay how do I re-energize some of my brands? What can I do to get brands into different formats? And for some of these large customers we're one of their very go-to type packaging companies to help them come up with new designs and new features.
So I look at that and say gosh we're in a great position versus years gone by where brands weren't trying to be re-energized or reinvigorated.
So some of our large customers are bringing out some new formats for -- so they can drive their brands and get some growth in the market that they haven't had until the past few years and we're in a good position to help them.
And we've gotten products in their hands throughout the second half of 2014 that will become commercialized in 2015.
So I feel good about that.
The team in U.S.
Packaging feels really good about that both on -- in dairy liquid meat cheese protein snacking on-the-go all these types of smaller formats are entering the market.
And we're in a great position to support them.
We have products we have awards and we've got new things entering the market.
So going out of '14 I feel very confident about '15's volume.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And along those lines going into '15 and maybe this also relates to maybe the inventory situation at year-end that surprised you.
Are you seeing any destocking on the part of customers in anticipation of lower resin prices maybe creating some volume headwinds in the near term in destocking? Is that -- was that a factor in some of the inventory situation at the end of the year that you mentioned with working capital and kind of what you're seeing as early days of 15? No.
We did not see that.
At least I did not see that I don't think any of our business team saw that either.
What we're seeing is good orders flow good orders rates going into the year which is nice.
It's comforting.
Next we'll hear from Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So my first question is for Bill.
Obviously there's been a lot of leadership changes at Bemis over the last year.
And I'm just wondering with the addition of Mike now do you feel you have the management team in place to kind of put your strategic vision going forward on your transformational changes to Bemis? Absolutely.
I feel really good about the leadership team that's in place at Bemis.
And not just here in the United States but all around the world.
We've got a great leadership team everybody's on the same page.
We're all aligned.
They know what not to do which is very important and they're focused on what we should be doing and how we're working closer and closer with customers to be their packaging company of choice and that's our vision.
Our vision is to really get wrapped around customers and be passionate about our customers' success and in turn we will succeed.
And the whole team the whole global team is on that page.
Research Division</strong> And my second question is for Mike.
It's really I -- my line got cut off I'm not sure if I could have [ph] these issues but when you were talking about trends in meat and cheese specifically the lower cheese prices and the potential impact there can you just repeat and clarify what you had said earlier? Yes.
What I said earlier was our volumes in 2014 decreased mixed single digits in the cheese category and that was really kind of driven by higher cheese prices.
And what we're seeing now as we come into '15 is cheese pricing is declining coming down so we would anticipate we'd see kind of a pickup back in our packaging for cheese.
Our next question comes from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 follow ups here.
First on resin.
Can you talk about any unrecovered cost increases you might have had in 2015 (sic) [ 2014 ] around resin increasing and prices not keeping up with resin inflation? No Scott we didn't see that.
I think your comment was in 2014 and as I had mentioned that the company's done a really good job of minimizing the volatility of price moves.
Research Division</strong> Right.
No I was just asking a lot of curiosity on the subject and so I figured a look back would be more telling of the strategy than a look forward on resin and your ability to pass that through so that's why I was asking the question.
Then Bill just -- the last question is on compensation.
You noted the change to ROIC and ROS and I just was hoping you could maybe frame that a little bit for us versus compensation structure before? You bet.
2015 the global leadership team is their incentive compensation package is 50% based on return on invested capital 50% based on return on sales.
And in the past it was a couple of items one of which was earnings per share and operating profit safety those kinds of things.
But we're getting the leadership teams around the world focused on return on invested capital making decisions based on return on invested capital and return on sales.
We've marched down this road this is the road we're on we changed the compensation plans to align with where we need to go and what we want to push on and everybody's behind it.
Next we'll take a follow-up question from Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Yes.
I wanted to touch base on 2 things briefly.
One is the share repurchase activity in 2014 was much more active than we've seen in recent years from Bemis and I wonder whether we should take that as a kind of change in direction in terms of use of cash going forward? And then also I wondered if you could talk about the timeframe to getting the global business to those double-digit margins.
I'll take the first part of that question.
I think if you really look at our share repurchases and then considering we had some cash from disposing of 2 businesses during the year it was really just driven by keeping in line with our 2x leverage.
And we will continue the same kind of strategy at 2x levered.
And if we have excess cash and we don't have a strategic acquisition to make we would clearly repurchase shares.
OK and then the global margins? [indiscernible] Right the other part of your question was global margins.
What we've said in the journey that the global team is on is that 10%-plus in 3 to 5 years.
And they worked very hard this past year and a half to put themselves in the position to do that.
And we're really excited about what they've got going on as we go through 2015 and beyond.
So 3 to 5 years 10%-plus and they're well on their way to do that.
Next we'll hear from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> First question of 2 is around investment.
So if we look at your guidance on capital spending what would be the factors if you could call them out that would drive CapEx to the higher end of your range? Is it really more product and market growth-driven or is there any swag factor that you've built in just for FX? And then you mentioned that you're investing relative to confectionery snack and dry.
And it sounded like it was to combat what is a more competitive market there.
I just wanted to confirm that and if so hear what you're doing there and then I had a follow-on.
Sure.
The -- if you look at our dairy and liquid categories there's a lot of growth in the conversion of from rigid formats glass can to flexibles.
There are some unique assets some unique materials that we use to do that to drive that and differentiate ourselves.
That kind of asset we're going to be investing in that type of asset we'll be investing in so.
And they're not like just off-the-shelf.
There's some unique things that we build into that equipment that causes the price to be a little bit higher.
If you look -- the other part of that question George was around dry food snack confection those things.
We've got some aging equipment that we've had and we're going to be reinvesting in some of that aging equipment.
It's not just focused on dry snacks and other and dry snacks and confection and candy.
And it can be used for other kinds of operations as well.
But it allows us to drive nice gains in productivity and margin enhancements when we do that.
So I'm going to go back to our -- to what our hurdle rate is for when we look at investments.
And what we've always what we've been looking at for the past 18 months or so is a 5-year average 15% return on invested capital.
So if the business teams come in with a project that has a 5-year average of 8% well they don't bother coming in with those because the hurdle rate is 15% return on invested capital 5 years.
So if we have that kind of project to invest in we're going to invest in that to drive our ROIC up.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Appreciate the color there.
And then my other question is a little bit bigger picture.
Covering Bemis over the years it's never been a company that hasn't been lacking new products.
There'd be stick packs there were ice films there were 7-layer films.
But the marketing of those products at least from my vantage point tend to be very one-off.
It wasn't done perhaps as comprehensively maybe not done as much from an end market standpoint as should have been the case.
Now that's my opinion you may disagree with that.
And if you do please lay that out.
If you agree somewhat with the premise what are you doing differently going forward to market the suite of products that Bemis has to offer more effectively? What incentives are you putting around that? And what are the risks in trying to do that? George it's Bill.
I'll take that one.
If you look at what we've done with U.S.
Packaging and the way that we're structured now in U.S.
Packaging we're structured around what you just described.
Those end market categories.
And in the past we may not have been structured that way.
So it was more of a one-off sell to a to customer X.
And customer Y never found out about it because it was just a one-off sale.
But if you look at the way we're structured now around market categories meat dairy liquid meat cheese dairy liquid grocery.
It gives us it gives that business team the opportunity to do just what you described.
How do I take it across -- how do I take this structure call it stick pack across the market category versus just to one end customer? So we're trying to get that leverage not just in U.S.
Packaging but now with the global leadership team we have in place we try to take those opportunities for structures like a stick pack like liquid like a canned glass conversion into flexibles to the other global team in Europe in South America and in Asia Pacific so we've got a much better connected organization that is trying to do what you're describing George in leveraging the scale the technology and the scope of Bemis's advantage and differentiation to not just one customer but to the category with which the customers reside.
And that's where we're headed.
We'll take a follow-up question from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Mike one just clarification question on cash flow sorry to ask another question about cash flow.
But the company went into 2014 expecting Op cash of at least $500 million.
It's going into this year expecting Op cash of a little over $400 million.
Obviously you divested pressure sensitive but I don't think that accounted for anything close to $100 million.
So can you just help me bridge kind of where the company was going into last year and where it's going into this year in terms of -- on the Op cash flow side? Well I'm asking myself the same question because I can't bridge it from last year.
Pressure sensitive was about $50 million of cash flow.
I think there was some assumptions made that there was going to be some working capital that was going to be a use and it just didn't get there.
When I look at my simple way when I -- I've said it before if I just take EBITDA less cash taxes and cash interest that's where I get to.
Next we'll hear from Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up for you.
Can you talk about what you think you can do in that productivity in 2015? So productivity that would actually impact at the bottom line of the company? You talked about some issues with just not being as efficient with equipment given new product launches.
And so maybe taking that into account as well what do you think you can do in productivity in 2015? Yes Alex while I don't have it summed for the entire company each region has got very specific targets and goals for waste scrap productivity improvements whether it's speed increases on equipment whether it's throughput increases on equipment.
Every region of the world has got aggressive targets for reductions in waste scrap improvements in quality and increases in speed and throughputs.
So it rolls up into their numbers and I'm -- I just don't have that summed for the company.
We have very specific plans in each of the regions though.
Research Division</strong> Understand Bill.
We have no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to our speakers today for any additional or closing comments.
Thank you operator.
Thank you all for joining us today.
This concludes our conference call.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Please standby.
We’re about to begin.
Good day and welcome to the Bemis Company Hosted First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Erin Winters.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter 2015 conference call.
Today is April 23 2015.
After today’s call a replay will be available on our website bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are Bemis Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer Bill Austen; our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mike Clauer; and our Vice President and Controller Jerry Krempa.
Today Bill will begin with comments on strategy and outlook for 2015.
Mike will then discuss financial performance.
After our comments we’ll answer any questions you have.
However in order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate we do ask that you limit yourself to one question at a time with a related follow-up and then fall back into the queue for any additional question.
At this time I’ll direct you to our website bemis.com under the Investor Relations tab where you’ll find our press release and supplement schedules.
In Mike’s discussion of the financials to specifically be referring to page 5 of the supplemental schedules.
On today’s call we’ll also discuss non-GAAP financial measures as we talk about our performance.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures that we consider most comparable can be found in the press release and supplemental schedules.
And finally a reminder that statements regarding future performance of the company made during this call are forward-looking and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors.
Please refer to Bemis Company’s regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K to review these risk factors.
And now I’ll turn the call over to Bill Austen.
Thank you Erin and good morning everyone.
Today we reported adjusted earnings of $0.61 per share an increase of 17% over the prior first quarter.
I am pleased with the progress we have made toward our long-term performance goals.
In line with our strategy we increased sales to our target end markets in every region of the world including packaging for meat and cheese dairy and liquid and medical device and pharmaceutical applications and we commercialize this new business with operational efficiency.
We delivered our highest gross margins in years driven by strong operational performance across the entire business by our strategy to sell the right value added products.
We increased operating profit margins in our U.S.
packaging business to 13.5% a 110 basis point increase over the prior first quarter an improvement toward our goal of 15% to 18% in this segment.
We increased adjusted operating profit margins in our global packaging segment to 8.8% a 200-basis-point increase over the prior first quarter again reflecting excellent progress toward our goal of double-digit returns in this segment.
We generated $85 million of operating cash flow a vast improvement over prior first quarters and on our way to meeting full-year expectations.
We demonstrated cost discipline as reflected on our flat SG&amp;A spend in line with our expectations.
And finally as planned we executed capacity expansions to support both productivity improvements and the growth of value-added products.
Specifically this quarter several new pieces of equipment came online.
In Europe an e-beam curing unit for our popular shrink films used in meat applications.
In the United States a printing press a 9-layer blown film line and a state-of-the-art laminator all used for a variety of products supporting growth and productivity.
And in Latin America the first seven-layer blown film line in Mexico was commercialized to support growth and sophisticated high-barrier films from media applications.
Our continuous capital allocation process is helping accelerate the pace of future growth and I am excited about the variety of machines coming online during the remainder of 2015.
Everything from extrusion capacity in Asia to support media applications to slitters in the U.S.
to provide additional efficiencies to coating capacity for our global medical device packaging business we’re moving many things in the right direction.
But this quarter wasn’t without its hurdles currency in unit volumes challenged us and we still have opportunities for further operational improvement.
Some color on each of these items.
First currency earnings were dampened this quarter by almost $0.03 from currency translation as the U.S.
dollar strengthened significantly against the Brazilian real and the euro.
Our strong mix of products and operating performance helped us overcome this EPS headwind.
And while we can’t precisely predict how currencies will move throughout the rest of the year we are focusing on cost discipline throughout the entire business to overcome this hurdle during 2015.
Next unit volumes while we increased sales across the globe in our target end markets this quarter including good unit volume increases in Europe Asia and our healthcare packaging business overall unit volumes were dampened by light consumption in the U.S.
and Latin America.
In the U.S.
early data suggests that retail food sales were down a couple percent this quarter.
Coming into 2015 our anticipation was that the overall food environment in the U.S.
would be flat.
We expected to grow above that environment through the introduction of new innovative products.
While we did see our planned growth projects come to fruition this quarter overall unit volumes were dampened by the sluggish environment in the U.S.
and by some customer delays of certain shipments.
I’m still optimistic as capacity comes online and new products continue to commercialize throughout 2015 that will deliver positive year-over-year volume growth.
And I do think we will outperform our end markets.
In Latin America we also delivered on our planned growth projects this quarter including those for the value added meat and cheese and dairy and liquid end markets which positively influenced our margins.
However the continued tough economic environment and lower food production negatively impacted unit volume in the region.
I do anticipate that our continued high barrier product commercializations throughout 2015 will provide margin strength and differentiation.
And finally operational efficiency.
As you may recall in the second half of 2014 we’ve experienced operational inefficiencies in our U.S.
business related to select new product commercializations that burdened profitability.
While we have made progress in resolving a portion of these inefficiencies we expect these items to be fully resolved during the third quarter of this year.
Our business teams have diligently applied lessons learned from last year’s operational challenges to this year’s new product launches and have successfully minimized waste and maximized throughput while achieving commercial scale on our new product launches.
Turning to the full year.
We are confirming our EPS guidance for 2015 in the range of $2.52 to $2.67.
As mentioned at the beginning of the year and earlier in my comments today where we are within the range will depend on the impact of currencies in Latin America volume growth in our target end markets and successful commercialization of new business.
I remain very confident that we will continue to deliver improvement throughout 2015 toward out long-term goals.
As we enter our seasonally strong second quarter customer orders have increased to seasonally high levels.
We are keenly focused on margin and ROIC improvement.
We are accelerating growth with our capacity expansions to support the growing demand for our high-end packaging used in protein liquid medical device and pharmaceutical applications.
We continue to deliver innovation with new product introductions that are on pace and are providing margin improvement across all regions.
We remain intently focused on our customers as when they succeed we succeed.
And we are striving to continuously improve all we do.
In summary I’m pleased with our performance this quarter and look forward to further improvements as we continue executing our strategy.
I’ll now turn the call over to Mike for his comments on the financials.
Thanks Bill and good morning.
As Bill mentioned we reported adjusted earnings of $0.61 per share a 17% increase compared to the prior first quarter.
We delivered solid improvement in gross margins at 20.9% versus 19.3% the prior first quarter.
As I will discuss in detail during the segment review most of this improvement came from improved price mix as we are executing our strategy to sell a higher portion of value-added sophisticated packages.
As expected we also had a small tailwind this quarter from the recent drop in resin prices of just under $3 million.
We see this resin tailwind essentially as a onetime item that will not repeat in the second quarter due to the timing of past dues and recently announced increases in resin prices.
I will provide comments on each reportable segment followed by a discussion on total company expenses and performance.
First U.S.
packaging which represents two-thirds of our revenue.
Following page 5 of the supplemental schedules in the first quarter excluding the impact of the 2014 divestiture of our Paper Packaging division our U.S.
segment delivered organic growth of 0.009% which was driven primarily by price mix.
Overall unit volumes were down approximately 2% compared to the prior first quarter.
Unit volumes in our meat and cheese end markets increased single digits reflecting strong demand for our innovative packaging used in protein snacks and high-barrier shrink applications.
We are pleased with the growth that resulted from our successful commercialization of planned projects.
Throughout the rest of our end markets there are a variety of up and downs but as Bill mentioned overall unit volumes were dampened by the sluggish environment and some customer delays of certain shipments.
Going forward we will continue our strong pricing discipline in competitive end markets such as confection and snack pet foods and various dry foods where technology differentiation is less important and we are selectively improving our competitive position with investments to support these end markets.
While volume is important to us our main focus is increasing the margins in our business.
U.S.
packaging operating profits return on sales for the first quarter was 13.5% compared to 12.4% to prior year.
First quarter returns benefited from the Paper Packaging divestiture the favorable mix of sales of high-technology products such as meat and cheese and continued productivity initiatives.
Now I’ll move to our global packaging segment which represents about a third of our revenue.
In the first quarter global packaging sales decreased 6.6% currency decreased sales by 12.6% as both the currencies in Latin America and Europe have devalued against the dollar.
Excluding currencies global packaging delivered total organic growth of 6% driven by favorable price mix.
Overall unit volumes of global packaging during the first quarter were relatively flat.
Some regional details on volume units in our European Asian and healthcare packaging business were quite strong averaging a 4% increase over the prior year.
In line with our strategy this growth was driven by our targeted end markets meat and cheese in Europe meat and electronics in Asia and medical device packaging across the globe.
Overall units decreased in Latin America offset the other regions of our global packaging segment as a result of the continuing tough economic conditions in the region.
Despite overall units being down in Latin America we did see unit volume growth in meat and cheese and dairy and liquid from a variety of new products in line with our strategy to increase the mix of sophisticated value-added package.
Before we’re doing operating returns in our global segment I will touch on the planned closure of our healthcare packaging facility in Philadelphia.
As background you may recall that while our medical device and pharmaceutical packaging business spans Latin America Europe Asia and the United States the total results of our healthcare business are included in the global packaging segment.
During the first quarter we initiated the planned closure of our healthcare packaging facility in Philadelphia where operations are scheduled to cease by the end of 2015.
As we look to continuously elevate our industry-leading quality in our healthcare packaging business to meet the growing demands of our customers the move of the current business run in Philadelphia to our expanding state-of-the-art healthcare packaging facility in Oshkosh Wisconsin will benefit both our customers and our business.
The capital investment in our healthcare facility in Oshkosh will strengthen our competitive advantage in this risk-averse end market that demands zero defects.
When completed later this year our new healthcare facility will house the largest clean room operation for medical device packaging in North America.
Related to the Philadelphia closure we recorded a $5 million pre-tax charge that was reported as restructuring on the first quarter 2015 income statement.
This charge includes estimated costs related to employee severance and benefit costs to withdraw liability of a multi-employer pension plan and fixed asset-related costs.
We expect the total charge in 2015 to be approximately $8 million with two-thirds of that impacting current-year cash flow.
The future margin benefits of this strategic move were included in our long-term margin targets that we reviewed with you at our March Investor Day.
Our healthcare business remains strong and is an integral part of our growth strategy as we further extend our industry-leading quality.
Turning to the topic of the returns in our Global Packaging segment another very profitable quarter.
Adjusted Global Packaging operating profits return on sales for the first quarter of 8.8% compares with 6.8% for the prior first quarter.
High returns in Global Packaging were a result of improved price mix from the sales of meat and cheese and dairy and liquid end markets and strong operational performances throughout our regions.
Currency negatively impacted operating profit by $3.8 million this quarter related primarily to the translation of profits in Brazil to the U.S.
dollar compared to prior year.
Now on to consolidated Bemis.
Selling general and administrative expense was $106.4 million relatively flat versus the first quarter of 2014.
In light of increases from inflation and pension expense I’m pleased with the disciplined cost controls we have implemented to control SG&amp;A spend and I expect this to continue and improve to help offset currency headwinds throughout the remainder of 2015.
Research and development expense for the first quarter was $11.3 million.
We expect to continue at this level that supports our strategy to accelerate the pace of innovation through the commercialization of new products.
The income tax rate for the first quarter was 33.8% in line with our expectations for the full year.
As compared to prior years the slight decrease is a reflection of the mix of lower tax rates associated with increased profits in the various regions of our global business.
As Bill mentioned cash flow from operations for the quarter totaled $85 million as compared to $12.5 million for prior first quarter.
I am pleased with this improvement considering that our historical first quarter cash flows have been close to zero.
We continue to target 2015 cash from operations in the range of $400 million plus with particular attention that working capital is not a use of cash this year.
Our business teams have a heightened awareness and a keen focus on cash flow specifically in managing inventory levels during new product commercializations and in opportunities to leverage and improve accounts payable terms.
Capital expenditures for the first quarter were approximately $40 million as compared to $33 million in the prior first quarter in line with our expectations.
We continue to expect 2015 capital expenditures between $185 million and $200 million to support growth and productivity projects in the pipeline.
Looking next at return on invested capital.
At March 31 ROIC was 9.9% a solid increase from the 9.4% one year ago.
We continue to target year-over-year improvements in ROIC and our goal is to reach the top quartile of our peer group by 2019.
We’ll do so by continuing on our current path of making sound capital investments and improving overall earnings performance.
Turning to the full-year outlook.
As Bill mentioned we confirm adjusted EPS for 2015 in the range of $2.52 to $2.67.
As we shared with you at the beginning of the year our guidance assumes that foreign currency would remain at January levels throughout the entire year.
Our primary translation risk is Brazil and the reals has moved significantly since the beginning of the year.
If the exchange rate stays where it is today that presents an approximate $8 million headwind for the remainder of the year.
While we can’t predict where currencies will head we are maintaining our guidance range.
In summary I remain confident in our business and in our ability to further improve financial performance and create tremendous shareholder value.
With that we’ll turn the call over for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we’ll take our first question from Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W Baird.
Hi.
Good morning.
This is actually Matt Krueger sitting in for Ghansham.
How are you? Good.
Great.
Can you talk a little bit more about the impact from customer shipment delays in the U.S.
what drove the delays and when do you expect shipments to return to normal? Sure.
Good morning Matt.
This is Bill Austen.
How are you? Good.
While we won’t talk specifically about customer names there was a piece of business that we have that the customer reformulated their drink their liquid from using going to natural sugar.
And that uptick in the market hasn’t taken place yet.
They haven’t quite got the reformulation down so they’re in the process of doing that.
So that delayed some of our shipments to them.
The second one is a piece of business that shifted from one customer is now being picked up by several other customers and they’re in the process of ramping up those sales.
Some of those volumes won’t come back but we anticipate as we go into the second quarter that we will see that liquid business comeback and we will see the other pieces of that business come back as well as it moves to a new customer.
So we anticipate seeing better volumes from both of those in the second quarter.
Great.
Also can you update us on your overall capital allocation strategy and do you expect your share buybacks to keep pace with the first quarter pace that you posted throughout the year? I’ll update you on the capital allocation process.
It continues to move well.
We get periodically new ideas new initiatives coming to the committee that we evaluate good projects are going to get funded.
As Bill – as we’ve mentioned at Investor Day it’s going to be a 15% after tax ROIC over a five-year cycle.
So that process is going well.
I’m not really going to comment on share repurchases this point in time as we are starting to kind of develop our acquisition strategy but again we’ll not say we’re not going to be repurchasing stock either.
And the next question is from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Scott.
Hi Scott.
Hi.
My question was more on the margin improvement year-over-year.
At the Analyst Day when you outlined the longer term margin improvement I think you mentioned 50% innovation 30% productivity and 20% coming from price analytics in the longer run.
It sounds like this quarter maybe the productivity and pricing analytics was really the key driver.
Can you kind of frame that for us and just tell us if that was the case or not? Sure Scott.
Pricing analytics is really just – we’re just in its infancy stages.
So we’re just starting to get traction with that so the improvement in Q1 is really coming from productivity.
We’ve got a little bit from the resin tailwind.
Obviously the paper we no longer have paper cycling on so the paper divestiture and if you look at the 110 basis point improvement that we had in consolidated Bemis about half of it is productivity some from price mix resin tailwind and the paper divestiture.
Okay.
And just following up on that the $3 million resin tailwind that you have in the quarter and you sort of parse that between the international business and the U.S.
Packaging business.
Scott it’s about 50/50.
As you recall the business outs and Global Packaging tends to have a lot fewer contracts.
So you’re going – I think we did a better job of holding on to that for a period of time.
On the U.S.
Packaging piece if you recall about two-thirds is contractual.
And our next question is from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Thanks.
Good morning Bill and Mike.
Hope you’re doing well.
One more on your margins.
So obviously your gross margins were up 160 bps in the quarter and you talked about the resin benefit the productivity et cetera as well as the sale of the paper business.
Can you give us some sense as to what you’re expecting gross margins to be up year-on-year over the balance of the year just given the divestiture of the paper business given your expectations regarding price mix the absence of the resin benefit? Just any sense as to what year-over-year improvements you’re expecting would be helpful.
Yes.
Good morning Adam.
This is Bill.
Yeah.
As we talked in our Investor Day our long-term goals for margins would be in Global Packaging greater than 10% and in U.S.
Packaging 15% to 18%.
We had solid performance in Q1.
We’re on our trend.
We’re on our glide path and we’re going to continue to execute our strategy so that we hit the 15% to 18% and the 10-plus percent in Global in the timeframe that we talked about at the Investor Day.
All right.
Thanks Bill.
And one on volume obviously you previously expected U.S.
Packaging volume to be up 2%.
I think you said it was down 2% on the first quarter.
You also talked about customer orders having increased to seasonally high levels so far in second quarter.
I’m not sure precisely what you mean by that.
But can you update us on what your full-year volume growth expectation for U.S.
packaging is now in light of what happened in the first quarter and what you’re seeing so far in the second? Yes.
Yeah.
Our – when we went into the planning season when we put 2015 plan together we assumed that food volumes in U.S.
would be flat.
But early indications are that food volumes in the U.S.
are down in Q1.
As we go forward we’re going to maintain our view that we will do better than whatever the food volume growth is or not is in the U.S.
going forward.
So we’re – we’ve maintained the factor.
We’re going to be better than what food volume growth is in U.S through the year.
The next question is from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
Good morning gentlemen and congratulations on a strong start to the year.
Thank you Chris.
I had a couple of questions.
A question or follow-up I guess I’ll send it around mainly working capital.
Just help me put this together if you can like I mean if you were down a chunk here year-over-year it looks like about $40 million in working capital.
I know you mentioned you had some resin benefits some help in there too but if your – your old guide I think was about $400 million $410 million something like that for – of cash flow with a kind of neutral working capital environment if memory serves.
If we’ve already kind of running $40 million or so below and perhaps it sounded too like you had some orders that were delayed that maybe even bloated the inventories a little in the short run until that start shipping out so perhaps even better why it’s still flat for the year for working capital? Why can’t you hold this for the balance of the year and maybe perhaps that looks conservative? How would you have us think about that? I would have you think about it that we’ve got a lot of good stuff going on right now as it relates to cash flow.
I see our biggest opportunity is in accounts payable and I’m very encouraged with the actions being taken by the purchasing department to improve our payment terms.
And I’m also very encouraged with what’s going on primarily in U.S.
Packaging as it relates to the inventory management in the U.S.
Chris I think it’s a little premature for me to call it any more than it is but I’m pretty confident that we are focused on working capital not being a use in 2015 and we are definitely putting efforts in place to hopefully make it a source.
Yeah.
That’s helpful.
And then my second related here to cash flow as well was D&amp;A was a chunk lower year-over-year.
What’s your assumption for the full year at current currency levels? I mean is it sort of a reasonable rate to track at or how would you want us to think about that? I think it’s a reasonable assumption.
It might slightly go up as the year progresses with some of these investments we’re making.
We’ll go next to Mark Wilde with Bank of Montreal.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Mark.
I wondered just going back Mike on the working capital when you were out here for the Analyst Day you talked about 400-basis-point to 600-basis-point reduction in kind of working capital sales over time.
What would the timeline on that look like? Well as I said in the Investor Day I mean when we ended 2014 our primary working capital was approximately 20% of revenue.
And we really do feel and have plans in place to drop that down to the 14% to 16% range.
But I believe I may – I said at the Investor Day is we’re putting actions in place to try to that goal by the end of 2016.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then if I could for a follow-on I wondered if either you or Bill could talk a little bit about what you’re seeing in acquisition markets and perhaps along with that what particular areas that you would be targeting for acquisition growth and maybe what geographic preferences you might have? I think as we kind of – we did discuss this also in Investor Day so first of all the market is picking up a lot.
There’s a lot of sponsor-led sales going on but we’re being very selective.
We clearly have defined in as you guys know what we want to own.
And then number two I would tell you that – my preference and I think Bill’s would be too that you’d see more acquisition activity in the Global Packaging side of the business than in U.S.
Packaging.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Your next question is from Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Good morning.
The 3% price mix in U.S.
Packaging was pretty impressive.
How much of that was mix versus pricing? And I guess with resin [indiscernible] is ticking in over the course of the year is that still a good run rate and how much run rate do you ultimately have over the next few years as you ramp up some of these new investments on the mix front? Yeah.
Phil this is Bill.
Yeah.
We don’t split price mix out.
It’s combined.
It was just under 3% price mix in U.S.
Packaging in Q1 this year versus last year.
We’ve got a large – we have a long way to go in this area.
We’ve got good opportunities for investment.
We’ve got good capital coming in to continue to change the mix of the business to continue to bring in the new products as we showed you during the Investor Day with our stage-gate process and those projects that were in the late-stage development and commercialization are all new technologies are all in new markets and are all at the high end of the sophistication curve.
So we think we have ways to go yet.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And I guess your reiterate your full year guidance.
But are you assuming current FX rates and what’s your assumption now on volumes? This is Mike.
First of all we did – we have assumed that we’re going to take the current reals headwind on as part of our guidance.
And as Bill mentioned from a volume perspective it’s hard for us – let me put it this way.
I feel really good about the fact that volumes were down and we were able to print a pretty strong growth number.
Does that help? Our next question is from Usha Guntupalli with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
How are you? We’re good.
Thank you.
Great.
Following up on your EPS guidance for the full year so looks like volumes had a slower start and you talked about FX headwinds and also potential resin hike.
But in spite of that you’re maintaining your guidance.
So where do we – where do you expect more offset? Would it be mostly from your pricing focus or more from operational execution? I think it’s – this is Mike.
It’s going to be coming more from operational improvements.
The discretionary spending we’re really taking a hard look at it and then just other SG&amp;A cost categories a lot more disciplined and rigor in how we’re spending our money.
And does your guidance also include further consolidations similar to the medical packaging such that you closed in the quarter? Yes it does.
Would you be...
Hello? We may have lost that question.
But we can bring it back in a bit.
Operator is there another question? Our next question is from James Armstrong with Vertical Research Partners.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
My first question is in Global Packaging you said the price mix improvement was 6% which is by amount about $21 million.
However the operating income increased by only about $9 million even with resin falling a bit.
Were there other cost increases or was the $21 million mostly due to price mix? Could you elaborate on that? Yes.
In Global Packaging where we’re seeing that come through is we are rolling out our technologies from the developed world into the emerging economies where we are moving the sophistication level of packaging up.
So it carries a higher level of technology i.e.
a higher level of price.
Okay.
That helps.
And then switching gears as Bemis focus is more on value-added products is there any way to decouple pricing from resins or other costs and do you think that would be a good long-term strategy? Not really clear on your question.
Yeah not sure.
What I’m really getting at is there any way to structure the contracts so that the resin’s pass-through at a faster rate? Yeah.
We do that now and we’re constantly reviewing our PAS and our pass-through calculations and the formulas we use to pass that along.
And we have been working diligently over the last few years to shorten up that time between increase and pass-through.
The next question is from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for all the details.
I guess the first question I have for you can you comment at all as to whether Bemis’s new focus on pricing and mix and return is leading to any share loss that you wouldn’t want in any of your markets? Clearly in this kind of exercise you’re always looking at the tell.
Some products that don’t make your return thresholds will ultimately – your customers for that matter – will ultimately be cut off.
But is there any unintended share loss that you’re seeing and if so could you comment to that? And if it’s not happening why do you think you’ve been able to maintain share while you’re driving price and margins up? George this is Bill.
Good morning Bill.
You know the charts we use to explain our mix of products to investors and we have been moving over the last few years and we continue to do that this year to the higher-margin higher-barrier content types of packaging.
We haven’t seen share loss in that area.
We’ve been growing gains.
We’ve been gaining in that area.
And yes there might on the right-hand side of that curve in the towel and tissue overwraps the confectionaries where we are driving price hard to increase price mix.
We may be losing some share there.
Absolutely.
But the model is put together today to drive high margin high sophistication level high barrier packaging and we’re – we don’t see share loss there.
We may be seeing it at the low end of the spectrum but we’re pushing on price there to increase margins.
Okay.
The second question I have and thank you for your commentary there I just wanted to try to and maybe not be too pedantic flesh out what your volume expectation is for U.S.
Packaging this year kind of piggyback on Adam’s question.
So recognizing that you want to do better than the market which is great and we’d like to see that too given what you see right now realizing there are no guarantees in life what do you think your volume growth could look like this year given what’s been a weaker start to the first quarter and how much is standup pouches in that growth as well if I can throw in a follow-on? Thanks.
Yeah.
George we’re not going to put a number on it.
What we’re going to maintain is that we feel we’re going to grow better than food volumes.
And if you look at our target markets of meat cheese dairy we are doing a nice job.
Our team in the U.S.
is doing a nice job there growing volume growth as well as in healthcare packaging not just in the U.S.
but globally and we’re going continue to push on that.
Pouches.
And on the standup pouch side if your remember back to the Investor Day there was a late-stage commercialization coming on line for next-gen standup pouch.
That is coming on stream.
We’re seeing standup pouch coming on stream with our new seven-layer capacity in Mexico that will be coming on later this year.
And we’re also driving more standup pouch growth for liquids based on the multilayer lines we put into Brazil in that part of the world as well.
So we feel good about standup pouch volumes.
Our next question is from Al Kabili with Macquarie Capital.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I guess Bill just piggybacking on George’s and some of the other volume questions the contributions from the new products and the growth you saw from that in 1Q is that a good run rate for how you’re thinking for the next of the year – for the rest of the year or might you see even more greater contribution from new products in terms of growth the remainder of the year? Could you still have some areas that you’re ramping up? Yes Al.
It’s a good question.
If you go back to our Investor Day we talked about our product vitality of being 15% sales in the current year from products that have been commercialized over the past three years.
That’s not a metric that we’re going to look at every quarter.
It’s a metric we’re going to look at twice a year start of the year midyear and we’re at the 15% level for our product vitality.
We’ve got a lot of projects coming on stream Q2 Q3 Q4 that are in late-stage commercialization right now.
So they’re being qualified by our customers.
We feel very confident.
We feel good about the pipeline that’s there and we feel good about the products that are coming on stream.
So we’ve got a nice flow of new things coming on throughout 2015.
Okay.
Thanks Bill.
I appreciate the color there.
And then I guess to switch gears to Mike on I guess on just some of the mechanics on the resin the $3 million benefit we had this quarter.
Just given FIFO inventory accounting and I realized there’s been some resin price hike announcements.
But given FIFO inventory accounting shouldn’t we see some resin tailwind in the second quarter and perhaps even higher than that $3 million in the first or just kind of help us with how we should think about the mechanics there? Thanks.
Al I think – I used to think about the mechanic’s in search of price increase that’s been announced and so I’m looking at the fact that I don’t see anything really coming in the second quarter to the benefit side.
We’ll go next to Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Debbie.
I was wondering the typical planning timeline for your new product commercialization I think my understanding is about a year or so so I imagine you have some visibility into 2016.
So I’m just wondering if you could comment on kind of pipeline for Bemis and how you might think it will roll through.
Yeah.
This is Bill Debbie.
Our product innovation pipeline is actually greater than a year.
We start to develop things and show them to customers and roll them out to customers well in advance of a year because some of these things have longer gestation periods particularly if you talk about healthcare pharmaceutical medical device packaging some of those have three to five-year gestation period so we’ve got a long pipeline if you will in several of our business segments particularly in the healthcare sector.
I’m just kind of trying to characterize maybe 2015 versus 2016.
I don’t have a feel for how many projects are coming on stream in the variance between 2015 and 2016.
I’m sorry.
Okay.
And another question is also maybe a little difficult to answer but if I kind of think back about Bemis and to be fair a number of plastic packaging companies over the years your customers don’t always seem to get the timing and the demand trajectory right which ultimately has a pretty significant impact on your business and I guess the things like take or pay really wouldn’t be an option for you but is there anything that you think Bemis could do better to kind of understand the customer and the timing and the risk reward associated with taking on these projects? Well yes and we put a process as we explained at Investor Day our stage-gate process that includes the customer.
And we talk with the customer we bring them into that process and they’re part of that gating that we go through.
So if we get to a point early on where the customer is not real warm and not real high on the project we’ll kill it then so we’re not expending resource on a project that isn’t going to go forward.
Our next question is from Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Good morning.
Just a follow-up on organic growth in Global Packaging.
I think you referenced some headwinds in Latin America.
And given that that’s half of the business I was wondering if it was possible to kind of further quantify the organic growth that you saw in LatAm versus the other three businesses in the segment.
Sure.
They basically offset Anthony.
Latin America was down 4% and the rest of global Asia healthcare and Europe was up 4%.
Okay.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And overall global packaging organic growth was up 6%? Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
And then at the Analyst Day last month you outlined your long-term targets and some of the ways that you’re going to operate the business really fundamentally differently.
And I was wondering on the financial side as Mike settles into the role is it possible you might take kind of a fundamental relook at your historical leverage targets Bemis’ historic emphasis on dividends over repurchases or how we should think about that side of – that side of the business and that side of the transformation.
This is Mike.
I can answer that.
You can expect us to take look at things differently.
I’ve spent a lot of time over last couple of months understanding why we are who we are great balance sheet definitely appreciate having a great balance sheet strong.
But I also understand as does Bill that we haven’t used it effectively.
And that is going to change going forward right at the moment.
We’re finalizing our acquisition kind of strategy process and I’d rather start looking there first before I look at other ways to lever up and my cash.
The next question is from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Thanks for taking my follow-up Bill.
I appreciate it.
Just two of them one was the quarter about in line with your initial expectations given that FX and volume were bigger drags than you expected but that resin was a bigger benefit than you expected? Adam to put it quickly I think our team’s performed really well.
They performed slightly better than my expectations than what we had planned for Q1.
Thanks Bill.
And one on meat and cheese have there been any changes or are you anticipating any changes in meat and cheese prices based on bird flu et cetera that could be consequential for your business later in the year? I don’t necessarily see the bird flu as a big consequence to us.
We have a smaller position if you will in turkey.
So I don’t see that as a big drag.
If protein prices do come down which people indicate they might that could be a benefit for us.
But at this point I couldn’t say.
And we have a follow-up question from Mark Wilde with Bank of Montreal.
Yeah.
I just wanted to come back on the rollout of the new products.
I think some of those rollouts were due down in Brazil and I’m just curious what you have said about Brazil and Latin America.
Was there any change in the timing on those? No Mark.
We’re still very confident and we saw very good new product traction in Latin America particularly as we talked about that sophistication level.
And if you recall the Peel Reseal package for Sadia that is now being picked up by the other protein companies down in Latin America.
So we’re seeing nice pickup there.
We’ve got nice pickup in a new pharma cold-form foil product for pharmaceutical companies down there.
We’ve got new product in foil lidding that’s out into Brazil this quarter Q2.
Greek yogurt is now being rolled out into the Brazilian market so we’re picking up Greek yogurt cups in Brazil.
So we’re seeing some nice rollouts in Brazil.
Okay.
And Bill the other question I have can you just help us think about the sort of the phase-in from this big new healthcare and medical device facility in Oshkosh? It sounds like it’s not going to come on line until some point in the second half.
I don’t know whether you then have to go through any qualifications coming out of there.
You talked about a longer-than-normal timeline on new product for healthcare and medical.
So just help us think about sort of size and ramp-up of that facility if you could.
Yeah.
Our healthcare group is doing an outstanding job with the transition from Philly to Oshkosh.
Keep in mind we have to qualify the new – there’s a new coder going into Oshkosh and that coder then has to be qualified on all the existing product lines.
They’ve got a plan in place.
They’ve got customers on board.
They’re working through it very very well.
And the Philadelphia facility will close at the end of 2015.
We will be qualified on the new machine by the end of 2015.
So new product will be in the marketplace 2016 out of the healthcare facility in Oshkosh which as Mike said in his comments is the largest clean room converting facility for healthcare medical device packaging in North America.
We’re going to see nice improvements in profit in that business due to this facility.
It has a very nice return on invested capital and it drives productivity.
It drives higher quality which is what the healthcare industry wants from their suppliers.
And we’ll continue to lead healthcare with very high quality better service better margins all year round.
We’ll go next to Fred Searby with Dunbar.
Hi.
Yeah.
Thank you for taking the question.
A couple of quick questions.
So we’ve had a bit of a rally in the real and I’m just wondering first of all when you say that you’re using current FX I mean were you using more or less 3 is what you baked in where real is now? And then secondly Dixie Toga in Brazil you guys seemed to have gotten through some of the gusting headwinds we have there economically and is there any signs of a turn sort of second derivative with volumes maybe in April starting to bottom out a little bit and a deceleration and the downturn? And then finally cash flow was for the first quarter at least seasonally exceptional and yet you seem to be maintaining your guidance of I think it translates to $200 million to $250 million in free cash flow.
I’m just trying whether you’re being conservative because it caught me at least by surprise how strong your free cash flow was some of that was maybe something is a one-off with resins but can you just help me think about whether you’re being conservative or there’s some upside here on the free cash flow side? This is Bill Austen.
I’ll take the real question.
Our original plan is 260 and for current forecast that we’ve gone forward with the remainder of the year is BRL 3 to the dollar.
That’s how we’re looking at the rest of 2015.
And I can’t say that it’s bottomed out.
I can’t say the economy is bottomed out.
I have no indications to whether that’s true or not but we are conservatively looking at the rest of the year on how we’re going to drive the business in Brazil.
Team is doing a great job we’re focused on cost focused on driving new products out into the market but we’re using BRL 3 to the dollar.
And I’ll comment on cash flow.
As I mentioned earlier we did play out a stated goal that we’re going to try to upgrade this company 14% to 16% primary working capital as a percentage of revenue.
Comment on my conservative on my 2015 guidance I don’t think I’m conservative.
I think some of our initiatives that we put in place to improve payable terms and to lower inventories just going to take some time.
And Chris a general comment our Q1 performance on free cash flow was very much in line with our internal plan and expectation.
So we’re right on track to getting to that $400 million plus.
And then finally just a question obviously – I’d be remised if what’s happened with Kraft and Heinz.
I mean are you thinking that given that there’s ongoing consolidation in Europe your end users your main clients that that speeds up the impetus or just going to catalyze some consolidation.
There’s been talk amongst you guys and it – you feel more of a pressure obviously get bigger and offset some of that.
We’ve seen consolidation in this industry for our customers that is.
We’ve seen consolidation amongst our customers over the years.
We’ve dealt with this before.
We’ll continue to deal with going forward with the introduction of newer technologies higher sophistication levels of packaging bringing what we add to the party to those larger customers to get a bigger share of their wallet.
So we’re not – we’ll manage through it like we always have in the past and we’ll continue to bring innovation and technology to those larger CPG companies.
And we have a follow-up from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks.
Just a question in terms of Oshkosh and Philly.
Recognizing you fully intend to be able to be able to flip the switch by the end of the year if you were in our seats what one-mile or two-mile markers over the next two quarters to three quarters would you be checking on to make sure that actually will happen without any issue? George this is Bill.
Hey Bill.
Mike and I would meet with the healthcare team twice a month to review their project plan.
Are they on track? Are they not on track? If they are not on track what are they doing? They’re hitting all their milestones.
The next milestone is going to be that coater getting installed and coming up on time and on technology.
So that’s the next milestone.
They’re well on their way to hit that.
They’ve met all their milestones thus far.
So really confident with how it’s going.
And we’ll report out where we are at the next earnings call.
Just related point to that Bill when does the core go in to place that you say.
And then the second question I had more broadly are there any end markets where you’re seeing a significant shift either to multiple layer extrusion from coat and laminated or vice versa.
And if so what are kind of the implications behind that? Thanks and good luck on the quarter.
Thanks George.
The first part of that question on the healthcare [indiscernible] it’s there now being uncreated and installed and being bolted down to the foundations.
So it’s well on its way.
The other piece are what are we seeing.
We’re seeing nice movements in liquid and to co-extrusions.
We’re seeing – we have technologies in other areas of retort and others where we would look to use co-extrusions.
So we’re pushing on those things.
Our technology guys are pushing on those things and you’re going to see more of that in the future.
And there’s a follow-up from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
Good morning again.
Just kind of two quick ones here one to kind of come back to the Kraft Heinz sort of stuff going on.
When Kraft split into the two pieces there was quite a bit of disruption that took place and we’ve already kind of couple examples through the channels sort of some projects being delayed and stuffs being looked at in particular within Oscar Mayer or some of alerting and to be prepared for disruption.
Have you seen any projects thus far that have been either delayed or have you seen any signs of potential disruption or how do you think about what that might do to your volumes in the near term until everything’s kind of settle? Yeah but Chris right now I haven’t seen any delays in any of the projects that our teams are working on.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then second follow-up as you talked about volumes in April already picking back up I know there’s an element of seasonality there.
But as you sit today you’re already seeing volumes back to what you had anticipated a couple of points for the year or are we still kind of in a flattish mode or how would we – maybe if you can give a perspective of what you were [indiscernible] sort of pick up? Yes Chris.
My comment was that second and third quarter are seasonally high quarters for us and our order rate maintains that seasonally high level.
So we’re seeing our normally high second third quarter order rates or shipments picking up now.
Okay.
So you’re seeing seasonality but not necessarily a pickup or acceleration to a couple points yet? I don’t think we want to comment on that at this point.
We’re at our expectation.
And we’ll take a follow-up from Al Kabili with Macquarie Capital.
Hi.
Thanks.
Bill just on the last quarter you had some of those operational disruptions from the new products and I was wondering if you still are seeing any spillover of that in the first quarter that gets sequentially better as we look at 2Q.
Are you feeling good on operationally throughout 1Q in that regard? Thanks.
Yes Al.
The specific comment was related to the third quarter 2014 issue we had with the commercialization of a new high technology product.
Teams have been working through that to bring it back to where the anticipated levels of waste and throughput would be and we expect to be fully at our recovered rate at our planned rate by the end of third quarter of 2015 and we saw improvement in Q1.
We’ll see more improvement in that in Q2 and we’ll be back on track with plan in Q3.
Okay.
And this is a follow-on to that.
Any sense for size of headwind? Is it a couple million dollars in extra costs in Q1 or either you or Mike in terms of just helping us size that up so that when we’re at that full operational level in 3Q the sort of uptick we get there? Thanks.
Yeah.
Those improvement has been built into our forecast and if you recall back in the third quarter of 2014 it was a 50-basis-point issue that we had.
We’ve worked ourselves about halfway through it at this point.
And it appears there are no further questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the conference back to today’s speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
Thank you all for joining us today.
This concludes our conference call.
This concludes today’s call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Bemis Company Hosted Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I’d like to turn the conference over to Erin Winters.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter 2015 conference call.
Today is July 23 2015.
After today’s call a replay will be available on our website bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are Bemis Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer Bill Austen; our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mike Clauer; and our Vice President and Controller Jerry Krempa.
Following Bill and Mike’s comments on our business and outlook we’ll answer any questions you have.
However in order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate we do ask that you limit yourself to one question at a time with a related follow-up and then fall back into the queue for any additional questions.
On today’s call we will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures as we talk about our performance.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures that we consider most comparable can be found in our press release and supplemental schedules on our website.
And finally a reminder that statements regarding future performance of the company made during this call are forward-looking and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors.
Please refer to Bemis Company’s regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K to review these risk factors.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Bill Austen.
Thank you Erin and good morning everyone.
I am very pleased with how our business teams are performing and executing the three tenants of our long-term strategy that we laid out at Investor Day earlier this year.
We are executing with focus alignment and accountability and rigor as reflected in our strong operating results this quarter.
We delivered our highest gross margins in years driven by our strategy to sell the right value-added products and by strong operational performance across our entire business.
We increased operating profit margins in our U.S.
Packaging business to 14.8% a 90 basis point increase over prior second quarter reflecting good progress toward our goal of 15% to 18% in this segment.
We increased adjusted operating profit margins in our Global Packaging segment to 8.1% another 90 basis point increase over the prior second quarter and great improvement toward our goal of double-digit returns in this segment.
We generated $133 million of operating cash flow another quarter of vast improvement over prior year and on our way to meeting full-year expectations.
We continue to demonstrate cost discipline as reflected by our flat SG&amp;A spend and finally we executed our capital expansions and improvements as planned.
We are excelling at most items within our business plan and I’m pleased with this progress.
Next I’ll turn the call over to Mike to walk through the financials and share his comments on the business and then I’ll come back in a bit with my forward-looking thoughts.
Mike? Thanks Bill and good morning.
I will start my discussion today with the consolidated Bemis results then move to comments on each reportable segment and finish with full-year outlook.
This morning we reported earnings of $0.67 per share for the second quarter an increase of 11.7% over the prior-year.
This includes overcoming currency translation headwind of approximately $0.03 in the quarter.
We delivered strong improvement in gross margins at 21.5% versus 20% the prior second quarter.
This improvement was driven by continued efforts in driving our strategy specifically price mix operational efficiencies and diligent cost controls contributed to our improvement partially offset by the impact of currency and volume.
Total Bemis Company SG&amp;A expense was $103.9 million relatively flat with $104.4 million the prior second quarter.
In light of increases from inflation and pension expense we are controlling costs and I expect this to continue out throughout the remainder of the year.
Research and development expense for the quarter was $11.5 million.
We expect to continue around this level as it supports our strategy to accelerate the pace of innovation through the commercialization of new products.
The income tax rate for the second quarter was 33.5% flat as compared to the prior second quarter.
I expect the full-year 2015 income tax rate to be slightly less than 34%.
Cash flow from operations for the first half of 2015 totaled $219 million compared to $70 million last year.
Specifically the second quarter this year delivered a $133 million of operating cash flow as compared to $58 million in the prior second quarter.
I am pleased with our continued progress on cash flow.
We are managing working capital well.
Specifically this year we have lowered inventories and increased payables by expanding terms with our vendors.
We continue to target 2015 cash from ops in the range of $400 million plus.
For the full-year I continue to expect that working capital will not be a use of cash.
I am pleased with the urgency and attention our business teams have placed on cash flow.
We will continue with the keen focus on cash flow to reach and maintain our goal of primary working capital at 14% to 16% of revenue.
Quickly touching on our leverage metric.
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA at the end of the second quarter was 2.2 times.
I expect us to continue to generate strong cash flow invest capital wisely and not accumulate cash.
Our priorities continue to be to support our dividend program invest in capital projects fund strategic acquisitions or repurchase shares.
During the second quarter we repurchased 1 million shares for a total of $45.9 million.
At June 30 the remaining Board authorization for share repurchase was 4.9 million shares.
Capital expenditures for the first half of the year were approximately $96 million as compared to $69 million the prior year and in line with our expectations.
Looking next at return on invested capital at June 30 ROIC was 10% a nice increase from the 9.5% one year ago.
We continue to target year-over-year improvement in ROIC and our goal is to reach the top quartile of our peer group over the next three to five years.
We will do so by continuing on our current path of making sound capital investments and improving overall earnings performance.
Next the results of the segments.
First U.S.
Packaging which represents about two-thirds of our total business.
In the second quarter our U.S.
segment saw organic sales decline of 4.3% driven by overall unit volumes which were down 5% and partially offset by favorable price mix.
With regard to unit volumes two items contribute to the decline when comparing to the prior second quarter.
First the impact of our strategic pricing’s discipline second the loss of volume due to some of our customers losing share.
With regard to the impact of our strategic pricing discipline we continue to hold strong on our strategy.
While we target to grow sales of our high technology value-added products we aim to hold volumes flat in the lower technology products we sell.
However in these lower technology product lines we have minimum margin requirements and when those minimums are not met by certain customers we choose not to retain the business.
Comparing this quarter last year these strategic pricing decisions accounted for about two-thirds of the unit volume decline in the U.S.
We will continue to be strong pricers in all end markets.
Also as we have previously discussed we are making select capital investments to improve the margin profile in specific areas of our business where technology and differentiation are not important to customers.
These capital investments will improve productivity and efficiency and will benefit our margin profile.
With regard to the loss volume due to certain customers losing share these specific customer of ours has seen light demand in the marketplace for their products after they took a strong stance on pricing at the retail and called down their package demand throughout the end of the year.
This particular case accounted for approximately 1% of the overall unit decline in U.S.
Packaging.
While unit volumes were a challenge in most end markets of our U.S.
business this quarter the favorable margin impact of price mix strongly prevailed during the quarter.
In our target growth end markets meat and cheese dairy and liquid our overall units were down low-single digits mix within each of these categories was quite favorable to the bottom line.
The new products we are commercializing such as protein snack packs and flat shrink film are substantially accretive to margins consistent with our strategy.
Another item to keep in mind contractual price decreases to pass-through raw material changes were enacted during the quarter did not impact operating profit.
That leaves remaining a sizeable mix benefit that is reflected in the bottom line.
In summary our strategy to improve the mix of products we sell was quite successful during the quarter and we will continue with that mindset over the long-term.
In a few minutes Bill will discuss some actions to address the changing environment in the U.S.
over the next few years.
While organic volume is important to us our main focus is increasing margins in our business.
U.S.
Packaging operating profit return on sales for the second quarter was 14.8% compared to 13.9% the prior year.
Second quarter returns benefited from the favorable sales mix I discussed earlier operational efficiencies and diligent cost controls.
With regard to our cost controls I am pleased with our recent initiatives to uncover every opportunity.
For example we drove reductions in freight utilities and MRO spend during the quarter.
We will continue with an urgent mindset in all areas of our business.
Now I’ll move to the results in our Global Packaging Segment which represents about a third of our business.
In the second quarter Global Packaging sales increased 9.7%.
Currency decreased sales by 15.9% as currencies in Latin America and Europe have devalued against the dollar.
Excluding currency Global Packaging delivered organic growth of 6.1% driven by unit volume growth of 5% in addition to favorable price mix.
Some regional details on volumes.
Units in our small yet growing business in Asia-Pacific were quite strong providing double-digit increases over the prior year.
The growth was in a variety of areas including meat which is one of our targeted growth end markets in Asia.
Units in our Europe business were up low-single digits again in line with our strategy to increase sales of meat and cheese packaging.
Overall units decreased low-single digits in our Latin America business as a result of the continued tough economic conditions in the region.
Despite overall unit volume growth in meat and cheese and dairy and liquid from a variety of new products in line with our strategy to increase the mix of sophisticated valued-added packaging.
Units in our healthcare business decreased low single digits this quarter which we see simply as a function of timing.
Our healthcare business is strong.
We have strong order backlog as we head into the second half of the year.
Turning to the topic of returns in our Global Packaging segment another very profitable quarter.
Adjusted Global Packaging operating profit return on sales for the second quarter of 8.1% compares with 7.2% for the prior second quarter.
Higher returns in Global Packaging were a result of strong operational performance throughout all our regions and improved price mix from sales of meat cheese dairy and liquid packaging.
Currency negatively impacted operating profits by $4.9 million in this quarter or about $0.03 related primarily to the translation of profits in Brazil to the U.S.
dollars compared to prior year.
Turning to full-year outlook.
As we share with you at the beginning of the year our original guidance assume that foreign currency would remain at January levels throughout the entire year.
Our primary translation risk is that Brazil and the reals has moved significantly since the beginning of the year.
You’ll recall last quarter that we were targeting to offset currency during the remainder of 2015 with cost controls.
While we have implemented actions to control costs during the remainder of 2015 I do not anticipate that we will be able to fully overcome the additional currency headwinds that exist if exchange rates stay where they are today.
We will continue to look for additional ways to benefit our bottom line but this is my current view.
Assuming currency stays where it is the total impact on profits versus our original full-year plan is about 11 million U.S.
dollars or $0.08 of EPS.
Due to these currency headwinds we are narrowing our range for 2015 adjusted EPS to the range of $2.52 to $2.62 as compared to the prior range of $2.52 to $2.67.
Where we are within the range will be depended on unit volumes in our business.
We expect to be at the low-end of the EPS range if U.S.
Packaging unit volumes do not recover to prior-year levels.
We are raising our full-year capital expenditure guidance between $200 million and 215 million as compared to the prior year full guidance of $185 million to $200 million.
This increase reflects the aggressive work of our business teams to improve the timeline of projects in our existing pipeline that will support growth and productivity improvements.
In summary I am satisfied with our progress on operating margins cash from ops and ROIC.
I continue to remain confident in our business in our ability to further improve financial performance and create shareholder value.
We still have a lot of work to do but our strategy is right we have resources in line and we have the drive and talent to execute.
I will now turn the call over to Bill for his additional comments on the business.
Thanks but before I start it my voice may sound a little scratchy as I’m fighting a little bit of a cold.
So as Mike mentioned in line with our strategy many things are moving in the right direction.
Return on sales return on invested capital and cash flow all continue to be positive.
However currency and unit volumes have challenged us during the first half of the year.
While these headwinds are likely to continue in the short-term I am very pleased with our progress and the new product commercializations that are being executed to deliver margin improvement.
Our product vitality remains very strong.
As you may recall last year for the first time we started measuring vitality.
In 2014 15% of our total revenue came from products that were launched in the prior three years.
We recently calculated our vitality index through the first half of 2015 and it reflects a vitality of just above 15%.
As targeted we are holding an even slightly improving sales of new products.
I am pleased with this level and the benefit it is having on profits across our entire business.
Our pipeline of new products continues to be strong and we will continue to provide favorable mix and strong margins.
Our strategy to grow sales of high technology products and maintain volumes in our low technology products is right.
We are commercializing new business according to plan across the company from protein snacks to shrink flat film in the U.S.
to dairy and liquid applications in Latin America serving everything from tomato sauces to ice-cream.
As we move forward overall volume growth is a topic we are addressing in new ways.
We have proactively engaged a firm that will help us better understand changing consumer preferences purchasing channels and retailer demand in the U.S.
In addition we will be adding talent and making changes in our sales and marketing organization in U.S.
Packaging to increase urgency.
Although we are in the early stages of these changes I am confident that these actions will help ensure growth in our business during the years to come.
Our strategy is right.
We have a great customer base industry-leading technology a global footprint and talented people with the drive and ambition to make things happen.
In addition to the organic opportunities in our business I am very pleased with our recent progress on acquisitions.
As announced earlier this week we have signed an agreement to acquire the rigid plastic packaging operations of Emplal in Brazil.
This acquisition supports our strategy and will complement our strengths and capabilities in the region.
Emplal’s rigid packaging operations include two state-of-the-art facilities that recorded annual net sales of approximately $75 million last year.
The product portfolio includes rigid plastic containers for a variety of food and household goods.
The transaction is planned to close by the end of this year and with our strong management team in the region I anticipate a smooth integration of the two businesses such that the transaction will be accretive to earnings per share in 2016.
Turning to the full-year As Mike noted we are narrowing our EPS range to $2.52 to $2.62.
Where we are within the range will continue to depend on the impact of the currencies in Latin America volume growth in our target end markets and successful commercialization of new business.
We will continue to aggressively look for ways to deliver profits.
I remain very confident that we will continue to deliver improve -- performance improvement toward our long-term goals.
As we are keenly focused on margin return on invested capital and cash flow we’re accelerating growth with our capacity expansions to support the growing demand for our high-end packaging used in protein liquid medical device and pharmaceutical applications.
We continue to deliver innovation with new product introductions that are on pace and are providing margin improvement across all regions.
We remain focused on our customers as when they win we win and we are striving to continuously improve all we do.
In summary I am pleased with our performance this quarter and look forward to further improvements as we continue executing our strategy.
With that we’ll turn the call over to questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll take our first question from Ghansham Panjabi with Baird.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Hey guys good morning.
Good morning.
Hey good morning.
The pricing discipline led market share loss you called out does it signal Bill that a greater portion of your business is commoditized than you initially thought or maybe the competitive environment is not as aligned on pricing or something else? Yeah Ghansham it’s an indication in some of the lower and non-differentiated product lines that we serve customers with.
Some competitors are willing to go in with pricing that we’re just not going to chase and I’m very happy with the way our teams are really rallying around and getting backbone around price on these lower-end commoditized types of business and what’s more important in all this is that our capital allocation process that we now have in place is focusing on areas where we can put capital towards expanding margins in these low-end non-differentiated product lines and that’s one of the reasons we’re starting to expand margins at the rate we are so feel pretty good about where we are and I’m really feeling good about how our teams are addressing our strategic pricing analytics.
Okay.
And then just as my second question on Brazil was there any deceleration during the quarter that you noticed during you know on a monthly basis just adjusting for normal seasonality? Most of your peers have called it a very tough environment in the region.
Your business seems to have held up relatively well.
I'm curious as to why.
Thanks.
Ghansham in Brazil one of the things that when you get these big swings in currency and the reals weakens the way that it has it creates the opportunity for export.
So some of our customers that we serve in that area are now starting to feel the benefit of that and they’re starting to export specifically in the area of meat and protein.
We had some nice lift in our protein business in Brazil this past quarter and I attribute that to the fact that our customer base is now exporting out of Brazil.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Scott Gaffner with Barclays please go ahead your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Scott.
Good morning.
Just following up on those questions when you look at the U.S.
business today you know what percentage of sales would you consider to be in the high barrier high-margin versus you know the low value products that we are talking about here? Just trying to get a sense of how much of the businesses may be at risk? Yeah you know our charts that we use in our investor books you know if you look to the left-hand side of that bar chart we’re in the 50% ranges in the high barrier high degree of differentiation and as it goes out to the right that differentiation starts to wane.
So 50% is at least in the high-end side of the portfolio.
Okay.
And you mentioned a couple of things.
You said sounded like some competitors were willing to change on price a little bit more than you were.
Have you changed the margin threshold for those businesses at all and the capital you are spending does that potentially you know let you lower the pricing at which you are able to go after that business? Can you maybe just wrap those two things together? Hey Scott this is Mike.
I think the way to think about it is when we talk about recapitalizing our assets what we’re doing is you know putting in new technology etcetera that actually lowers our costs and then makes those kind of external price points that are market driven much better for us from a margin perspective.
Thank you.
Next we’ll move to Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Yeah I wondered if you can give us some sense down in Brazil in particular about how much of the growth that you are seeing is coming from existing businesses and how much is coming from some of those new product rollouts that you had? Hi Mark this is Bill.
Yeah.
Difficult to say.
We put in some nine layer ice technology about a year ago commercialized it now it’s really starting to ramp up in the meat and cheese area specifically against local competitors that are selling just a cast nylon film.
It doesn’t have the same characteristics.
So we’re really starting to get that ramped up and our vitality if you look at our vitality for our global business it’s greater than where we thought it would be at this time.
So we’re getting great acceleration in product vitality coming through on the global side of the business.
So we had put some assets into Brazil and we’re starting to fill those up now and take share from local competitors that don’t have the same technologies.
Okay.
And then Bill if I could if I could just for a follow on you know you said you were really excelling in most of the items that were within the business plan.
What are the items where you would say you’re coming up short at this point? You know it’s really volume Mark as we look at it it’s volume and specifically volume in U.S.
Packaging.
That’s it everywhere else; I mean I am very pleased with how this business is operating.
The execution that the teams are on right now the operating guys out in the plants are running at low waste low scrap high throughputs and the commercial teams are doing a great job as well because they have got a backbone around pricing analytics and pricing strategies.
So we get a little bit of volume we drive a little bit of volume but I’ll tell you I’m not losing sleep over it.
I’m not losing sleep over the fact that where our volume is today in the short-term we’re 10% into our five-year journey right? We’ve completed six months of a 60-month journey that we’re on and I’m not losing sleep about where we are right now.
I’m very comfortable with our vitality rate I’m very comfortable with the fact that we’ve got good commercialized pipeline coming on stream all around the world so I feel pretty good about where we’re at.
Thank you.
Next we’ll move to Adam Josephson with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Thanks good morning everyone.
A couple for Mike Mike you said you don't expect working capital to be a drag this year.
How much of a benefit do you expect it to be just given that it was about a $150 million drag last year? As I said in the past you know when we get to our goal of that 15% primary working capital it’s an incremental $140 million pickup that is going to cap in between now and the end of 2016.
End of 2016.
And just on the CapEx guidance can you just talk about precisely what precipitated the increase in the guidance? Yeah I’ll comment on that.
You know we are – our business units are executing much quicker than we had anticipated and it’s really more on the recapitalization projects.
It’s not the growth type projects and it’s just a function of stuff that was originally estimated to be spent in the first half of ’17 is now coming – ’16 ’16 I’m sorry is now pulling into the latter part of ’15.
Thank you.
Next we’ll move to Anthony Pettinari with Citibank.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Good morning.
You talked about taking additional steps to locate organic volume growth and understand changes in consumer preferences and you know you referenced that in talent and retaining an outside firm.
I was wondering if it was possible to give any color on how big those changes might be.
I mean is this just a matter of one or two key hires? The firm that you are retaining is it kind of a short-term consulting engagement or is this something more involved? Just wondering to the extent that you can can you give us any kind of color on those efforts? Sure sure Anthony this is Bill.
You know if you just step back for a minute and you look at where we are okay as Bemis Company we are three steps removed from the ultimate buy and that’s the consumer and for years and years we’ve been led if you will by the CPG companies who have been led by their retailer who has been led by consumer preferences.
What we’re trying to do is get more insight and get more knowledge around the consumer okay? Not that we’re going to try to do you know the CPG’s or the retailer’s job but we want to get closer to understanding what is changing in the mind of the consumer base and what new shops are they looking at.
What is online going to look like? What kind of packaging can we bring proactively to either the CPG or the retailer to meet the consumers’ preference and that’s what we’re trying to get at.
It’s something we haven’t done before.
It’s new for us and that’s the direction we’re going there with a boutique consulting firm that is highly recognized in this area and as far as the changes are taking place those changes are taking place in U.S.
Packaging so just we’re bringing in some more talent to help with this whole concept of where the consumer is headed some more analytics some more marketing talent and knowledge and we are in the early stages of it but we want to be proactive because there is a change taking place in the U.S.
and we want to be on the frontend of it.
Okay that is helpful.
And then just in U.S.
Packaging you know the strategic pricing discipline was a drag on vols.
Do you anticipate that drag continuing in the third quarter or the second half of the year? Is it something that is accelerated or maybe was more of a 2Q event or how should we think about that? I don’t think what I’m assuming right now is year-to-date we are down about 3.5% year-over-year in U.S.
Packaging.
My bottom end is we stay at that level but I do also feel optimistic with some of the stuff in the pipeline that we should see that decline narrowing as we go through the rest of the year.
Thank you.
Next we will move to Chip Dillon with Vertical Research Partners.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
This is actually Bryan Lynch filling in for Chip.
Just a quick question on CapEx for 2016.
I think I heard you guys saying that you pulled through some of your 2016 CapEx into 2015.
I was wondering if you had any read through on what 2016 CapEx would be.
I still we’ve got some nice recapitalization projects to finish up.
I would consider in that same range that we just led you up to for 2016 200 million-ish 215 some like that.
Next question.
Thank you.
Next we will move to Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning guys.
The share loss clouded some of the numbers but can you help quantify the contribution and the progress of the commercialization of some of your new products.
Is it generally coming in pretty much in line with what you expected a little slower? Just color on that front would be helpful.
Hi Phil.
We are right on track with where we wanted new product commercialization’s to be.
And that’s not just in the U.S.
but it is also in the rest of the world that’s why we got a higher vitality number in the global piece than we would have in the U.S.
but we are still ahead of the 15% that we read at the end of 2014.
So we feel really good we got some new products that have been commercialized and they are ramping up.
We’ve got a self venting retort pouch that is commercial and is on the shelf in grocers right now for pasta sauces and other kinds of sauces and gravies.
And the cool thing about that is that that customer developed that project in our new innovation center and used our equipment and our prototyping equipment to bring that product to market very quickly.
So that’s a real win for us.
We’ve got all these stick packs that are out there.
We got a product coming out now that is a little semi-rigid with a flexible on it and it is a one-handed opening type of a pouch package I should say for these kinds of stick packs where you take two hands and you got to find the tear notch and tear them open.
So a lot of good things going on.
We won a DuPont award for new commercialization of a cheese package.
Now that company is taking that same package and extending it across their product line.
Some customers going back to cold seal away from heat seal films which is a nice thing for us as we were at one time when cold seal was big a leader in cold seal and we will be a leader in that again.
So feel really good about where we are with the pipeline and the stage-gate process of bringing those projects to market quickly.
That is helpful.
How much did resin contribute to the quarter if any and are you done passing pricing through via your price escalators? I am just trying to gauge if the current price mix is a good placeholder for the back half.
With resin we had very minimal benefit from resin in the quarter.
If it would have been of any significance I would have called it out.
And I would say that looking forward the margin profiles are good spot right now but I will caution you as you go into Q4 it’s just our lighter demand quarter sort of it will dip a little there.
Thank you.
Next we will move to Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen.
I kind of wanted to go back to the first part of Phil's question and I know this is a difficult thing to answer.
But when we see volumes in the U.S.
piece organic or base real volumes down mid-single digits 5% but yet vitality index is working higher.
How should we think about kind of a couple of parts to this – how should we think about if it is possible at all Bill to quantify this or to think about this? Should we be – we think about the business kind of the churn from the perspective of if you have had 5% down base volume but yet you are commercializing lots of new things are we really seeing 10% base business volume down 5% new stuff getting introduced how would we think about that? Yeah.
When business goes away okay when we strategically price something it’s a big piece of volume or that goes away now okay.
And if we lose it because of strategic pricing it’s obviously business that doesn’t have a lot of margin in it okay.
So it’s got a lot of MSI but not a lot of calories alright.
And as we bring on new products they ramp up at a slower pace than a big piece of volume going away.
But the mix that we get from that new ramp up that new product gets introduced has got a lot more calories in it than what just went away.
So our business isn’t modally run the way we are driving things – we are not a big we are driving it because volume has a big impact.
Mix has a greater impact for us and calories in that mix has even a greater impact.
So if you go back to my days at MACtac the old pressure sensitive business that was a volume.
We needed billions of square inches to make that business work okay.
We got out of it because we just couldn’t drive anymore square inches.
We needed more investment to drive more square inches.
Where we are today in the U.S.
is that when a big piece of low calorie low margin business goes away we are refilling that with the ramp up of high value high margin great mix to the business and we get leverage on our return metrics.
It’s how we are running the business.
That makes sense and I get that.
But when we see a net volume number that continues to erode I mean that has kind of led to some of the actions in 2014 with capacity restructuring and some cuts and things of that nature and at some point – I guess maybe to come at one little different way as my follow-up how long would we anticipate to see before you went through a couple year process where it was optimization impact or different things of that nature? You referred to it as where we would continue to see net volumes in a decreasing fashion.
Is this a kind of one piece of business you see as a limited thing and it runs for 12 months kind of at these rates? Is it something that you see persisting? Is the new normal volume environment maybe something that this is an ongoing thing that is a 1% to 2% negative for the next three four five years? How would you kind of think about the pace as we go forward? Right.
Chris I agree with what you said.
We obviously have to grow okay.
We can’t continue to contract alright.
And that’s as Mike talked about the recapitalization capital that is going into the business to recapitalize so that those pieces of business that are at the lower end of the differentiation scale we can expand margins at the current market pricing.
It’s slowing down and we are putting capital into stop it and expand those margins but I agree with you.
We can’t continue to contract we have to grow and we will and we have a good plan to do that.
Thank you.
Next we will move to Mark Henneman with Mairs and Power.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
I guess I'm going to try to ask the same question a little bit differently.
But I am curious with this investment that you are doing to maintain the low technology business how long does it take to get that in place? And let's just say it was in place this quarter how much of that business that you lost because of strategic pricing would you have been able to retain? Mark this is Bill.
It’s a difficult question to answer.
The piece of the business we lost was a beverage overwrap bottle of water overwrap.
We retained a piece of it and we lost some okay.
We had a large position we kept some and we lost some because somebody went in with a lower price and we didn't want to chase it down and we felt good with the piece that we retained.
Our recapitalization efforts slow that down and stopped that as we have done with our bread bag business.
We have recapitalized in the bread bag business in such a way that we brought low single-digit business up to low teens margins by recapitalization of some printing assets.
That we’re going to see across the rest of the business as these recapitalization projects get completed.
And then these recapitalization projects they have the same ROIC bogey do you expect them to have the same or to meet that bogey? Yes they sure do Mark.
15% five year average return on invested capital and the recapitalization projects actually have better than the 15% because there is volume to put across those projects right away.
The ones that we’ve installed thus far and we’ve done audits on we are achieving our return metrics faster than the actual request would have outlined.
Thank you.
And next we will move to Mark Wilde with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Just a couple of follow-ons.
One can you give us some sense of kind of pharma and medical packaging as a percent of your sales here in the second quarter and where you would like to see that over the next three or four years? In the second quarter Mark I don’t know if have it.
Even just average for this year that would be a good starting point and then sort of where you want to see that over time? Yeah currently it’s in the 10% range of total revenue.
And we would see that growing with the investments we put in.
And if you go back to the Investor Day we have the business plan around medical healthcare pharma is 10% CAGR over the next five years and there is a plan in place to achieve that.
Okay and then just as a follow-on Mike can you give us some sense of what your M&amp;A pipeline looks like right now? I’m not.
What I’ll say is as we’ve talked before we’re not chasing things that are processes and we are kind of focused on developing relationships with businesses that could come up for sale.
And I would tell you right at the moment it would be a little bit more focused at global than at U.S.
Packaging for reasons of everything in the U.S.
right now tends to be in a process and we’re not going to chase something and pay 10 times EBITDA hope that helped.
Thank you.
Next we will move to George Staphos Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Hello everyone.
Good morning.
Jumping on the call late so I apologize if you have answered any of these questions in advance.
From a market standpoint how would you grade or gauge your success in re-educating your customers for your need to improve returns to get fair pricing across your SKUs and to what degree are you seeing similar strategies being implemented in your markets from peer companies? Yeah.
George this is Bill.
Good morning Bill.
I would give ourselves a pretty good grade on how our commercial teams are educating our customers.
I give them a fairly good grade.
Can you discuss how you evaluate that the grade that you are giving them and why? I think it goes to the strategic pricing in this initiative and the analytics that we are putting in place.
Our teams are out there talking showing showing the customers analytically the value that we are bringing to them across their portfolio okay.
We bring you field service we bring innovation before we talked about it.
Now we actually have a method to analytically show the customer what that value adds to and that’s all part of the strategic pricing program that we put in place and the analytics that we put in place and I give our team good credit for doing that and it’s helping us expand margins it’s helping us retain customers and it’s also bringing the customers into our new innovation center here in Neenah.
And they are innovating with this self-venting retort pouch I talked about.
The customer came and spent several weeks in our innovation center using our retort chambers using our quick prototyping equipment using our machinery to develop that pouch quickly so now it’s commercial.
I think we’re doing a pretty good job there.
Okay I guess my follow on then would be and I appreciate the thoughts – to the extent that maybe you have already commented on the volume drop in U.S.
Packaging how should we reconcile the volume drop there with the analytics that you are bringing to your customers to demonstrate what value you are bringing to them and your movement up or current absolute level of innovation and value that you bring within your packaging? In other words if I am bringing a lot of value and I'm being very innovative then I should be able to price accordingly and not see as much volume drop off.
So help us reconcile that and again apologies if you have already answered that on the call.
Right.
we see that coming through in mix okay.
If you look at the mix within each segment the mix is getting better within meat it is getting better within cheese we are driving the mix up within segments to be more profitable.
And I think that’s solely attributable to working with the customers more closely bringing them value-add on the frontend.
Protein snacking we are driving that segment right now and every protein customer is coming to us looking for their version of the P3 or the REV package from Hormel.
We've got them now for Sargento.
We've got them now for companies that I've never even heard of before they are all coming out with a protein snack and we are the guys that are developing that for them.
So I think that that’s a reference point for us that we are doing the right things with innovation and we are getting paid for it.
And I truly believe we are getting paid for our innovation.
If you look at the share loss not the share loss but the volume loss in U.S.
Packaging a piece of it was share loss by our customer a very large customer.
They lost share in the market they raised price on a drink pouch lost volume and they called down our volumes for the rest of the year.
So that’s just volume loss because our customer lost share not because we did something wrong.
Thank you.
Next we will move to Alex Ovshey with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning guys.
Hi good morning.
Just in Brazil can you talk about how that business is performing in the context of the weakness we continue to read about in Brazil and just the outlook for the business for the balance of the year? Yeah.
Alex this is Bill.
In local currency our Brazilian team and our whole Latin American team is doing quite well.
It’s the translation where we see the loss.
Consumption is down however we are staying ahead of the inflation curve.
So in local currency we are doing a great job and continuing to make profit in that part of the world.
And we saw nice improvements in our protein category and our protein segment out of Brazil because of export.
So we feel good with our position in Brazil and the fact now that some of these larger companies down they’re going to start to export their product out of Brazil because of the level of the Real.
So we feel good about it.
That is helpful.
And then just with this drop in resin prices it sounds like it may be at this level for some time are you seeing that accelerate the potential conversion from non-plastic substrates into plastics given where res currently is? Alex I have no data to support a faster conversion at all.
I don’t see anything there.
I don’t have the data.
Thank you.
Next we will move to Adam Josephson with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking my follow-up questions I appreciate it.
Just one more on resin.
Bill what is your expectation for polyethylene prices later this year? My view of it is going to be stable with where it is today.
I don't see change – I don’t have anything to tell me there is going to be any change from where it is today.
Okay and just one on back to U.S.
volume – sorry to beat a dead horse here but obviously you had your Investor Day a few months ago.
You gave the five-year U.S.
volume growth target of 2%.
We are sitting here midyear 2015 it is down 3.5% and you talked about your customer losing share the strategic pricing you've got the market that is weak.
Is it all of those factors that are driving this decline and do you still expect to grow 2% long-term or just based on what you have seen in the last few months does that target no longer apply? We are 10% into our journey.
This is just a momentary we still expect to grow 2% over that long term in U.S.
Packaging.
We are confident we are going to be able to do that with our innovation pipeline with what we are brining at the table we feel good about that we are not backing off that.
Thank you next we will move to George Staphos Bank of America Merrill Lynch please ahead.
Hi Bill again in the category you may have already answered this and I apologize in advance.
Can you update us if you haven't already in terms of what kind of share move you are seeing in standup pouches? Do you have any data to support whether you are seeing an accelerated move or maybe some deceleration there? And then I have a follow one on a different topic? George I don’t have any data that suggest this moving faster than the 2% that we have seen historically.
However the new self-venting retort pouch it’s a nice win for us.
Okay I will go back to the transcript and dig into that.
I guess the last thing I have for you if you were in our seat and trying to evaluate how you are progressing relative to your guidance both for the quarter and the year what factors would you be looking at that would suggest you are either trending toward the high-end or the low-end of your guidance? What are the key risk factors or swing factors that we would have visibility into? What would you have us key on? Thanks and good luck in the quarter.
Thanks George.
Currency and volume in the U.S.
those are the two things.
We don’t control currency obviously and we are doing everything we can do offset it with cost reductions but that is some we don’t control but if you look at you want to grade us and we talked about where we are focused right we are focused on operating profit as a percent of sale ROS and we want to be 15 to 18 over the overall planning horizon of five years in U.S.
Packaging.
We want to be greater than 10 in global packaging.
We are moving the needle in that direction.
We are on our slope we are on the trend we want to be on.
ROIC we want to be in the top quartile.
We’ve moved the needle and we have moved and we continue to move the needle in ROIC and we are going to continue to move we are on our slope there.
And cash we know that we risked on cash last year we are not going to do it again this year.
Mike has got his whole team wrapped around it the organization is wrapped around it we are doing a good job there.
So in those areas I think we get good grace where we have got to put a little bit more urgency a little bit more rigor is around how we are going to get some volumes in US and that’s where the teams are focused we are only six months in to a 60 month journey.
We feel good about where we are.
We’ve got a great innovation pipeline coming.
We are innovating brining products out every quarter around the world so we are going to move the needle there.
We feel good about where we are and what we’ve done and how we have performed.
Thank you and at this time we have no further questions.
I’ll turn the call back over for closing comments or remarks.
Thank you operator.
Thank you all for joining us today.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference you may disconnect at any time and have a great day.
Good day and welcome to the Bemis Company Hosted Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Erin Winters.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our third quarter 2015 conference call.
Today is October 22 2015.
After today’s call a replay will be available on our website bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are Bemis Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer Bill Austen our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mike Clauer and our Vice President and Controller Jerry Krempa.
Following Bill and Mike’s comments on our business and outlook we will answer any questions you have.
However in order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate we do ask that you limit yourself to one question at a time with a related follow-up and then fall back into the queue for any additional questions.
On today’s call we will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures as we talk about our performance.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures that we consider most comparable can be found in the press release and supplemental schedules on our website.
And finally a reminder that statements regarding future performance of the company made during this call are forward-looking and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors.
Please refer to Bemis Company’s regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K to review these risk factors.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Bill Austen.
Thank you Erin and good morning everyone.
Bemis performed well this quarter in a slow growth and volatile currency environment.
Our operations are strong and we are executing our strategy with focus alignment accountability and rigor.
We delivered adjusted earnings of $0.67 per share a 9.8% increase over the prior year; this in light of a $0.06 translation headwind as currencies in Latin America devalued significantly compared to one year ago.
We delivered highest gross margin in many years at 21.8% driven by our recapitalization efforts focused that improving productivity and efficiency our innovation pipeline that continues to improve the mix of the products we sell and our strong operational performance across the entire company.
We increased operating profit margins in our U.S.
packaging segment to 14.5% a 120 basis point increase over the prior third quarter reflecting great progress toward our long-term goal of 15% to 18% in this segment.
We increased adjusted operating profit margins in our global packaging segment to 9.7% a 110 basis point increase over the prior third quarter exceeding my expectations and above pace toward our goal of double-digit returns in this segment over the three to five-year horizon.
We again increased ROIC to 10.3% versus 9.6% one year ago.
We generated $194 million of operating cash flow another quarter of vast improvement and through the third quarter we have already exceeded our original full year cash flow target stated in January an excellent demonstration of the focus discipline accountability and urgency we have instilled and continue to drive throughout our entire business.
And finally we continue to execute our capital expansions and improvements to plan.
Again this quarter we are selling at most items that we’ve targeted.
Currency and unit volumes continue to be a challenge in the short-term but I am pleased with the following actions we have taken to deliver growth in the long-term that will help provide continued margin expansion.
First this month we officially open the Bemis innovation center in Neenah Wisconsin.
This facility is already becoming a global hub for our customers a place where we work side by side with them to ideate innovate and collaborate packaging solutions to provide success and growth to their brands.
The innovation center supports long-term growth and we have already had some early wins that have created success for our customers and ourselves.
For example while the facility was still under construction we hosted a customer at our Innovation Center in February to help solve their packaging needs for a new product.
Leveraging our base of innovation we were able to ideate develop a prototype and test a self-venting retort standup pouch for their pasta meal in a very short time frame.
From ideation to store shelf it took only six months.
I am confident that in conjunction with our strong innovation pipeline our disciplined stage-gate process and our drive and ambition to grow the innovation center will support success in the years to come.
Second we are executing on our capital plan.
Our healthcare expansion project in Wisconsin that will elevate our industry-leading quality and support growth is on track and progressing well.
The facility and equipment installations were completed on schedule and in October we successfully achieved CODR [ph] validation and product functional equivalency which allows us to ship commercial product from the new facility a great job by our healthcare team.
We continue to expect to see margin improvement from this project in 2016.
We have a variety of growth and productivity projects that are coming online in the near term and will support both revenue and continued margin improvement in 2016 and the future.
We continue to execute our capital projects that will support the growing demand for our high-end packaging used for protein liquid and medical applications.
We also continue to execute on select capital investments to improve the margin profile in specific end markets where technology and differentiation are not as important to our customers.
We are recapitalizing select printing presses slitters and other converting equipment for our strategic plan with diligence and speed.
Third as I mentioned last quarter while in its early stages we have made some changes in our sales and marketing organization in U.S.
Packaging to increase urgency toward growth.
Rick Michaletz who many of you met at Investor Day has successfully completed his assignment as President of our European business and has taken on a new roll of Vice President of sales and business development for U.S.
Packaging.
Rick is an exceptional and proven leader with a strong commercial and operations background and I'm confident that Rick’s leadership of our commercial teams in the U.S.
will drive our growth plan as we move forward.
I’m pleased with the actions and progress we are making toward growing our business.
Turning to the full year we are bringing down the top end of our EPS range from $2.62 to $2.57 fully on account of currency translation.
Mike will cover the details in a bit but while currency has been a challenge to profits this year particularly in Latin America I am very pleased with how our business is performing in local currency.
My long term view has not changed.
We continue to target EPS growth at 10% plus per year balanced organic and inorganic revenue growth operating profit margins at 15% to 18% in U.S.
Packaging and 10 plus in Global in the three to five-year window ROIC in the top quartile of our peer group by 2019 cash from organic operations that exceeds $550 million by 2019.
I remain very confident that we will continue to deliver performance improvement towards these long term goals.
In summary we performed well in the quarter.
I’m proud of our teams across the globe who are executing our strategy with a renewed sense of urgency and improving all that they do on a daily basis.
It is an important time in Bemis history as we continue to transition toward high performance that is reflected in all of our financial metrics.
We still have a lot of work to do but our strategy is right our resources are aligned and we have the drive and talent to execute our plans.
With that I’ll turn things over to Mike for a review of the financials and his comments on the future.
Thanks Bill and good morning.
As Bill mentioned we reported adjusted earnings of $0.67 per share a 9.8% increase compare to the prior third quarter.
This includes overcoming a currency translation headwind of approximately $0.06 versus the prior year third quarter primarily driven by currencies in Latin America with continued value against the dollar.
We delivered solid improvement in gross margins at 21.8% versus 20.1% the prior third quarter.
This improvement was driven by continued effort in executing our strategy specifically the favorable impact of productivity and efficiency projects we have executed as part of our capital plan and improved price mix as we execute our strategy to sell a higher portion of value added sophisticated packages.
I will provide comments on each reportable segment followed by a discussion of total company expenses and performance.
First U.S.
Packaging; in the third quarter sales dollars in our U.S.
segment declined 3.7%.
Overall unit volumes were down approximately 3% compared to the prior third quarter.
Approximately two-thirds of this unit volume decline was driven by our strategic pricing decision to exit some low margin bottle water overwrap business in the prior periods and the remainder was driven by a select customer who lost share with their beverage pouch at the retail level.
Aside from volumes the remaining decline in sales dollars was driven by contractual price reductions to pass through lower raw material cost which do not have pack operating profits partially offset by favorable mix in-line with our strategy.
Some additional end market details for the quarter unit volumes in our meat and cheese dairy and liquid end markets were down slightly.
Our analysis indicates there are no drivers out of the ordinary and we continue to be optimistic about volumes in the long term.
Mix within these end markets were strong as we continue to gain traction with new product innovation.
Everything from our flat film for meat were portion packaging for protein snacks to high end laminations used in liquid applications.
With regard to our book growth plans in the U.S.
over our strategic horizon we have completed our normal periodic review of our business plan and continue to expect volumes to return positive in 2016 and future years.
We have a good line of side of upcoming product launches for high technology products our innovation pipeline is strong and we see benefits from our recapitalization of converting equipment that will support retaining current volumes in our less differentiated business.
We remain confident and determined in our long-term plan to grow our business.
U.S.
packaging operating profit return on sales for the third quarter was 14.5% compared to 13.3% in the prior year.
Third quarter returns benefited from operational efficiencies favorable sales mix and continue diligence in controlling costs.
Moving to our global packaging segment.
In the third quarter global packaging sales decreased 14%.
Currency decreased sales by 22.1% as currencies in Latin America and the lesser extent Europe could be valued against the U.S.
dollar.
Excluding currencies global packaging delivered total organic growth of 8.1% which included a 2% increase in unit volumes in addition to a favorable price mix.
Before commenting on the various regions of our global business I will cover returns in our global packaging segment another very profitable quarter.
Adjusted global operating profit return on sales for the third quarter of 9.7% compares with 8.6% for the prior third quarter.
High returns in global packaging were a result of strong operational performance throughout all regions and improved price mix from sales of meat cheese dairy and liquid packaging.
Currency negatively impacted operating profits by $8.8 million this quarter or about $0.06 related primarily to the translation of profits in Brazil to the U.S.
dollars compared to the prior third quarter.
Through three quarters currency translation has trimmed 17.5% from our profits versus the prior year or approximately $0.12 of total company earnings per share.
Well currency has certainly been a challenge we are very pleased with the performance of our global businesses in local currency.
We are improving returns growing sales in our targeted end markets and demonstrating urgency and discipline in all areas.
Some regional details.
In Latin America while the environment is tough for some industries our business continues to do well.
Our teams are doing an excellent job of passing through inflationary cost.
While overall unit volumes were flat to slightly down during the quarter we are executing on our strategy some more value-added products particularly to our meat and cheese and dairy and liquid end markets where volumes were very strong this quarter.
In Europe where our business is focused on meat and cheese packaging unit volumes were up mid-single-digits again in line with our strategy to grow these value-added products.
In Asia-Pacific unit volumes were also up mid-single-digits.
This growth was in a variety of areas including meat which we strategically target in Asia.
We continue to see our customers expanding their use of meat packaging and the reach to applications that were formally sold in open air markets and had never before than packaged.
Our global healthcare business is performing well.
Overall unit volumes were flat during the quarter with particular strength in the U.S.
and Europe offset by softer consumption in Latin America and timing of orders in Asia.
Our healthcare business is strong and continues to be an integral part of our growth strategy.
Now on to Bemis consolidated results.
Total Bemis Company SG&amp;A expense was $101.8 million down from the prior year.
We continue to be focused on implementing discipline and accountability to keep SG&amp;A dollars flat over a long-term strategic horizon.
Research and development expense for the quarter was $11 million approximately flat with the prior year.
We expect to continue at this level to support new product innovation and commercialization.
The income tax rate for the third quarter was 33.6% in line with our expectations for the full year ’15.
Year-to-date cash from operations has increased to $412 million compared to $192 million the prior year.
We have exceeded our original plan of $400 million plus for the entire year within the first three quarters.
As you may recall we established a target early this year to reduce working capital percent of sales to 14% range by the end of 2016 which equates to taking out approximately $140 million of working capital.
While our original 2015 cash flow guidance assumed that working capital will not be a source during the year we began executing to improve payment terms with our vendors to industry standard levels during the third quarter and started realizing significant benefits.
We also recognized that cash flow benefited by $20 million to $25 million from the mathematical flow through of lower raw material cost.
We are updating our full year 2015 guidance for cash from operations to $500 million plus.
We will continue with focus discipline and urgency to deliver continued success and generating cash.
Capital expenditures were approximately $148 million through the first threes quarter this year as compared to $113 million last year and in line with our expectations.
We continue to expect 2015 capital expenditures between $200 million and $215 million to support growth and productivity projects in our pipeline.
Touching on our leverage metrics net debt to adjusted EBITDA at the end of third quarter was 2.1 times within our expected range.
We will continue to generate strong cash flow invest capital wisely and not accumulate cash.
Our priorities continue to be to support our dividend program and invest in capital projects and fund strategic acquisitions or share repurchases.
During the third quarter we repurchased 0.5 million shares for a total of $20.9 million.
At September 30 the remaining Board authorization for share repurchase was 4.4 million shares.
Turning to the full year outlook as Bill mentioned we are narrowing our adjusted EPS for 2015 to the range of $2.52 to $2.57 fully on account of currency translation.
While currency and volume have challenges this year we are still maintaining the low-end of our guidance.
Since our earnings call in July currencies particularly the Brazil real have moved unfavorably creating an additional headwind of approximately $0.05 in the back half for the year versus our guidance shared at the end of the second quarter.
In relation to the EPS range of $2.52 to $2.57 where we are in the range will depend on further movement of currencies and volumes in our business.
Fourth quarter is seasonally light quarter for us.
Without a meaningful improvement in unit volumes I anticipate that we would be toward the lower end of the EPS range.
We will continue to focus on the things we can control to deliver earnings.
In summary I remain confident in our business in our ability to further improve financial performance to create long term shareholder value.
With that we will turn the call over for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
We ask that you ask one question and one follow-up question we will release you after your follow-up at which point you can re-queue to get back into the question queue.
Our first question comes from Ghansham Panjabi from Robert W.
Baird &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
It's actually Mehul Dalia sitting in for Ghansham.
Can you quantify the benefit from lower raw material cost during 3Q on EBIT margin? On EBIT margins it was very minimal.
As you guys all know we’ve done a really good job of taken the volatility out of passing through changing input cost.
Great and thanks for the commentary about the improvements you are making in the U.S.
Do you know that when should we expect to see some sort of inflection in North America volume? As I said in my remarks we are still -- our view hasn’t changed.
We viewed 10% EPS growth in 2016 and we see that volumes will increase in North America to the 2% range where we've targeted in our Investor Day 2016.
That's why we made some of the changes in our commercial team.
And our next question comes from George Staphos from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
I want to hear you back a little bit on that last comment Bill in the question.
So you did this review.
It sounded like of your markets and products could you provide a little bit more clarity in terms of what that review told you about the long term volume outlook and why you should be confident and if you're confident whether you need to change management.
And then second question I had can you parse for us what the mix benefit was? Obviously price mix was down because the resin passed through but what was mix up in the quarter if you can share that? Thank you.
George this is Bill.
I will take the volume side of that.
Yes we gone through a good review of our innovation pipeline in the productivity projects that we have slated based on our capital spending and we feel very comfortable with what we’ve targeted for 2016 the 2% growth in North America.
We filtered with that based on the innovation and the productivity improvements that we have slated.
And touching on your margin when I think about the margin improvement for the company about half of it came from productivity and efficiency and that would have been heavier in U.S.
Packaging and about half of it was innovation mix which would have been heavier in Global Packaging? And we’ll take our next question from Scott Gaffner from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
My question is really around Mike just mentioned the margin improvement and at least in the quarter of 50% productivity 50% innovation.
If I look at sort of our model here you have got about 120 basis points of margin improvement 2015.
What would keep you from getting another 120 basis points of margin improvement in 2016 or maybe it's achievable? At this point it's a steady build.
I think we’re doing a little bit better in ‘15 than we would have anticipated in our five-year plan.
But again I’m not going to -- I don't think I’m going to -- we’re going to sign up for 120% improvement right now.
But we do still feel confident we’re going to be improving as we move towards our long term goal.
So 15 to 18 in U.S.
Packaging and plus 10% in Global.
Sure but even just conceptually as we move into 2016 has that productivity come down and innovation it sounds like Bill you are saying innovation goes up.
How should we think about the mix there? Scott this is Bill.
We looked the next this year.
It’s a 50-50 split between innovation and productivity and efficiency because we’ve got the lower hanging fruit on the productivity side.
You see that earlier.
We’ll continue to get that productivity from projects we’ve installed this year because they'll lap themselves somewhere in 2016.
But we have good site to more productivity projects that as you recall from last quarter we pull capital forward to drive sooner productivity gains into 2016.
So we’ll continue on that pace and then the innovation will start to kick in even greater than it has now.
So it's still going to be that 50-50 60-40 kind of a split in that range between innovation and productivity.
So we’re comfortable and we have good line of sight.
And our next question comes from Chip Dillon from Vertical Research Partners.
Please go ahead.
Yes thank you very much.
Just a couple of financial questions to near-term Mike.
One is when you look at the impressive cash flow thanks for calling out the working capital benefit of the raw materials.
Is there also a measurable working capital benefit because of the FX changes I guess with the financing of receivables down in Brazil? And then secondly can you give us updated view of how you see CapEx in 2016 and 17 based on your current footprint and given that it’s been elevated this year? First of all I don’t see any big change or any impact on cash flow as a result of FX.
We kind of pull that out and look at it without it.
And then as far as capital’s concern as we said on Investor Day and it still holds through we’re still going to be that $200 million to $215 million in '16 and maybe '17 and then after that we should start seeing a decline other than any potential acquisitions and how that might change our capital requirements on adding more revenue and assets to our business.
And our next question comes from Anthony Pettinari from Citibank.
Please go ahead.
I just had a question on the global business since specifically Brazil.
You indicated you’re pretty happy with how those businesses are performing on a same currency basis.
In Brazil meat production is down pretty sharply year-over-year.
I was just wondering if you could give a little color on how your business is performing in Brazil and maybe overcoming some of those headwinds? Yes thanks Anthony.
This is Bill.
As we said we’re very happy with the performance of our business in Brazil.
And if you look at what we do as we make packaging for products that people use every day two years ago we made some investments in some technology in Brazil to bring down some proprietary meat films protein films for that market to start to change the market away from what locally produced films are all about to bring down Bemis innovation in terms of ISO.
We’ve been gaining share with that technology from locally produced film.
So whether meat film is now -- we were not big in that market prior.
Now we’re big in that market because we’re gaining share from locally produce suppliers.
So that’s a good thing for us and we see that continuing as we -- at capacity utilization on that line continues to increase.
And then just switching back to the U.S.
the capitalization of kind of lower margin converting assets when is that process completed? Probably '17 and honestly it’ll never be completed.
What we’re doing right now is probably catching up for underspending from 2010 through '13 as the Company was a lot more focused on integrating that large acquisition.
So what you’re seeing right now is a catch-up but we will -- it’s going to become part of -- it is become part of our DNA that we will always be capitalizing assets going into the future.
And we’ll take our next question from Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
With the share loss lapping next year in North America for some of your commodity business comps obviously get a lot easier in 2016.
To the 2% growth target you have for North America how much of that is driven by new products and maybe some of the benefits from the recapitalization of assets? And are you assuming any recovery in packaged fruit demand for the bottom market overall? Thanks.
At this point we are not anticipating any recovery.
We’re going to work off the assumptions that consumption in the U.S.
is flat to slightly down.
We have no reasons to think otherwise.
So I think more of the growth is going to really be coming from the innovation side of our packaging.
Hope that answers your question.
And our next question comes from Chris Manuel from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
I wanted to kind of focus for a second on the global business if I could or the global packaging component.
Again made great progress there already kind of upper nine as far as margin percentage and close target.
Is there anything that could happen that you'd foresee over the next few quarters that might kind of go backwards a little bit? Or seemingly you're pretty far down the path of exceeding some of those goals or how would you think about maybe raising the bar a bit further.
How do you balance that Bill? Look Chris I don't see anything that's going to change where we are over the next couple of quarters.
And we’ve always said 10 plus.
So we’re not going to back off on 10 and then stop.
We’re going to continue to drive for 10 plus and our business teams know that.
We're continuing to put innovation into all of the regions of the world.
We’ve got assets going into Europe right now that continue to drive their improvements that have been significant for us over the last year or so.
Same thing in Latin America.
We're going to continue to invest there to continue to drive innovation and bring new packaging technologies to those regions to continue the change the mix and up-scale the mix that we’ve always been focused on.
And same thing in medical.
That medical facility in Wisconsin is now up and running.
Its validated and qualified.
So we can ship commercial product from there and we're still focused on that 200 basis points improvement in the medical business next year that we’ve stated right from the start.
So we’re going to continue to push that beyond 10.
Okay.
And then the second question kind of centers around capital allocation and a particular -- some of the working capital and progress you are making what you might do with some of this but on first element of this Mike you had talked about $140 million of working capital opportunity from your reduction program.
I don't think that was inclusive of the 25 you've got from raw material.
So can we kind of think of that total bar as maybe 165? And then second part of this is what your intentions are to kind of the near term to do with it.
It looks like share repurchase kind of slowed a bit.
Are you seeing anything in the M&amp;A markets that get you excited or how might you think about uses of cash over the balance of the year? First of all I answer your question it's more important is it that when we made the statement about $140 million it's really more about getting ourselves to that 14% primary working capital percentage in that sales.
We kind of ended Q3 -- we were just south of 16%.
So we’ve made some pretty nice progress and we’ll continue to make progress as we drive to get to that level.
So I think that answers your first question.
As far as second question on the M&amp;A side we do have [indiscernible] right now.
The positive side is there seems to be no road blocks at this point in time.
It's now just a question of when we get approval on the process.
So that would be potentially a use of cash in the fourth quarter but of course I've said it before.
We’re not going to delever.
So we're going to use the stock either do an acquisition or buyback stock and the way I’m looking at it right now we'll react to the timing of M-plow [ph] as we know a little bit better.
And our next question comes from Mark Wilde of Bank of Montreal.
Please go ahead.
Bill I wondered if either you or Mike could just give us a little update on what you are seeing in terms of the M&amp;A market right now? I know acquisitions are an important element in your overall growth targets? Yes Mark we do have them M-plow [ph] there.
We're pretty far down the road on developing our strategy which included working with all the business units to identify the type of companies we want to own in the regions and geographies.
As I said before we like to think we can start moving the revenue ball from 70-30 to 50-50 global.
So we’re going to be thinking and looking in Latin America and the western side of the continent that we really don't participate in per say.
In Europe clearly looking at eastern and central Europe as a priority healthcare anywhere and we’ve got things percolating is a better term for it.
Again like we’ve said we really don't want to be in processes.
The multiples are pretty high right now.
What we’re trying to do is find organizations that we want to own and get to know the ownership family if its private and see if we can strike up a conversation about helping them with their succession plan or exit strategy.
So I would say it's going quite well Mark.
Okay and then Mike if I could just as a follow-on to that just from what you’ve said it doesn’t sound like the strength in the dollar the weakness in some of these emerging market currencies this is really going to change your pace or your strategy in terms of looking at acquisitions.
Is that right? That is correct.
But the other side of it though as we -- in some of these emerging markets it's also looking at countries that have higher growth rates.
You look at eastern central Europe those growth rates in the food categories are 5% plus type growth into the foreseeable future.
And we just feel that would be -- other drivers is that -- we’re targeting countries where geographies that are going to grow a lot faster than a U.S.
economy is.
And we’ll take our next question from Adam Josephson from KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Mike one more on capital allocation.
How would you compare the attractiveness of buybacks and M&amp;A at the moment particularly given what you just said about multiples being rather high? Our objective right now is we want to be able to get a 15% return on invested capital on an acquisition.
And as you guys -- anybody knows that's not an easy task when you're paying 9 10 times EBITDA for an acquisition.
So we’re very balanced on the attractiveness of an acquisition.
We have got to be very confident that we’ve got the synergies be it cost take outs consolidations SG&amp;A take outs or revenue synergies to make that investment versus a share repurchase.
Thanks Mike and just one on the flat film line that you’ve been building.
I know its early days but can you give us any sense as to what volume and/or revenue contribution you might expect from those lines next year and as well as what kind of capital you’ve put into those lines and are planning to put into those lines? Adam we’ve got three lines in.
Okay we line in Swansea wales.
We have a line in Pauls Valley and we have a line going in here into Wisconsin.
That's what we’ve invested in thus far.
We have two others on the back burner that we have not yet pulled the trigger on.
We are linked with a customer and their ramp-up in the use of that flat film and at this point that's all I will say about that flat film market and where we see that headed.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll take a question from George Staphos from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Just want to follow-up on our earlier discussion on volumes and the outlook.
So -- recognizing that you are confident of volume outlook bill for next year in U.S.
Packaging I was curious again what your review kind of revealed in terms of why you should be confident in the outlook on volumes and some of the organizational changes that you made how does that help you? So that's question number one.
Question number two just more of a housekeeping question.
If I look at the P&amp;L versus the segment reporting and the restructuring and other item I think it's like $4.6 million in P&amp;L it's something under $10 million in the segment.
Just what caused that variance Mike? Thank you.
George what gives us the confidence in the volume is the pipeline.
We do an exhaustive review of the global pipeline not just of the U.S.
Packaging pipeline of where the projects stand in the stage gate process.
Are they a P1 or are they a P4? Are risks retired are risks not retired? And as we look at that when those projects are going to be completed and if you go back to our whole premise around our stage gate process it starts and ends with a customer.
So we don't develop unless as a customer tied to it all the way through.
We feel very good about that and very good about what’s going to launched in the upcoming months and quarters.
Not just in U.S.
but also global.
And as to your question on restructuring there is really three elements of the restructuring this quarter.
$1.4 million associated with facility closure in the medical division and about a $0.5 million associated with acquisition related cost on M-Plow [ph].
Those are included in the segment.
There is a $2.7 million charge that was not included in segment and reported as corporate and that's for identification obligation related to a past acquisition.
It's a one-time non-recurring charge.
And we’ll take our next question from Scott Gaffner of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Mike just quick question on the CapEx spend for 2015.
As you sort of move through the year sounds like innovation spending maybe has moved more towards 2016 and some of the cost reduction on the existing business is taken over.
Has there been any shift in the mix on CapEx innovation versus cost reduction on some of the existing business? There is really been no shift.
If you think about how to think about it about $60 million of our spend is environmental health and maintenance and I would say it's 50-50 split above there between innovation and recapitalization.
Recapitalization is heavier in U.S.
Packaging.
Just from the standpoint that's where the assets really need to be recapitalized.
And as Bill kind of pointed out a big part of our global strategy is the migration of capabilities and higher barrier products from the U.S.
to those emerging markets as packaging sophistication increases.
Okay.
And just on the working capital if I recall correct 4Q of last year there was some noted confusion as to why working capital built the way it did.
Obviously you made some change in the payment terms to get towards industry standards but have you figured out -- it seems like you have the -- what the issue was with working capital within the last year? Just trying to figure out how of much this is just a recapture of that issue versus some of these better payment terms? I think we figured out we -- first of all Scott I just don't think we’re -- we were really focused on cash flow and we’re now focused on cash flow.
Last year in Q4 the number was $56 million.
As we've given you the guidance I would expect that to be $90 million plus next year.
So we will continue to get improvements.
And we’ll continue into ’16.
I think we've made a lot of progress on terms with suppliers.
We’ve done a good job with the big ones and now as we go in the Q4 and Q1 we’re focused on kind of the next tier of vendors to kind of get those terms improved.
From an inventory side I think we’ve done a nice job of getting inventory back to what we want it to be but clearly the big progress still going to be linked to our rollout of supply chain optimization management and demand forecasting which those investments are being made right now and I would expect that to start realizing second half of ’16 into ’17 when we complete our ERP implementation in U.S.
packaging.
And we’ll take our next question from Alex Ovshey from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Just one for you.
The lower resin price environment is that having any positive or negative impact on the competitive dynamics in the business? No.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll take another question from Adam Josephson.
Your line is open.
Thanks a lot and thanks for taking my follow-up.
Mike one more on working capital.
It’s been a $95 million source year-to-date.
Assuming it ends up being a $150 million which is exactly what the drag was last year you’d be a 550 of operating cash flow this year which is your 2019 target if I’m not mistaken.
Is there any reason to think that the long-term target is particularly conservative? No.
First of all I don’t think I wouldn’t read anything into it -- it’s going to be 550.
We’re just get back to normalized.
When Bill makes that 550 comment think about it our EBITDA will have grown substantially as a contribution to that.
So I would think in terms of -- we’re targeting get to primary working capital to be 14% of net sales and then the additional growth will come from our improvements in EBITDA as we continue to drive our performance.
And currently there are no further questions in the queue.
Thank you Destiny.
Thank you all for joining us today.
This concludes our conference call.
I do want to thank everyone for their participation.
Your conference call has concluded.
You may disconnect at any time.
Good day and welcome to the Bemis Company Hosted Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Erin Winters.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter 2015 conference call.
Today is January 28 2016.
After today's call a replay will be available on our website bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are Bemis Company's President and Chief Executive Officer Bill Austen our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mike Clauer and our Vice President and Controller Jerry Krempa.
Following Bill and Mike's comments on our business and outlook we will answer any questions you have.
However in order to allow everyone the opportunity to participate we do ask that you limit yourself to one question at a time with a related follow-up and then fall back into the queue for any additional question.
At this time I'll direct you to our website bemis.com under the Investor Relations tab where you'll find our press release and supplemental schedule.
In Mike's discussion of the financials he'll specifically be referring to page five of the supplemental schedule.
On today's call we will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures as we talk about our performance.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures that we consider most comparable can be found in the press release and supplemental schedules on our website.
And finally a reminder that statements regarding future performance of the company made during this call are forward-looking and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors.
Please refer to Bemis Company's regular SEC filings including the most recently filed form 10-K to review these risk factors.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill Austen.
Thank you Erin and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased with the strong performance Bemis delivered in 2015.
We exceeded my expectations and made great progress toward our long-term financial objectives.
I couldn't be more proud of the effort and execution demonstrated by our global team throughout 2015.
Looking at the full year.
We achieved record adjusted earnings per share of $2.55 almost an 11% increase over last year despite currency translation headwinds of $0.16 per share.
We increased gross profit margins 170 basis points over the last year driven by productivity improvements from our asset recapitalization program mix benefits from our focus on innovation and strong operational performance across the entire company.
We increased operating profit return on sales in our U.S.
Packaging segment to 14.3% a 140 basis points point increase over the prior year reflecting great progress toward our long-term goal of 15% to 18% in this segment.
We increased adjusted operating profit return on sales in our Global Packaging segment to 8.8% a 120 basis point increase over the prior year and above pace toward our goal of double-digit returns in this segment over the three year to give year horizon.
We increased ROIC to 10.5% versus 9.7% one year ago.
We generated $552 million of operating cash flow more than doubling last year's performance in this area.
An example of the focus discipline accountability and urgency we are driving throughout the company.
We acquired the rigid plastic operation of Emplal in Brazil during December a step toward our long term inorganic growth targets.
We continued to focus on innovation as reflected in our product vitality measure which continued at 15% this year in line with our strategy and expectations.
We invested $219 million in capital to expand and improve our business positioning us well for additional margin expansion in 2016 and we returned value to shareholders through our 32 annual dividend increase and through the repurchase of 3.3 million shares of stock.
We have initiated change and improved performance this year at Bemis.
We will continue to execute our strategy of accelerating growth focusing innovation and continuously improving all we do to deliver continued return on sales and ROIC improvement during 2016.
I'll now turn the call over to Mike to discuss details of our 2015 financial performance and 2016 guidance.
Then I'll come back to discuss my view of priorities as we enter 2016.
Mike? Thanks Bill and good morning.
We reported adjusted earnings of $0.60 per share for the fourth quarter and $2.55 for the full year of 2015 a 5.3% increase over the prior fourth quarter and 10.9% increase over the prior year.
This includes overcoming a currency translation headwind of approximately $0.04 per share during the fourth quarter and $0.16 per share for the full year primarily driven by currencies in Latin America that devalued against the dollar.
We delivered solid improvement in gross margins for the full-year 2015 at 21.5% compares to 19.8% in the prior year.
This improvement was driven by the benefits of our asset recapitalization program in increasing the margin profile of our existing business and by improved price mix as we execute our strategy to sell a higher portion of sophisticated packages.
I will comment next on each reportable segment followed by overall company performance and then wrap up with guidance for 2016.
First U.S.
Packaging following page five of the supplemental schedules posted on our website sales dollars in our U.S.
segment declined by 4% for the full year 2015.
Excluding the impact of the 2014 Paper Packaging divestiture net sales decreased 2.7%.
Overall unit volumes were down approximately 2% for the full year 2015 as compared to 2014.
As discussed throughout the year about two-thirds of this unit volume decline was driven by our pricing decision to exit some low-margin bottled water overwrap business and the remainder was driven by a select customer who lost share with their beverage pouches at the retail level.
Specific to Q4 volume was up 2% better than previous quarters in 2015.
However a single quarter doesn't form a trend and the bottled water overwrap and beverage pouch comps won't fully lapse until Q2 of 2016.
Aside from volume net sales in U.S.
Packaging were impacted by contractual price reductions to pass-through lower raw material cost throughout the year which for all intents and purposes is neutral to profit.
Partially offset by favorable mix in line with our strategy.
U.S.
Packaging operating profit return on sales for 2015 was 14.3% compared to 13.1% the prior year great progress towards our goals of 15% to 18% over our strategic horizon.
This improvement was driven by operational efficiency from our asset recapitalization programs favorable sales mix and continued diligence in controlling cost.
Moving to our Global Packaging segment.
Net sales for 2015 were down 10.7% currency translation reduced sales by 18.2% driven by currencies in Latin America that significantly devalued throughout the year.
The December acquisition of Emplal contributed 0.
3% increase when included in full year net sales excluding the impact of currencies and acquisition our global business delivered strong organic growth of 7.2% in 2015 driven fully by positive sales price and mix.
Overall Global Packaging units were flat during 2015.
Some regional details.
As expected unit volumes were up single-digits in Europe Asia and healthcare excluding Latin American healthcare products.
Overall unit volume decreased in Latin America were result of a tough economic environment in the region.
However even in Latin America we saw positive mix from increased sales of high barrier packages particularly for meat and other proteins.
We are pleased with the success we continue to have globally and growing sales of this sophisticated packaging.
Global Packaging operating profit return on sales for 2015 was 8.8% compared to 7.6% the prior year on pace towards that goal of a 10% plus over our strategic horizon.
Higher returns in Global Packaging were a result of improved price mix from sales of meat and cheese dairy liquid and also Healthcare Packaging.
Currency translation negatively impacted operating profit by $24 million for the year or about $0.16 a share of the total company's earnings.
This negative impact is related primarily to translation of profits in Brazil to the U.S.
dollar compared to the prior full-year.
Currency was a challenge in 2015 but I'm pleased with our performance in local currency where we are improving returns and growing sales of sophisticated packaging.
Now on to consolidated Bemis.
Total Bemis Company SG&amp;A expense for the full year was $420 million basically flat with last year.
We continue to be focused on implementing discipline and accountability to keep SG&amp;A dollars flat over our long-term.
Research and development expense for the full year was $44 million flat with the prior year.
We see this as the appropriate level to support new product innovation and commercialization.
The income tax rate for 2015 was 33.6% in line with our expectations.
We anticipate the tax rate for 2016 to be slightly above 33%.
Cash flow from operations for the full-year 2015 totaled $552 million above my expectation of $500 million and a vast improvement over the $248 million last year.
Most of our improvement year-over-year came from our sharp focus on working capital which was a use of cash in 2014 but a strong source of cash in 2015 as we extended payable terms and managed inventory levels well.
I also recognize that the mathematical flow through of lower raw material cost during 2015 bolstered our cash flow by approximately $20 million to $25 million.
As you may recall on Investor Day we shared our targets to reduce primary working capital as a percentage of sales to the 14% to 16% range by the end of 2016 which equated to taking out approximately $140 million of primary working capital throughout 2015 and 2016.
During 2015 we realized approximately $110 million of this improvement primarily driven by improved payment terms with our vendors.
Capital expenditures in 2015 were $219 million in line with our expectations.
Incremental spend in 2015 funded our asset recapitalization program as well as expansions to support projected growth.
Look next at return on invested capital.
Our goal is to improve this metric year-over-year toward our long-term goal of being in the upper quartile of our peer group.
In 2015 ROIC increased to 10.5% compared to 9.7% in 2014.
This improvement is driven by sound capital investments that meet or beat our 15% ROIC hurdle rate over a five-year period and our improvements in working capital.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased 1 million shares for a total of $45.8 million for the full year 2015 we purchased a total of 3.3 million shares for $150.1 million.
At December 31 the remaining board authorization for share repurchase was 3.4 million shares.
Now turning to guidance.
Established adjusted EPS range for 2016 of $2.68 to $2.83 which is in line with our long-term targeted strategy to increase EPS by 10% annually on a currency neutral basis.
Currency translation will continue to challenge us in 2016.
Our guidance assumes foreign currencies remain at current levels specifically since we have a significant business in Latin America I will mention that the mid-point of our guidance assumes the Brazil real at 4.1 to the U.S.
dollar.
With this assumption we have naturally accounted for a $0.10 per share impact from the currency in our 2016 guidance versus 2015 actuals.
Specific to the Brazil reais the majority of this headwind will occur in the first two quarters of 2016.
Next I will discuss a few unique items that we have considered in our EPS guidance range.
First the benefit of our acquisition of Emplal our EPS guidance range includes approximately $0.02 to $0.03 from our recently acquired business in Brazil dependent on timing of synergy impacts.
In these early stages after the December acquisition we are developing our execution plan.
We have identified $7 million to $8 million of synergies in the form of SG&amp;A procurement and plant and equipment rationalizations.
We will start implementing these in 2016 and fully realize the benefits in 2017.
Second the benefit of our healthcare expansion.
Our EPS guidance range includes about $0.03 per share related to the expansion of our healthcare operations in Wisconsin.
Based on our successful completion of the project in December we fully realize the expected 200 basis point margin improvement in our U.S.
healthcare business during 2016.
We're pleased to start out the year with this momentum that will elevate our industry-leading quality in the Healthcare Packaging space.
Third interest expense.
Our EPS guidance range includes a headwind of approximately $6 million from interest expense as a result of generally higher interest rates following the forward curve.
The remaining year-over-year increase in EPS reflects the improvement that will result as we continue to see margin benefits from our asset recapitalization program.
And we continue to execute our strategy to sell more higher margin products while controlling cost.
Where we are in the EPS range of $2.68 to $2.83 will depend on further movement of currencies the successful commercialization of new products and volumes in our business.
Similar to history you continue to expect second quarters and third quarters to be seasonally stronger while the first quarters and the fourth quarters are typically lighter.
An additional unique comp to recall is that the first quarter of 2015 we had a one-time $3 million tailwind from resin driven by the abnormal decrease in resin prices for four consecutive months during that timeframe.
Turning to capital expenditure guidance for 2016 we continue to expect to spend $200 million per year of this about $60 million is for maintenance and safety at our 60 plants around the world.
That leaves approximately $140 million which we target roughly half for growth projects to support new high-barrier innovative applications and the other half for asset recapitalizations that support all of our end markets including those that are less differentiated.
And finally we have established 2016 guidance for cash from operations in the range of $450 million to $500 million.
As I mentioned earlier at Investor Day we committed to taking out approximately $140 million of primary working capital by the end of 2016.
While we realized approximately $110 million of this in 2015 I expect to see another $50 million to $75 million of working capital takeout take out during 2016 primarily from global payment terms improving.
This will drive us to the low-end of our target primary working cap percentage of net sales range of 14% to 16%.
I anticipate normal seasonality in cash flow throughout the year with cash from operations lighter in the first quarter and then building from there.
In summary I remain confident in our business and in our ability to further improve financial performance to create long-term shareholder value.
With that I will turn the call back to Bill for his comments on 2016.
Thanks Mike.
As I look to 2016 a few items are key to our continued financial performance.
First we must continue to execute on our asset recapitalization projects in the U.S.
that are delivering margin improvement.
We started this initiative in 2014 when we increased our capital spend to D&amp;A levels.
Our asset recapitalization support all of our end markets including those that are less differentiated.
My view is that there's no such thing as bad business.
It's simply up to us to find ways to improve the margin profile of products where there's a market price or heavy competition such as candy bar wrappers or bread bags.
Our asset recapitalization of printing presses and slitters does just that.
Helps us be more efficient in producing products that are less differentiated.
I am pleased with the margin and ROIC impact these recapitalizations have had thus far and in my view it is critical that we continue executing these projects that meet and/or beat our 15% ROIC hurdle rate during the next couple of years.
Not only do these recapitalizations help increase our margin profile but they also help us maintain unit volumes in less differentiated products.
Second during 2016 we will continue to focus our innovation efforts and commercialize new products across our entire business to spur growth.
Our innovation pipeline of new products is strong and includes a wide variety of new packaging launches everything from aseptic bulk liquid packaging for fruits and vegetables to skin film for fresh meat in Europe to protective films used in the electronics industry in Asia to high barrier film for transdermal patches.
Most of our new innovations serve developed markets around the world.
But we'll also continue to share our existing innovations globally in Latin America and Asia.
Our existing packaging technology is new to these developing regions where we continue to see the demand for more sophisticated packaging.
A couple of great examples of global technology sharing: one retortable films technology that we developed in Asia has now transferred to Latin America for local manufacture and sale of tuna packaging.
And two hard-to-hold liquid technology developed in U.S.
is now being used in Latin America to package motor oil.
We are well positioned to meet the growing needs and packaging demands in these evolving economies.
And we are working cohesively across the globe to leverage our technologies but I believe we can drive this effort harder.
Innovation is important to our growth.
And I'm confident in our process and plans to execute in 2016.
Turning for a minute to my view on growth in 2016.
In North America I anticipate market demand for packaged foods to be flat to slightly down.
I expect our business to grow above this at approximately 1% driven by new innovations that grow our high-technology business and by our asset recapitalization program that will help us maintain overall volumes in our less differentiated product lines.
These two in combination will deliver overall unit volume growth in our U.S.
business.
Based on my current view I would anticipate volumes in the second half of 2016 to be slightly better than the first half of the year.
In our global business I expect us to grow in Europe Asia and our healthcare business at approximately 4%.
In Latin America where the environment remains tough I expect us to grow slightly in 2016.
Circling back to the key items of our success in 2015 the final piece is our relentless pursuit of continuous improvement in all we do.
Here are just a few examples.
We will continue to manage SG&amp;A cost targeting flat dollars over our long-term planning horizon.
We will continue to find ways to improve our operations such that our cost takeout programs overcome annual inflation.
We will continue to control and decrease working capital globally in the form of inventory reductions and increased payable terms all in support of generating cash.
We will continue with the rigor and accountability in our capital expansions including finding new opportunities and executing our existing projects to plan.
I am confident as we begin 2016.
Our focus on customers is more intense than ever when we help our customers succeed we succeed.
Our culture continues to evolve toward high performance.
We have momentum from our success in 2015 and we have high expectations of ourselves.
And we will continue to aggressively execute our strategy in 2016 to increase earnings and create shareholder value.
With that I'll turn the call over for questions.
Thank you.
The first question comes from Anthony Pettinari of Citi.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Just to clarify on the volume outlook in 2016 I think you said U.S.
volumes would be up 1% and maybe better in the second half than the first half and you referenced I guess 2Q is when a specific customer loss was lapped.
Is that correct? And then I mean for the first quarter could volume still be flattish or negative or just how do you think about the trajectory of that volume growth in the U.S.
as you kind of go through 2016? Hi Anthony this is Bill.
The way you described it is correct.
What you heard on the call was correct.
And yes we see first quarter could be flat because we still have not lapped some of the loss business if you will.
So we see second half we have much better visibility much into our innovation pipeline the commercialization of products that are going to hit in the second half is going to drive those volume increases higher in the second half than the first half once we lap some of that business that was lost in the first half of 2015.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Great that's helpful.
And then just thinking about capital allocation for 2016.
Obviously you bought back a little bit more stock how do you think about the M&amp;A environment versus share repurchases and are there other opportunities like Emplal and with valuations coming down especially in emerging markets.
So are you seeing – how are you seeing that pipeline? Anthony this is Mike.
I mean as we've stated in the past we're not going to de lever the company.
So if there is no acquisitions available we would buy back stock.
There are a few things we're looking at right now nothing is eminent but I feel like we've got a pretty nice pipeline being developed and that's what I have to say for now.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Ghansham Panjabi of Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi good morning.
This is actually Matt Krueger sitting in for Ghansham.
How are you guys doing today? Doing well.
Thank you.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
And then my first question is on the Global Packaging organic results can you break those out by volumes versus pricing both as a whole and then kind of by region in terms of Europe healthcare Latin America and then Asia? I got it.
You got it Bill? Yes.
If you're talking about 2015 organic growth was 7.2% price mix was 7.5% so volume was flat in 2015.
Remember that Latin America was down significantly so the rest of the business performed really well that's how it shaped up for 2015.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
That's helpful.
I'm sorry..
Go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> What was that? As Bill mentioned in his comments you asked about regional detail and if you look at the year 2015 in terms of unit volumes we saw a good growth in Latin America – excuse me in Asia and Europe in our healthcare business and Latin America given the tough environment there was just a piece that was down a bit.
Yeah.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then kind of moving to pricing within the marketplace what are you guys seeing in terms of competition given the customer consolidation and then lower raw material costs excluding the contractual pass-throughs.
Has price remained pretty stable? This has always been a ultra-competitive environment and the way that we've built our model you may or may not be familiar with but we built our model such that we don't see volatility we try to minimize the volatility in our earnings based on what's happening with raw materials.
So it's always been a competitive environment and the recapitalization effort that we've going on in the company is helping us to be much more competitive in some of the less differentiated product lines at current market prices.
Thank you.
The next question comes from comes from Scott Gaffner of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Scott.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey Bill.
Just had a question.
So you said the volumes in the U.S.
were up 2% in the fourth quarter and you were quick to note – not to call that a trend obviously that – after that came the 1% U.S.
volume guidance for 2016.
So was there something in the fourth quarter that was out of the ordinary like a product launch or something that really led to that accelerating organic growth in the second quarter – sorry; in the fourth quarter that doesn't repeat again in 2016? We're quick to point out it's not a trend.
The fourth quarter is always a very fluid quarter.
Yeah the holidays you have customers that have launched products which has taken off on shelf do they have promotions do they not have promotions.
So fourth quarter is kind of a – it's not a good one to look at to determine what it looks like going forward.
So we performed well in Q4 more so in the less differentiated product lines than in the core product line.
So we got some nice movement in Q4 but it's hard to say that Q4 is a good quarter to look at for what a trend is going to established.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And the other question then is your year end to the targets you put out 2015 to 2019 organic growth in 2015 was below that the targets you were looking for and 2016 looks like it could be the same.
Realizing that's as much a function of the macro environment as it is your ability to push organic growth higher I mean are you thinking about managing the business in any different way are you putting more money into the recapitalization of the equipment versus some of these growth projects? I mean how are you – how has the plan changed on the edge with the slower organic growth? Scott we haven't changed our plan.
We're sticking with the plan.
We're sticking with our strategy.
We're seeing that as – we're seeing that gain a lot of traction.
We're going to continue as Mike said to invest in the recapitalization programs and we're still funding our R&amp;D levels at the same levels as we did this past year.
Some of the things that we see we see commercializations coming on stream in the latter part of this year which are very encouraging.
And we think our plan is working we see our strategy working and we're seeing it in our results.
So I'm confident that what we presented on the Investor Day a year ago we're sticking with it and we're driving hard to maintain it.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Chris Manuel of Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
A couple of questions for you...
Good morning.
If I could I wanted to ask a little bit about the Emplal acquisition.
I think from the time you first announced it you talked about 2014 revenues that were $75 million and then $58 million in 2015 as you got it closed.
I'm sure a good slug of that's currency but it would seem as though the business kind of fell off a little bit 2014 to 2015.
Maybe what's the trajectory like as you look forward to 2016 or how we think about that? Okay.
This is Mike Chris.
You're correct it's all a result of the translation.
The real value of the revenue acquired hasn't changed at all.
So the business is still quite some strong.
The way I'm thinking about it right now we're still at that – at the current exchange rate we'd still be at $53 million to $55 million of sales associated with Emplal.
We also mentioned we're really embarking on starting our integration and we feel really good about the synergies and our ability to deliver them.
Feel very confident that all activities will be implemented in 2016 and we'll see the full benefit in 2017.
I did have one follow-up regarding your new center there in Neenah.
I think you've now had it a quarter or two in operation.
Can you give us any – maybe build some updates or color on how customer activity has been coming through there? How response has been? Do you think it's helping you win some new business et cetera? Kind of us give us a gauge as to how efficacy of the center is perhaps.
Yes.
The center is gaining great – it has gained great traction with the customer base.
We've had many many many customers.
We have multiple customers in on a daily basis.
We've had close to probably 100 ideation sessions thus far.
And we're driving new ideas and new thoughts for different types of packaging out of that location not just for the United States but the interesting thing is it's gaining traction with our international customer base as well.
So people are coming from all over the globe to use our equipment use our labs use our process technologies to develop new packaging ideas.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chip Dillon of Vertical.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon or morning still there.
First question has to do with the volumes in the global segment overall.
You mentioned that for the year the volumes were flat but could you tell us what the fourth quarter was? The fourth quarter unit volumes overall in global were down about 2% and trend wise pretty must just the same concept as the full year meaning LatAm slightly tough and the rest of the regions of the world were doing well or flat.
Got you.
And obviously if we look at that number that means that volume I'm sorry the price and mix were up a huge I mean 9.5%.
How should we think as we – you mentioned next year probably the segment overall I don't know if you said but it sounds to me it will be maybe flat to up a little bit probably up a little bit because Europe is up 4% and LatAm is up slightly.
But what kind of progression should we expect on that price mix aspect? Well if you look at the 2015 number that you just quoted probably half of that came from inflation just and primarily in the Latin American companies is just higher cost pass-through and the other half was price mix.
So we've made very good progress on price mix and our guidance for 2016 expects that same level of performance.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Frederick Searby of Dunbar Investment Partners.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Congratulations on the cash flow it was exceptionally strong.
I'm not sure you've delineated this but you hinted at it.
How much was structural changes versus resin and raw mats being weak and the improvement in the working capital.
And if most of that...
Yeah.
Okay.
And if most of that's structural why are you guiding down even though you are still growing free cash flow? I mean it was a massive number.
And then just secondly if you could give us some color on what the trends are right now in Latin America? You managed through a fairly apocalyptic environment in Brazil and also it's not as relevant to you but Argentina with the devaluation and things that have gone on in Latin America this year.
Can you just talk about trends right now you've been seeing in the last couple of months given how well you've handled what's been a very very challenging environment? Okay.
I'll start first with your questions on cash flow.
The structural improvement was about $110 million and that was really driven by focusing on vendor terms and getting back to what we perceive – what we expect is reasonable terms with our vendors.
The benefit we got from lower resin cost was about $20 million to $25 million.
So I think we've made a really good overall progress.
As far as guiding down I think what I would probably say is if you think about the mid-point of our EPS guidance that would represent about $420 million of operating cash flow if working capital was not a source or a use of cash.
So being at that $400 million-$500 million we continue to go after some additional structural improvements that I commented would be $50 million to $75 million.
And Bill do you want to ...
Yeah.
Frederick this is Bill Austen.
I'll give you some color on the Latin American environment.
It's a difficult environment it's a high inflation.
However our customer base is continuing to innovate and want new products and launch new products and remember we are not building automobiles and we are not building white goods or electronics.
We provide packaging for everyday products that people use in their households.
So while maybe some package architecture gets smaller to hit a smaller price point that allows us to innovate and develop a new product for them around the smaller size different print different medium and we're bringing in technologies from other parts of the world and introducing it to our Latin American customers who now want new product and new product innovation.
So we continue to see our core customers wanting innovation wanting new products developed and launching new products.
So we are managing our way through this environment the team down there is doing a great job of staying ahead of inflation continuing to push on price and continuing to innovate with product technologies that we're bringing in from other parts of the world.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Mark Wilde of BMO.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Bill Mike Erin.
Good morning.
Good morning Mark.
I wondered Mike could you just update us on the acquisition process.
Right now I think the focus over the last several quarters has been mainly the Pacific side of Latin America and maybe Central Europe.
So if you could maybe talk about that a little bit? And also just kind of whether that slowdown in Latin America has affected sort of valuation expectations? Yeah.
I could I mean the update is that we continue to be more focused on businesses and assets that would benefit our Global Packaging business.
I would say our pipeline if everybody remembers we're not as interested in being involved in processes we are more interested in getting to know companies and having a conversation with them.
I would tell you we shifted from kind of creating a pipeline to actually having one where it's more active as far as relationships being created meetings dinners et cetera.
So that's my update right now and again I'd say there's nothing out there that would be a transformational typed acquisition these companies tend to still be at that $50 million – $100 million to maybe $450 million $500 million of revenue.
Okay.
And any thoughts on valuation Mike? When I like – first of all Mark I know my valuation I mean we're trading at 9.2 times EBITDA so I'm not going to pay more than that.
I look at Emplal we had a – we were lower than what we're trading at and that's kind of how we think about it as it relates to businesses that would be more associated with food clearly as we're looking at healthcare type assets those would have much higher multiple because they got much higher growth projections.
But I'm still thinking for the food side of the business kind of 8 times we could get it done in that range depending on synergies.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Philip Ng of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys nice to see volumes up nicely in the U.S.
but if I do my back of envelop math it would imply price was down significant I know it's not a P&amp;L impact from a EBIT end point but was most of that step down a function of negative mix from the recap or just the raw material pass-throughs? And net-net when you go to 2016 you expect top line to be actually up with pricing down? Yeah.
This is Mike.
I don't if you are asking Q4 or full year but in Q4 a lot of the actually the whole revenue down is a result of the resin pass-through.
And then volume was up 2% and price mix was down 1.6% so and that is completely related to this mix of the business.
We just sold more less differentiated packaging in Q4.
Okay.
I think that concerns us at all.
Okay.
And then I guess you noted packaged food demand for this year in the U.S.
you're expecting to be flat to down.
I'm just curious have you seen any changes in your customer order patterns with the stock market obviously concerned about potentially a recession.
I just wanted to get your thoughts in terms of how your customers are behaving? Thanks.
Phil this is Bill.
No we haven't seen any changes in our customers ordering patterns.
Not as we went out of Q4 and not as we've been now in the Q1 for several weeks.
We haven't seen any changes in order patterns.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Adam Josephson of KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks a lot.
Good morning everyone.
Mike one resin I think you said there was a $3 million earnings benefit for the full year.
Correct me if I'm wrong but I thought it was $3 million benefit in the first quarter alone.
If I'm wrong about that was it neutral in the later three quarters even though polyethylene prices fell in both the third quarter and the fourth quarter? And just lastly along those lines do you expect a comparable resin benefit in 2016 given that polyethylene prices continue to decline? First of all you're correct it was a $3 million benefit for the full year of 2015 that all happened in Q1.
And that was really driven by a very unusual exceptional period where resin fell pretty significantly for four months in a row.
We did not get any benefit at all in two three or four.
We're not anticipating any benefit or determent in 2016 other than we're comping up against the favorable tailwind in Q1 last year.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks Mike.
Just one on price mix I know you said it was – in the U.S.
it was a negative I think 1.6 and in previous quarters it had been a positive and you're talking about it being a positive as you get rid of this lower margin business and sell more value added products and now it was down in the fourth quarter and you're saying don't worry about that.
So can you just help us with why it would be kind of more relevant in the first three quarters than it was in the fourth quarter? I think the best way to think about it is this.
We just sold a lot more less differentiated product which would just normally have a lower margin.
So when you're calculating your price mix on your total business it would trend down.
For the full year our price mix for U.S.
Packaging was up 2%.
And that – those are the type of expectations we have of our business going forward.
As I said earlier Adam Q4 is not a good quarter to use because there's so many there's a lot of moving parts from a customer's perspective where they're adding inventory running inventories down do they promotions going out did the promotion that they have at the end cap take off or not? So there's a lot of things that move around in the fourth quarter due to the holidays that are in there as well as customer order patterns take patterns if you will from their end markets.
So tough to use fourth quarter as a trend setter.
Thank you.
The next question comes from George Staphos of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Hi everyone good morning good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my questions and congratulations on the progress so far.
I guess first question I had Bill could you remind us why you think that you can keep R&amp;D at around whatever you said $44 million so while keeping up innovation? I recognize some of this related to the discipline around stage gating and the like but could you go through some of the color there? What your learnings have been so far in 2015 about your ability to get leverage off your R&amp;D related innovation? Because obviously innovation is very important in terms of – what you want to do in terms of volume and price mix longer term.
Yeah.
George you're absolutely right.
The rigor and accountability of that stage-gate has driven into our R&amp;D organization allows us to move resources quicker to new projects as a project gets cancelled or walked away from partway through stage-gate because a customer doesn't want to implement it they don't see there is going to be any market traction.
So we're able to redeploy resources much faster than we ever have before.
The other part of that goes to our -- this whole concept of a global operation company where we can move technology from region A to region B much faster because we now have an R&amp;D organization in our regions that's headed up by a Vice President of Research and Development that's connected back to the innovation center.
So that as they see an emerging trend for instance duck part packaging becoming hygienic in China we can move that technology from Europe immediately to China.
We have the assets in China that can produce it and we can produce it quickly and meet the customers' demand very quickly.
So we got a network and it's getting much much better and we're able to deploy those resources and technologies around the world much faster with the existing base that we have.
Okay.
Appreciate the thoughts there.
And then I want to take one more question in terms of this turn on price mix so as we think about this coming year or the year that we're in right now if I heard you correctly I thought you said price mix would be relatively flat other than the comparison that's offered in the first quarter.
Or is that purely a resin comment and you'd expect price mix to be up this year? And if you did mention that what's the figure we should be at least thinking about as we're modeling you for 2016? Thank you.
This is Mike George.
I think the way to think about it is our price mix unlike U.S.
Packaging was up 2% in 2015 that's a good number at the midpoint of our guidance to use for 2016.
And could reference on the first half is more to do with – we're still going to live with lapping the bottle water overwrap and the Capri Sun (48:33) that really started occurring in Q1 and Q2 next year or so.
Once we can kind of get over those comps which is as you know is a lot of volume low calorie – I think Bill's comment was more that we would expect to see more positive volume growth in the second half.
And the same on global.
I mean we had call it 3.5% to 4% price mix without inflation in 2015.
I would not expect to see anything less than that in 2017.
And then if you add in just what we're doing in healthcare you are going to have a much stronger number in Global Packaging.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Arun Viswanathan of RBC.
Please go ahead.
Morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just had a couple quick questions on your outlook for 2016.
Maybe you can just describe how you kind of come to that flat to slightly down for consumer packaging industry.
I understand you guys have the new products and the asset recap but is that more of a macro call or something that your customers are alluding to or what drives that outlook? Arun we triangulated off of a couple of different data points and it's – so it's a much more of a macro view that we look at being flat to down and flat to down 1% for the packaged food environment and our view is is that we'll be flat to up 1% in our U.S.
Packaging business.
Okay.
Great.
And just a little bit more on that.
Is there another period in history where you saw a decline in raw materials and was there any commensurate rebound or increase in demand on consumer packaging or is it mainly to track GDP? My history would say it mainly tracks GDP.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Scott Gaffner of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Just had a couple follow-ups here.
When I look at the margin progression Bill over the last couple of years 2016 looks like you're – I'm sorry: 2015 you're up in about a 100 – over 100 basis points on the margin progression.
You were up maybe similar amount 2013 2014.
Is there the possibility of getting to another 100 basis points of margin improvement in 2016? Good question Scott.
The way we look at it is is that what we said at Investor Day 2015 to 2018 in U.S.
Packaging 10% plus in Global.
We're on that trend.
We're on that slope that we'll be within those ranges that we called out.
Is that 100 basis points? Is it 80 basis points? Is it 70 basis points? Our goal is to push it as fast and as hard as we can.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then Mike in your prepared comments in answer to one other questions I think you mentioned you weren't prepared to de-lever the balance sheet.
What about levering the balance sheet? I'm going to stick with what I have been saying at this point Scott that I'm comfortable with where we are at.
If you noticed our leverage ticked up with the Emplal acquisition and the share repurchase in Q4.
We're going to continue use our free cash flow.
If there's an acquisition available we're going to do it and if there's not we're going to return it to our shareholders.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Chris Manuel of Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hello again.
One is maybe a request for future – the way we present some things going for future and then I do have a second question.
The first request is perhaps because we're all kind of focusing on the organic volume growth particularly in North America and in the other regions and then price mix separate could you perhaps on slide five when you present things maybe break out the difference between price mix and volume so that we can kind of look at those? That's I guess kind of maybe request one.
And then my second question was could you help us with the scope of the kind of business recap where you're going back into some of your existing products and recapping them? How would we think about the scope of revenue that that covers? Is that – are you recapping 10% 20% 30% of your business or how significant maybe is it isolated to certain products in particular where you're seeing the most need to do that how would we think about that process as it goes on and maybe perhaps how long it might go on? Hi Chris this is Bill.
What primarily gets recapitalized our printing presses slitters rewinders pieces of equipment that are old they run slower they create higher waste they don't have the same quality they're low tech.
So and a printing press it doesn't matter whether it runs a high end product or a low end product it runs the same product.
So to try to delineate what side of the business it's on we see the biggest benefit in the less differentiated products than you would see at the – but it benefits both sides of our product portfolio.
But it benefits the high end products and they also benefit the low end products more so the low end products because it's got different price points right so we can generate productivity and efficiency to expand margins at existing market prices.
So there's still a long way we're still in the early innings of this overall recapitalization effort and we're going to continue to stay on this path because it is benefiting the shareholder and it's benefiting the company.
Okay.
Maybe let me come at the question just a little differently see you're spending $140 million on of all of these projects and I think it was about half for some of the recap stuff so $70-ish million is this something that I am guessing it's going to be an ongoing thing it will be – always be looking at it but perhaps being this is the first year so that you're really going at it hard it's a little higher than maybe it would be on a go forward basis.
So perhaps does it maybe stay at $70-ish million the next one two three years and then get dialed back some – really I'm kind of coming at it thinking of what CapEx needs might end up being longer-term? Scott you should think about it – Chris I'm sorry Chris.
Chris you should think about it that we – what we're doing is catching up if you go back to when we bought Alcan all of our energy was on taking capacity out and moving things around and what we weren't doing was investing in new capabilities.
So I would think about 2014 2015 2016 probably 2017 as we're just kind of catching ourselves up.
And then we're going to be back into what I would consider a normal spend where we're still going to be redoing – recapitalizing it just won't be quite at the stepped level as it is today.
And I'd like – the other thing to think about too is just – when we throw out those numbers of half or $70 million that's – those are assets that are going to get a 15% plus ROIC in the future.
And it's pretty easy to do the math on that that it's a big driver of our margin expansion in the future.
Thank you.
The next question comes from George Staphos of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
I actually have three cat and dog types of questions and so I'll ask them in sequence.
That way you don't have to come back to me in queue.
One what have you found out of the consumer studies that you've been underwriting thus far in terms of what it's telling you about consumer behavior and what that means for Bemis going forward.
And then secondly Mike other operating income on the P&amp;L had a $4.7 million versus a lesser number in the year-ago.
What was driving that? And then within free cash flow and working capital it sounds like it's more inventories and payables but are you using any kind of factoring program to drive the working capital improvement as well? Thanks guys and good luck in the quarter.
Thanks George.
George what we're getting out of the consumer information and consumer study work that we're doing.
Is that it's confirming everything that you read in the press today.
It confirms that there is a new buying pattern it confirms that there is new habits of people that natural fresh less ingredients cleaner labels are all what consumers are looking for.
And that's generating a new and smaller food companies that go-to-market through different channels.
So what we're going to be doing is investigating those channels and driving harder to generate traction around the new channels.
And it's – when you see companies like General Mills by a jerky company called the Epic.
It's driving the large CPG companies to do new things and look for different ways to get to market with different products.
And that's what's our – that's what the study work is confirming and it's driving us to go after new channels and new markets.
And George I'll follow-up with you on all those details on that other operating line it's a fair amount of small small items just talk to so I'll take that offline.
And I'll answer your last question on cash flow you kind of – our real focus had been in 2015 going after improving payable terms with our vendors we really didn't use any as you refer to factoring programs.
We are going to in 2016 we have implemented a supplier financing program that we will make available to our kind of next set of suppliers that we're going to be working with and that in essence allows them to determine how quickly so – I may give you an example if we make our terms net 65 they can decide it if they want to take it earlier and that – so that will be a big part of our progress.
And then on the AR side there are supplier financing programs that put in place all the time by our customers.
We participated in them but we generally do not take the cash early from that reason of the factoring.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time please continue.
Thank you operator.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
This concludes our conference call.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference call for today.
You may now disconnect your line and have a great day.