Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the First Quarter Boyd Gaming Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name in Conselley and I will be your facilitator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Mr.
Josh Hirsberg CFO.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone.
And welcome to our first quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call this morning are Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Paul Chakmak our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Our comments today will include statements relating to our estimated future results including among others the financial outlook for the company our expansion and development projects and other market and business and property trends that are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of today's date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those noted in our earnings release our periodic reports and our other filings with the SEC.
During our call today we will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
For a complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the Investors section of our website at boydgaming.com.
Finally as a reminder we are broadcasting this call on our website at boydgaming.com and streetevents.com.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Keith Smith our President and CEO.
Keith? Thanks Josh.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us this morning.
Our first quarter results were very encouraging from an operating perspective.
Despite the difficult comparisons to last year's first quarter our wholly-owned business showed year-over-year quarterly EBITDA growth for the first time since the recession began.
Of our 13 major wholly-owned properties eight posted year-over-year growth in the first quarter compared to just 2 in the first quarter of 2010.
On a regional basis we saw growth accelerate in the Midwest and South region.
We returned to positive comparisons in Downtown Las Vegas and we held a year-over-year EBITDA GAAP steady in the Las Vegas Locals region.
We were especially encouraged by our March results when 11 of our 13 major wholly-owned properties reported increases from March of 2010 including all 7 of our major Las Vegas properties.
Our wholly-owned EBITDA was up in the low-double digits for March.
The second quarter is off to a good start as well as our properties reported solid results in April.
Our results for the first 4 months of this year give us confidence that we have reached a turning point.
Based on these results we expect to continue seeing year-over-year growth in our wholly-owned business through the remainder of the year.
One of the key reasons for this optimism is continued improvement in the Las Vegas market.
Citywide visitor counts continue to increase and have now risen for 17 of the last 18 months.
While previous growth has come largely from visitors who drive to Las Vegas where recently we have been  seeing improved passenger counts in McCarran.
Historically visitors arriving by air spend more per visit so the growth in the passenger traffic is especially encouraging.
Continued growth in Convention and Meeting business is a bright spot as well.
The Con/Agg Expo brought 120 000 visitors to Las Vegas in March and NAB the National Association of Broadcasters convention in April with 93 000 attendees up more than 5% from last year.
Most major shows in 2011 have reported solid growth from last year.
And based on current bookings we expect that trend to continue through the second quarter.
The growth in Convention and Meetings business is having a positive impact on hotel operators throughout the city.
Citywide room rates have increased for 12 consecutive months and total occupied room nights are up for 14 straight months.
Our properties are directly benefiting from these trends as well.
Demand for our rooms and increased Convention and Meeting business at our properties drove an increase in cash room rates nearly 7% in our Las Vegas Locals business during the first quarter.
This increase in room rates was a strong contributor to our overall results in Las Vegas.
Improvements in Convention and Meeting business room rates and occupancy are starting to benefit the entire Las Vegas economy as well.
Taxable sales have risen 7 of the last 8 months in southern Nevada.
We saw a 6% increase in January the strongest monthly performance in more than three years followed by more than a 3% growth in February.
This is clear signal that consumer spending has started to recover.
In addition it appears the job market may be turning in Nevada.
In March Southern Nevada saw its first year-over-year monthly increase since January of 2008.
The job games were particularly impressive in a sequential basis as Clark County added more than 10 000 jobs from February to March of 2011.
As job market continues to expand consumer confidence will continue to strengthen.
And this is encouraging outside of Las Vegas as well.
The strength of our Hawaiian customer base is driving healthy growth in our Downtown Vegas business and the brightening economic picture in the Midwest and South is helping drive year-over-year growth in that region.
While concerns have been raised regarding high commodity prices including gasoline we have not seen an impact on our business to date.
The transitory spike in gas prices did not have significant impact on our business several years ago and we do not believe the current spike in prices represent a substantial long-term threat to the recovery of our business.
Again we believe we are seeing a turnaround and anticipate we will see continued growth in our wholly-owned business in the second quarter and for the remainder of the year.
Touching briefly on Borgata we saw our most difficult year-over-year comparisons at this property.
This was principally due to lower table game volume and hold percentage.
While the entire Atlantic City market is going through a difficult period we are encouraged by the actions of Governor Christie and state lawmakers.
By creating a tourism district and streamlining New Jersey's regulatory structure it take an important step to ensure Atlantic City's resorts are able to compete effectively in the months ahead and establish the region as a long-term source of economic strength.
We look forward to working closely with them as we put Atlantic City back on the road to recovery.
Before turning the call over to Paul I want to review the key strategies in which we will remain focused as business continues to improve.
First we remain committed to finding opportunities to strengthen our balance sheet.
We took an important first step in this direction when we reached an agreement to sell Dania Jai Alai for $80 million.
This asset was no longer consistent with our current growth strategy.
And by selling it we raised a significant amount of capital to be used to pay down debt and reduce our leverage.
I'd also note that Dania represented a $4 million drag on our annual earnings.
Between the elimination of this operating loss and reduced interest expense from the reduction of debt we expect this transaction to be immediately accretive to earnings adding about $0.06 annually to our earnings per share.
We also remained committed to generating growth both within our core business and through expansion of our company.
Generating growth in our core business as we move through this economic recovery is an important element to our overall growth strategy.
We worked hard to improve efficiencies over the last several years and we saw the benefits of this in our first quarter results with improvement in our operating margins.
Improved operating margins will be a primary focus for the company going forward.
We also remain interested in expanding our company through the acquisition of operations that can contribute to earnings immediately.
As we've said before we will evaluate potential transactions in a way that is strategic deliberate and disciplined.
Our intention is to pursue opportunities that are good fit for our business deliver a solid return for our shareholders that available at the right price.
Finally the ability of our employees to deliver great customer service remains a key differentiator for our company and our brands.
Our employees are a big reason our customers continue to choose our properties of the competition across country.
Thank you again for joining us this morning.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Paul to talk more specifically about the results in each of our regions.
Paul? Thanks Keith.
Hello everybody.
The positive operating trends we saw in the fourth quarter continued into the first quarter.
The Las Vegas Locals region posted nearly flat results for the second consecutive quarter both Downtown Las Vegas and the Midwest and South reported year-over-year EBITDA growth.
Our net revenues declined slightly in the Las Vegas Locals and Midwest and South regions.
We're able to manage expenses more efficiently to either maintain or grow EBITDA margins from the prior-year levels.
Margins were flat in the Las Vegas Locals region up 70 basis points in Downtown Las Vegas and increased 125 basis points in the Midwest and South.
Additionally we were able to benefit from significant revenue flow-through in our Downtown region despite higher fuel costs associated with our Hawaiian air charter program.
We are definitely beginning to see the benefits of our more efficient business model as economic conditions improve.
Now let me discuss our regional operating results in a little bit more detail.
First let's look at the Las Vegas Locals business which is benefiting from an economy in the early stages of recovery.
As with the case in the fourth quarter The Orleans was the star of the region posting nearly 20% year-over-year EBITDA growth in the first quarter.
The Orleans saw growth across the business with increases in both gaming and non-gaming revenues.
While an improving economic outlook and strong convention business helps the Orleans is also generating significant growth from the efforts of its strong management team and employees as well as very successful marketing initiatives.
We're able to capture much of these revenue growth from the bottom line thanks to our operating leverage.
We believe The Orleans' exceptional performance in both revenue and EBITDA is a preview of how operating leverage will play in our favor as business volumes recover in the months ahead.
The Locals region has also seen a significant increase in Convention and Meeting business which should contribute to growth in the region going forward.
Our Convention and Meeting business was up more than 20% in the first quarter and we expect this growth rate to continue.
As business fundamentals continue to strengthen all 4 of our Las Vegas Locals properties reported year-over-year EBITDA gains in March.
The second quarter got off to an encouraging start as well with solid regional results in April.
While the promotional environment remains elevated it is clear that the aggressive advertising and promotional campaign launched by our largest locals competitor has not shifted yet away from our properties.
Our customers continue to enjoy the exceptional customer service and a compelling value offered by our brand.
If the current trends hold we expect to show year-over-year growth in the Las Vegas Locals region in each of the remaining quarters in 2011.
Elsewhere in Las Vegas we saw particularly strong results in our Downtown region which posted solid growth during the first quarter.
Flow-through was an important driver of growth here as well as EBITDA rose 8% on a 3% revenue gain.
It's important to note that this EBITDA gain would have doubled had it not been for higher fuel costs associated with our Hawaiian charter service.
For the second straight quarter we saw a significant growth in business from our geographic Hawaiian customers.
These positive trends have mitigated the impact of higher expenses at Vacations-Hawaii.
Debt fuel prices were up sharply and fierce competition on Hawaiian air routes limits our ability to pass along these increases in the form of higher-ticket prices.
While increased costs will remain a factor we are optimistic that positive trends will continue in the Downtown business in the second quarter.
In the Midwest and South year-over-year growth accelerated.
The MSR posted an EBITDA gain of nearly 5% in the first quarter and we grew share in most of our markets.
As we warned on our last call severe winter weather reduced EBITDA by about $3 million during the quarter.
However this weather impact was offset by a similar amount in credits from property tax adjustments that hit in late March.
So the gain in EBITDA is an accurate reflection of the region's operating performance.
In Louisiana Treasure Chest continued to perform well during the quarter due to highly effective marketing and overall economic strength in the region.
Delta Downs benefited from a strengthening regional economy as well.
Further north economic conditions in the Midwest are improving and we expect Blue Chip and Par-A-Dice to post year-over-year growth in the quarters ahead.
As you may have heard online casinos in Tunica Mississippi were forced to temporarily close over the last several days due to flooding along the Mississippi River.
This included Sam's Town Tunica which closed on Sunday.
They do not yet have a re-opening day.
The situation is hard to predict with any certainty but we'll keep you advised.
This closure will have a modest impact on regional results in the second quarter though it is difficult to quantify how much at this time.
Tunica normally accounts for about 2.5% of our wholly-owned property EBITDA.
However business interruption and flood damage are covered by our property insurance policy subject to a $1 million deductible.
And we do not expect to have flooding issues at any of our other properties.
Our most difficult comparison during the quarter came at Borgata which posted declines in both debt net revenue and EBITDA.
The $6 million year-over-year decline in EBITDA centered on table games and was principally due to 2 key factors.
First our table game volume was negatively impacted by competition from Pennsylvania.
This impact was in line with our expectations costing us approximately $2 million in EBITDA as compared to the first quarter of 2010.
The second factor contributing to the decline was a decrease in table game hold percentage which was responsible for $4 million of the year-over-year EBITDA decline.
As some Las Vegas strip operators have previously noted greetings to your customers have been reducing the length of their play sessions which tend to have an adverse impact on table game hold percent.
Borgata's seen similar behavior with our customers over the last several quarters particularly in blackjack.
And this has caused volatility in our overall table hold percentage.
In addition sometimes customers just play lucky as a handful of premium players did in April.
That contributed to an unusually low table hold percentage of just over 9% last month.
We estimate that hold process about $6 million in EBITDA in April.
However we continue to have confidence in the integrity of Borgata's table game operation and believe that table games' hold will ultimately stabilize at 2010 levels of around 13%.
Even as we experienced challenges centered around table games the remainder of Borgata's business performed relatively well during the quarter.
Slot win rose 7% though the balance of the market declined 8%.
In fact we achieved record quarterly market share of 19% for both slot win and gross gaming revenue.
Additionally we saw positive results in cash ADR room occupancy and food and beverage revenues.
While the city faces significant challenges going forward we continue to have confidence in the long-term future of Borgata.
There is more competition in the region than ever before yet a wide range of customers continue to enjoy Borgata's unique brand of hospitality.
We will keep leveraging the strengths of our product and services that give Borgata competitive edge and will continue focusing our management efforts on building efficiencies into the operations.
Despite the current challenges at Borgata the year started off on the right foot as our wholly-owned operations posted solid performance during the first quarter an exceptionally strong March and healthy flow-through helped our wholly-owned business generate its first quarterly EBITDA growth since the recession began.
We expect this growth to continue in the second quarter and through the remainder of the year.
As the economy continues to regain its footing we anticipate that spend per visit will rise across the business.
A significant portion of that increase revenue should flow through to the bottom line resulting in healthy EBITDA growth.
Thanks for your time today.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Josh for a review of the financials.
Thank you Paul.
Comments on items from the quarter from a financial perspective.
Starting with the balance sheet excluding Borgata Boyd debt balance at the end of the first quarter was approximately $2.4 billion of which $1.4 billion was outstanding under our $2 billion credit facility.
Borgata's debt balance was $829 million of which $29 million was outstanding under their $150 million credit facility.
On the income statement corporate expense excluding share-based compensation for the quarter was $9.8 million even with the prior year.
Share-based compensation expense was approximately $1 million higher in the quarter due to a onetime accounting adjustment.
So the amount in the first quarter does not reflect a good run rate for the remainder of the year.
Depreciation expense in the quarter which includes both Boyd and Borgata was $50.6 million a decrease of approximately $6 million from the prior year.
Boyd's depreciation expense represented $31.7 million of that number which compares to $38.4 million in the first quarter of last year.
The decrease in depreciation expense is due to our reduced capital expenditure program.
Borgata's depreciation expense of $18.9 million was essentially even with the first quarter last year.
Consolidated interest expense for the quarter was $57.3 million.
Interest expense at Boyd was $39.9 million for the quarter an increase of $11.4 million over the prior year reflecting the impact of a financing activity in the second half of last year.
Interest expense for Borgata was $17.3 million for the quarter an increase of $11.7 million over the prior year again due to the financing activity that occurred in the later portion of 2010.
Our effective consolidated tax rate for the quarter was 33%.
Before I complete our prepared remarks I would like to comment on the recent Dania announcement.
As we disclosed yesterday we had reached agreement with a group of private investors to sell Dania for $80 million in cash.
We have already received $5 million of the sales proceeds in the form of a non-refundable deposit.
We expect to receive the remaining $75 million before the end of September when the transaction is expected to close.
From a financial perspective selling Dania is significant for several reasons.
Upon closing this transaction will be immediately accretive to earnings per share.
Interest expense is reduced by approximately $4 million or $0.03 per share annually as a result of the $80 million in proceeds.
In addition Dania generates currently an operating loss of approximately $4 million or another annual $0.03 per share.
This loss is presented in the other line item below EBITDA in our non-GAAP financial statement.
So in total this transaction is EPS accretive by approximately $0.06 per share per year.
We also expect to recognize the tax loss of approximately $60 million and a book gain of approximately $40 million.
The tax loss will reduce cash taxes by about $20 million.
The book gain counts as EBITDA in the calculation of our covenant.
As a result of this gain the elimination of EBITDA loss and the benefits derived by reducing debt our performance with improve across the board.
So for many reasons this is a solid step in the right direction for our company.
With that operator we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix of Barclays Capital.
Keith and I guess to all of you you're clearly you're optimistic about your Las Vegas Locals market for the rest of the year.
I'm just wondering if you could parse out what you're seeing in your destination visitation for that segment.
I know it's less than -- slightly less than 20% of your overall business there.
But I'm just wondering if you have any color on how that's trended in April? You did say that you're not seeing any impact from gas prices but I am just wondering how that's trending? I'll let Paul take a shot at that.
I would say that I think the performance at the Orleans is a good indication of a property that has more of Destination business than some of our other Las Vegas Locals properties.
And its performance was quite strong during the quarter and quite strong in April.
But I'll let Paul provide some more detail.
Yes Felicia I think as -- we track obviously like everybody gasoline prices not just in the Las Vegas market but in all the markets we operate in relative to pricing unique to those regions of the country.
We have just not seen any correlation at all between the rise of gas prices and really the amount of volume or revenues being generated at our properties.
Revenues has been very consistent.
And then we continue to show growth.
The speed of which is different based on the market we're talking about with obviously gas prices going up.
As it relates to where we're seeing it as far as improvements are concerned in the Las Vegas Locals market it's really not necessarily unique to any particular segment overall.
I think to Keith's point given nearly 2 000 hotel rooms at the Orleans destination obviously has the bigger impact there than at other places.
But as you'd expect I think in a recovery those folks that are most interested in the products that we have that our destination -- or in database Emerald customers which is our top-tier are really where we're seeing the most amount of growth.
That's great.
And actually that kind of -- is a good segue to my next question because the business in Las Vegas Locals market did hold it very well in light of the competitive promotional environment.
You guys have been talking about that throughout the quarter how it wasn't affecting you.
But I'm just wondering you did show great cost controls.
You also have your improved loyalty program.
Was there one that helped benefit more than the other? Can you break that out at all? Well I mean I think obviously marketing overall whether it is our B Connected card which is our database card or just marketing overall and really spending marketing dollars sufficiently and effectively is a key part of maintaining margins and continue to grow margins.
And I think you may just over time obviously learn a lot in what is effective and not spend money frankly just to spend money but spend in a way that people really appreciate.
And that's what we continue to do.
Great.
And then I assume that you're taking that same strategy in Atlantic City that your promotional expense is a little bit higher than we had expected.
So I'm just wondering what you're seeing there and what we should expect going forward? Sure in Atlantic City clearly as look through the numbers you'll see some elevated levels of promotional spend and it was aimed primarily in the slot area but also a little bit in table games.
And that was a kind of focused planned effort if it's not necessary indicative of what you will see in the future.
I will note that it was profitable at the end of the day that when you look at slot win less promotional expense it was higher year-over-year even though we spent more money.
So it was more of a focused approach that took place during the quarter and it's again not necessarily indicative going forward.
Just to add one comment to Keith's remarks is that relative to the competition in Atlantic City Borgata still has one of the lowest levels of promotional expenditures in the marketplace.
We look at that in terms of published results as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Greff of JPMorgan.
Paul you've been discussing the Las Vegas Locals trends in March and April.
You mentioned all 4 Locals properties in March were up year-over-year from an EBITDA perspective.
April was solid.
When you look at those results in March and April is that an increase in frequency? Or is that an increase in spend per visit if you can help us understand that? And then Josh I don't know if you gave us cash balances at the end of the quarter or CapEx for the quarter and CapEx for the rest of the year that would be helpful.
First on the frequency kind of question Joe to my point about our top-tier customers' frequency is definitely up in that category.
And I would say it is relatively stable as we go below that as opposed to where we were seeing frequency decline in some of our lower tiers pretty substantially throughout the recession.
On spend per visit really honestly depends on the property whether frankly it's in Nevada or elsewhere.
That's where we're seeing spend per visit come in.
I would say to you that spend per visit generally speaking is no worse than flat.
And in some of our markets including some of our properties in Las Vegas spend per visit is starting to grow.
So with respect to your financial questions with respect to cast Boyd's cash flow was about $150 million and Borgata's was $25 million.
In the quarter we spent about $10 million at Boyd on maintenance capital and just under $4 million in related capital at Borgata.
When we gave guidance for the quarter for the items that we give guidance for we indicated that Borgata's CapEx for the year would be about $40 million $5 million related to a portion of the room remodel that's going on.
The other $25 million over half of that would be spent in the first quarter related to Borgata's room remodel -- first quarter next year.
And then at Boyd we indicated we expected our capital expenditure program for the year to be about $50 million.
Your next question comes from the line of David Katz of Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> There was some commentary I think by Keith earlier about the prospect of acquisitions.
Could you maybe talk about some of the key attributes you're looking for or give us some sort of characterization of what would be appealing to you obviously beyond just the economic ones? We presume you're looking for good return but what else can you tell us about things that you would sort of draw a circle around? Sure.
Well what's going on is we look to continue to grow the company acquiring existing assets or acquiring cash flows that's in line with our current strategy.
We've been fairly consistent over the years with what we look for just that not -- just something that provides a good return to our shareholders but something that continues to diversify our asset base.
So we're looking in markets maybe where we don't have a flag to date and looking for markets or states that have stable tax environments stable regulatory environments places where we are confident investing our capital because the investment or the size of these investments gets larger and larger every year.
So we have to be confident in the regulatory structure and then the taxing structure.
But when you look at those 2 factors along with making sure that it's priced right so we can get a return for our shareholders.
Those are kind of the 3 key elements we're looking for.
Inc.</strong> And do you have any kind of an inclination toward or away from the racino model versus the riverboat model versus land-based? Or are those not relevant factors at all? Really not relevant.
I think we're probably agnostic with respect to whether it's a racino or a riverboat or a land-based facility.
Clearly the acquisition of a major land-based asset probably provides more opportunities so we're focused on some of that maybe at larger cash flow than smaller cash flow.
But whether it's land-based or riverboat or a racino it's probably more in line with the size of the cash flow than the type of the asset.
Inc.</strong> And could we or would we rule out something that's transformational? That since we're talking about size I mean would you entertain doing something that was in the neighborhood of doubling the size of the company? I think we look at ways to increase shareholder value overall whether those are large or small we'll take a look at those ways.
We don't set something aside just because it's too large.
We may set something aside because it's too small and doesn't move the needle.
But the size of an acquisition doesn't deter us.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And if I can just clarify one thing and make sure I have it right with respect to April specifically in the Las Vegas Locals market I think Paul you said that the spend per visitor was starting to go up.
And did you say that visitation was up in April as well? I said I think to Joe's question we have started to see frequency improve at the high end of the database.
And I said on spend per visit really depended on the property where at worse we're seeing flat results and in some cases we're seeing improvement.
Inc.</strong> That's perfect.
Your next question comes from the line of Shaun Kelley of Bank of America.
I just wanted to ask a little bit more about -- I think you have some good data points on March and April.
So looking out a little bit further I mean one of the consistent questions we get a lot about is just the limited visibility out there in Las Vegas.
I mean can you -- is there anything you can help us get a sense around for -- and I don't know if bookings at the Orleans or anything that you guys are looking at on a forward -- kind of forward bookings side to get a little bit more comfortable with how the environment is turning out there beyond kind of what you've seen today particularly maybe in the summer period because I think a lot of people are worried about that trough in Vegas during that period as well? Okay.
And I think the summer in Las Vegas whether it's 2006 or whether it's 2011 everybody's worried about the summer in Las Vegas.
It is clearly a soft period even in the best the markets out here.
And I think we stay very focused on filling hotel rooms during the summer.
And it's a time when Convention and Meeting business obviously naturally falls off as well between summer vacations for schools and other family outings and just the fact that Vegas isn't quite the same destination in the heat of the summer than it is in some other periods during the year.
So it will be competitive from a room products standpoint and the pricing standpoint this summer like it has been every other year in the best and worst of times.
So I have no doubt about that.
Okay.
And then I guess the other thing would just be if you could talk a little bit about -- I mean obviously the Dania transaction was -- you mentioned how accretive it was in removing some of the operating losses.
If you think about kind of the strategy behind Echelon and what the kind of opportunity would be for that land kind of what's the latest thinking there? And I mean obviously it's a big drag on operating earnings so that's kind of why I ask.
With respect to the Echelon development on the Strip we continue to kind of I guess keep it as an option and assess our future.
We are not taking any specific actions right now.
We're obviously continuing to watch the market and try and determine when the best time to move forward on that asset may be.
It's clearly not today.
It's clearly not this year.
It's probably not next year.
As we kind of look into the future of the Strip and we look into the future of consumer demand and when it hits a point that you could add another project of that caliber.
So if we had an opportunity to sell some of the land we just sit on 88 acres would we entertain it? Sure.
That opportunity hasn't presented itself.
We clearly have long-term confidence in Las Vegas in Las Vegas Strip.
We look forward to having an asset on the Strip at some point in our future as a company.
We think strategically that's important for us.
And still have that as a longer-term focus as we look to the growth of our company.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Woronka of Deutsche Bank.
I think you mentioned you haven't really seen any impact from gas prices portfolio-wide yet but just want to ask you if you're not doing anything on the promotional side do you have any sense that any of your competitors might be trying to get ahead of that a little bit as the summer approaches? In what way? Just in terms of promotional activity? Well I mean just broad-based promotional activity.
I mean again I think obviously from a destination standpoint how you market your rooms and obviously you could spend a lot of effort marketing our rooms to our existing database and our existing group of known customers in the values that those folks can obtain relative to room product in the summer is obviously quite competitive.
But again you're comparing it to the same period last year in an economy that was obviously on pretty tough times as well.
So on a year-over-year basis it's an apples-to-apples comparison.
I also think it's important to note that over the last several years in last year in particular we've worked hard to maintain control of the marketing expense and to find the right level of promotional expense and not react to our competitors who may be out there and decided that they want to launch a very aggressive campaign.
I think we've been able to do that effectively to spend our marketing and promotional dollars wisely to build loyalty with our customers and have them continue to visit our properties even in the face of maybe some enhanced marketing from our competitors.
So there will be enhanced marketing I think as you enter the summer it's natural.
I don't think you're going to see us react to that.
We're going to remain fairly disciplined on that front.
Great.
And I think the data points you put out on April are pretty encouraging.
But on the ones you gave out for March do you think there's an Easter impact in there? Is it even possible to quantify? I think it is tough to quantify.
I mean I think your point is that Easter is one of the weaker weekends since obviously its focus isn't necessarily on hotel casinos.
And that hit in different periods year-over-year.
It's not going to quantify.
I mean it's not that material a difference in any particular year.
Okay.
Very good.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Ruggiero of CRT Capital.
I noticed that your maintenance utility expense line was well-controlled during the quarter notwithstanding the higher energy prices we've seen year-over-year.
And I wanted to see if the maintenance side of that equation is just a cycling such that it keeps the overall number down? Or is there something specific you're doing with your utility expense to keep that in line? Steve it's Paul.
We've spent a lot of time on the utility side of that equation.
Our utility cost natural gas electricity as a group are generally actually down even though pricing is up.
We've created the specialty within the company like -- certainly others have as well to focus of those areas.
And I think we've been very successful given deregulation in many states to frankly just purchase things smarter.
We also have a pretty significant effort around not just going green but just being more efficient in electricity consumption.
That in many cases includes changing out lighting fixtures and other things.
But there are real short-term payoffs for us in number of those areas relative to the capital spend that's required.
Helpful.
And just one follow-up question on a different subject and that's your room revenues were your wholly-owned properties up mid-single-digit year-to-date or I should say for the first quarter.
Is that driven more from the occupancy side? Or is it driven by the ADR side of that RevPAR? And could you just elaborate as to which regions are driving that? Is it mostly the Las Vegas properties? You made the reference to the 7% cash room increase.
Well first you got to keep in mind that we've got about 7 000 wholly-owned rooms and 5 000 are in Las Vegas.
So Las Vegas obviously is going to be key driver to the hotel aspect from an ADR perspective.
We have seen ADRs start to creep up slowly I think just like our bigger competitors have with higher-end rooms.
It is still obviously a bit of a commodity a hotel room in Las Vegas.
But there is some build and certainly it has really helped in my comments on Meeting and Convention business are really meant to hit spot on mid-week.
Over the last couple of years it has been very challenging obviously to sell rooms at any price that you would find acceptable.
And that has started to improve.
And that has a pretty meaningful impact overall.
You could start to see some firmness in mid-week as a key contributor to overall improved profitability.
Yes just adding to that I think what we benefited from is not only the broader Convention business is coming to the Las Vegas Strip and enabled us to price our rooms more aggressively but also demand for our own meeting space and product primarily again at the Orleans.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Your next question comes from the line of Carlo Santarelli from Wells Fargo.
I just want to comment a little bit or maybe pick your brain a little bit on promotional activity specifically in Atlantic City.
You guys have obviously a new -- not necessarily a new competitor but new ownership takeover who I think it's been well documented has been pretty promotional.
Next year in July you'll have a new competitor.
And I would expect more of the same there.
Could you kind of talk about specifically as it relates to that market the way you will go about promotions in the near term and then as well post the opening of Revel? When talking about any level of specificity on promotions would be probably a little bit too much of a roadmap for our competitors.
I think we look at promotions on generally what's going on in the market on any given month kind of where we think we can pick our spots to maintain our customers and to kind of improve our position.
The Borgata obviously has had a leadership position in that market since it opened.
It continues to maintain that and growth in many respects as we hit some record market share numbers in this last go around.
And yes we'll continue to very carefully as I said pick our spots with respect to promotional spending.
It will be up in some months and some quarters and down in other months in other quarters.
We clearly realized that the opening of Revel a year or so from now will create a new dynamic in that marketplace that it will get visitation.
We are taking the opening of that very seriously.
And we'll have plans in place well in advance of the opening to compete with that and make sure that our property the Borgata maintains its leadership position in that market and doesn't given up just because a new competitor opens that market.
So we will that work hard.
We're talking about it currently about how we deal with it and how we position ourselves for it and we'll work hard over the next 12 months to make sure that we have good plans and operations in place to fight the opening of that property.
LLC</strong> Great.
Thanks Keith and if I could just ask one follow-up I think you mentioned in your remarks regarding -- or as it related to Borgata a 13% hold similar to 2010.
Going back historically in the '08-'09 period hold was clearly on the table side north of 14% at Borgata.
Is there a structural change in game mix or anything that leads you to believe the 2010 level is the right level go forward or are we just there until maybe volumes and play levels come back? Yes I think it's the latter.
I think that low 14s was kind of our run rate over the years.
I think as we've seen a higher level of premium tier play over the last couple of years as we've lost some of the lower-end play table games volume at the Borgata you've seen kind of a shift hold has dropped.
You've also I think seen a little bit of less time on the game by some of these players.
And I think that will cycle through over the next couple of years.
So we think the 13% level is probably the right level for next year or 2 and it will eventually I think trend back up just a little bit.
Your next question comes from the line of Dennis Forst of KeyBanc.
I had a couple of questions maybe just a follow-up on the Borgata question with Revel.
On the other side of the equation do you foresee any closures maybe less competition from existing operators? Well I'm not going to predict I guess any particular properties' demise.
Clearly the Atlantic City marketplace can use or demand and conversely without being able to draw more demand I think out of less capacity is a good thing.
There are some weaker competitors I think in Atlantic City.
What happens to them ultimately I don't know.
And I'm not going to predict.
So...
Okay.
Do you think that it's possible that Revel could actually help Borgata by bringing in more quality type of customers? I do hold that view.
I do believe that having another high-quality operation with the right amenities and the right product can bring more customers to Atlantic City.
More customers that maybe today don't come down because the right type of amenities or quantity of those amenities don't exist and so that it can draw some additional customers.
And I certainly -- I'm very confident of Borgata's chances of getting their fair share of those customers coming into the market.
Okay.
So if I could shift gears and go to Paul again and maybe harp a little bit on the Las Vegas Locals market there was a lot of talk about improved amount of frequency of play higher room revenues what in general were gaming revenues for your 4 locals properties down in the first quarter? What's the question Dennis? The gaming revenues were down...
The gaming for the Locals -- for your Local division? Gaming revenues were slightly down in the first quarter that is correct.
Okay.
But in the month of March you said all 4 properties were up EBITDA.
Then you said April was a solid month.
I'm just trying to get the body language.
Does solid mean all 4 properties were up in April also or were the 4 combined up in April? What does solid mean? I think obviously I didn't say that all 4 properties were up in April so you can probably guess that they weren't all up in April.
But I think in April we were very positive on the fact the group as a whole performed well.
Okay.
Good.
And then on the Downtown then how is April in Downtown? Well I think absent fuel costs we were very pleased with the top line and EBITDA performance of the properties overall.
The burden of jet fuel on a year-over-year basis is a very significant number.
And so we are certainly pleased with how downtown has continued to perform and our expectations of downtown through the second quarter and really the pressure overall on downtown as a group for the second quarter will be directly associated with really where jet fuel ends up on average for the quarter.
Okay.
But the economy in Hawaii as much as it's suffering just in general and now with the Japanese earthquake are you still seeing good strong demand from your Hawaiian big customer base? Well before the tsunami in Japan the Hawaiian economy was actually showing some very positive signs very positive signs overall.
And there was significant strength there.
Japan accounts for about 20% of the inbound tourism -- destination tourism into Hawaii.
Obviously with the tsunami and everything that's going on in Japan there has been a direct impact on near-term visitation into Hawaii.
And I know an awful lot of cancellations at resorts in Hawaii for that Japanese group.
And the flip side of that is there is obviously got to be a significant amount of rebuilding in Japan.
And with that economic stimulus I think over the longer term I'm not -- unlike other natural disasters we would expect some significant improvement in the Japanese economy over the medium term.
And again I think Hawaii just benefits from that given again 20% of their inbound visitation comes out of Japan.
Yes okay.
And then lastly the upcoming closure of the Sahara I can see it being a two-edged sword for you that it will put a number of locals out of work.
But on the other hand it reduces the number of rooms in Las Vegas.
How do you see that closure playing out for you folks? I think obviously from a room standpoint taking out room inventory is certainly a positive for everybody that operates in this town.
As it relates to the employee base of the Sahara I know first hand many of their employees had been able to find work at other properties throughout Las Vegas.
I also think given our experience at the Stardust I would expect that the population of the Sahara would just take the opportunity to retire and enjoy life.
Your next question comes from the line of Justin Sebastiano of Morgan Joseph.
No one has talked about the LVE Energy Partners fee that you guys are going to be paying.
That's roughly I guess about $11 million to $12 million a year.
Where is that going to show up on the income statement? I know you broke it out I guess with the different segments between wholly-owned and Borgata but on the actual income statement where do we find that? It will be in pre-opening pre-opening income.
Okay.
And so roughly that's about -- that's what like $0.09 a year roughly after-tax? It's approximately $12 million per year so ...
Okay okay.
That the math I'm coming up with.
So this I mean this will continue I guess until you guys decide what's going to go on then with Echelon whether you actually develop it or I guess sell it off? Consistent with our filing both the 10-K and the 8-K related to the agreement is that we will pay basically $1 million a month.
So we either start Echelon or we project back on that side or choose to buy them out of their investment a purchase option in that agreement.
Okay.
And that's roughly about $200 million is the buyout? About $195 million or so? It basically represents their investment in that facility at that time.
Another way to think about it is they were one of the providers of services related to Echelon either through building the energy plant or like in other cases folks are doing construction-related work or services contracting and consulting work.
And so no one had really contemplated the kind of delay associated with Echelon.
We just needed to sit down and see what work for both parties.
And that's what came out of the agreement.
Right okay.
And so if you guys end up selling the land does that then go to the new owner? Does that -- the JV or are you guys on the hook for that $195 million that would be used to buy them out? I think it would be dependent on structuring of the transaction and what -- probably it's 87 acres so if someone bought 5 acres at one corner then that wouldn't obviously affect our agreement with LVE or the land that they deed from us to the extent that if someone wanted to buy 87 acres then we'd have to understand what they were contemplating doing to kind of factor that in.
There's a range of possibilities both in terms of outcomes as well as in terms of our flexibility to consider alternatives there.
But I mean You've got to keep in mind that in a plant like Las Vegas energy is required to operate any sort of facility on that site.
It isn't like you can buy what it produces from Nevada energy or some other utility.
It produces hot and cold water effectively which is used throughout the facility.
And it or something like it would have to be constructed if it wasn't used for whatever happens on the site.
Sure.
Okay okay.
And Paul I think you have mentioned that weather impacted EBITDA at your riverboats by about $3 million but you made that up elsewhere.
Was that a property tax gain or what exactly was that again? And forgive me for not hearing that.
That's right.
Weather causes $3 million in January and February primarily in February.
Late in March we had been working on property tax issues.
Actually in this particular case it's in the Midwest and South region.
And these are property taxes that have been expensed but not paid but expensed through the income statement so they had a prior-period impact negatively on EBITDA that were as a result of some re-evaluation work reversed.
And so since we had expensed it in prior periods we reversed it into the first quarter and that accounted for just under $3 million.
You can see it if you look at the EPS calculation.
We adjusted out of EPS because it was a prior-period adjustment.
That's included in EBITDA because it was a prior-period expense so now it's a current-period benefit.
Got you.
Okay.
And so was that spread across all of your riverboat properties? Or was it just a couple or one? It was predominantly at one.
Which one? Blue Chip.
Okay.
And then so the weather I assume was Blue Chip and Par-A-Dice is that the most affected by that? Prominently Blue Chip.
Blue Chip.
Okay.
On the revision and estimate it's a conclusion of the negotiation with the tax authorities.
Got you.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Strawn of Morgan Stanley.
One question on the locals market.
You mentioned some strength on the room side and the cash room revenues.
If we kind of look through the P&amp;L there in your locals market what percentage of EBITDA or departmental profit does that account for? As you kind of look forward and project out EBITDA growth going forward Is that a main driver of it or is it really on the gaming side? Well I think it's -- I mean it's in all honesty a balance.
I mean throughout our business we're obviously much more gaming-centric than full-scale resorts on the Las Vegas Strip.
Roughly depending on the property and the size of our hotel 70% 75% of revenue comes from gaming and obviously the balance is non-gaming with food and beverage also playing a pretty significant role.
The benefit obviously of rising cash ADRs for us or any of our peers is simply the fact that the expense base associated with those rooms is a fixed cost.
So if I get $1 more of cash ADR I get it really practically speaking $1 more of profit.
And you saw that in a huge way obviously on the downswing through '08 '09 '10.
And it's just going to come back the other way.
Okay so as you look forward is it really a mix of those 2 factors driving the growth going forward? Or do you expect one to lead the other? Or is it really more a broad-based gaming recovery that we need to see to see more substantial growth rates in the Locals market? I think they will -- I mean I think they'll both have a positive impact.
The velocity of the impact I guess is what you're getting at is really a question for what we expect to see in the future.
I mean growth in the Las Vegas Locals region from our perspective will be slow and gradual.
It's not going to be an overnight type of thing.
And obviously the way our business sets out this year in Nevada in particular in the Las Vegas Locals region I mean gaming being a much larger piece of that we'll certainly benefit to initially maybe a little bit more equal but I would expect this traction in Las Vegas relative to the local economy by the sheer nature of the numbers gaming should start to play a greater role as time goes on.
Your next question comes from the line of David Hargrave of Sterne Agee.
I was wondering if you had your leverage tests overall and secured and if you could tell us what they are pro forma for Dania if possible? Sure.
The leverage ratios were essentially the same that we've reported in the fourth quarter.
The secured leverage ratio I think was right around 4.2x which is exactly what we did in the fourth quarter and total of 7.1x.
And then I don't think we'll give out the exact ratios that we're projecting for Q3 when the transaction closes because I think that'll give you an idea of guidance.
But what I will say is that we would expect because they have different multiplier effects there's a different effect on each one of the ratios so secured leverage ratio probably will improve by about 60 basis points and the total leverage ratio will probably -- by almost a full turn 90 basis points.
At this time we have time for one more question.
And your final question comes from the line of Kevin Coyne of Goldman Sachs.
Just wanted to address the non-extended revolver.
I know you have the ability to pay that down when it comes due with the extended portion.
I was just wondering if you could give us a sense of -- is that the basic plan? Or are there other alternatives of how you'll address that? And then I have a follow-up.
Yes I think the way we look at it is we have a -- just as we talk about it it's all about in terms of refinancing our balance sheet right last year we have several alternatives that we're think about with respect to the non-extending portion.
I think one of the most obvious is just the fact that we're extending availability and use it for that purpose.
And I think that while we might have less near-term availability than we would like to run the business then we can come back at some point and deal with that issue.
Now in the current environment where our business feels like it's getting better and we see the trends are headed in that direction limited CapEx we just don't have the need for the kinds of availability that we've had historically.
So we have kind of the facility to use the extended facility and then deal with it down the road if conditions kind of are more favorable for us before then around that time then we'll probably look at alternatives.
But I think we're comfortable if necessary just using the availability under the extended portion and then dealing with it after the fact.
That's kind of what we've will talked about and thought about when we did the initial financing.
And we will see how things develop between now and then where we don't feel any real pressure to doing things different before then.
Okay great.
And then so I guess knowing that you have that as the option do you think you'll start to consider addressing some of the other maturities such as the sub-notes which are callable today? I think in the context of how we are thinking about the business we will firmly start thinking about those kinds of things.
But again we have plenty time.
The sub-notes don't mature until say 2014.
And we kind of like the long runway we have before we have to deal with any of those maturities.
Or we feel like again with the business -- with the wind at our back and probably the trends in our business.
We don't feel any need to kind of do anything right now.
Great.
And if I could just ask one more related to the Borgata.
Obviously with a new competitor coming in and with the state government kind of trying to focus on the branding of Atlantic City and a potential focus on increased targeting of convention and larger group business do you see -- is that something that you're going to start to work on and see as a potential driver for more growth? And would that include potential collaboration with that new competitor? Well I think anything that will grow the Atlantic City market we are a strong supporter of.
And we'll be part of the conversation.
I think as I said in my comments we're very supportive of the actions that the governor -- the government has taken and look forward to their continued involvement in moving Atlantic City forward increasing the amount of Convention business so that we certainly can take advantage of that.
Once again as they bring more customers to Atlantic City we are surely confident in our ability to get them into our building and have them become long-term customers for us.
Any collaboration or cooperation with Revel it's hard to predict what that might look like or how it would take place at this point.
I think they're probably just getting their feet on the ground moving their project forward.
But we are interested in any and all conversations that help to move Atlantic City forward.
We want to be part of them and want to be part of that overall solution.
All right.
And just to be clear Kevin I don't think we've -- contemplating sustaining meeting our convention space at our facilities.
We don't see any need to do that.
That's their business model.
Right now we're just a part of that debate fully built out.
And that's what we'll continue to focus on.
Okay.
That's great.
I appreciate it.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Josh Hirsberg for closing remarks.
Please....
Thank you.
And thank you for everyone who's participated in the call today.
And if you have any follow-up questions feel free to reach out to the company.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Boyd Gaming Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Alicia and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Josh Hirsberg Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Alicia and good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call this morning are Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Paul Chakmak our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Our comments today will include statements relating to our estimated future results including among others guidance for the third quarter the financial outlook for our company our expansion and development projects and other market business and property trends that are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of today's date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those noted in our earnings release our periodic reports and our other filings with the SEC.
During our call today we will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
For a complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the Investors section of our website at boydgaming.com.
Finally as a reminder we are broadcasting this call on our website at boydgaming.com and streetevents.com.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Keith Smith our President and CEO.
Keith? Thanks Josh and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for our second quarter earnings call.
Results for the second quarter reflect the continuation of the positive momentum we discussed on our first quarter call.
During the current quarter we saw our wholly-owned EBITDA grow more than 13% and our margins improved 240 basis points.
Most encouraging is that all 3 of our wholly-owned operating regions reported year-over-year growth.
These impressive results were led by our properties in the Midwest and South where we grew EBITDA by 19% and improved margins by 370 basis points.
In addition the Las Vegas Locals region returned to year-over-year growth which is an encouraging milestone.
Positive results generated by our wholly-owned operations during both the first quarter and second quarter clearly demonstrate that we have finally turned a corner in our business.
We expect that our wholly-owned business will continue to show improvements throughout the rest of this year.
In Atlantic City we face more difficult comparisons as the market continues to experience intense competition from surrounding markets.
While Borgata was clearly impacted by this competition it continues to outperform the market growing its market share by 80 basis points supporting [ph] growth in non-gaming revenues.
From an economic standpoint the recovery of the Las Vegas tourism industry is continuing and all major metrics are showing improvement.
Visitation has now increased by 15 straight months.
Citywide occupancy is up more than 4 percentage points so far this year.
ADRs have risen by nearly 10% and airline traffic through McCarran has increased 3.5%.
Additionally so far this year the leisure and hospitality sector has added nearly 8 000 jobs in Southern Nevada.
We have long held the belief that strength in business trends on the Las Vegas Strip will lead to improved results in our Las Vegas Locals business.
We believe we're finally beginning to see these results reflected in the playing patterns of our customers.
Paul will touch on this more in his remarks.
Midwest and South Region where the economic recovery is taking firmer hold 5 of our 6 properties posted positive comparisons to the second quarter of 2010.
The exception was Sam's Town Tunica which was closed for nearly the entire month of May due to flooding on the Mississippi River.
Factor out this closure and we would have seen even healthier growth in both revenue and EBITDA during the quarter.
Giving the growing predictability and consistency in our business over the last several quarters we have made a decision to resume quarterly guidance.
Josh will review guidance for the third quarter during his comments.
Switching topics to the company spending transactions we have 2 significant transactions we are working on.
First is our sale of Dania Jai Alai and the second is our acquisition of the IP.
I want to take a moment to provide you with a quick update on each of them.
With respect to the sale of Dania Jai Alai the process continues to move forward.
The transaction is scheduled to close in late September however the buyers do have the option of extending closing by 2 months under certain circumstances for an additional $2 million payment.
With respect to the IP the acquisition remains on track and we expect to have due diligence wrapped up by August 4.
Barring any complications we will make a $10 million nonrefundable deposit payment to the sellers at that time.
We currently expect to close the acquisition early in the fourth quarter.
As we work our way through the diligence process we continue to learn more about the IP operation.
We are more confident than ever that this acquisition will be a great addition to our company.
The IP in the Mississippi Gulf Coast offers attractive destination experience for millions of Beacon Equity members nationwide which will allow us to generate additional revenue on the property and we believe there are substantial opportunities through cross-property marketing.
Beyond the wonderful physical assets and amenities that are part of the property the IP team members have created an outstanding service offering [ph].
As a result they have given the IP brand a tremendous reputation in the market.
Based on this we have determined that upon closing of the transaction we'll be keeping the IP name and brand.
This is a testament to the efforts of all the IP team members and their hard work.
In addition as we have learned more about the property we remain confident about our ability to improve the bottom line through our purchase of goods and services at more competitive prices than the IP can as a stand-alone property.
The IP generated approximately $41 million in EBITDA over the last year but we believe its potential as part of Boyd Gaming is significantly higher.
Last month we said we could generate a minimum of $5 million in immediate annual cost savings and we remain very comfortable with that projection.
We look forward [ph] to welcoming the IP to our company and anticipate it will be a significant contributor to our future results.
Now I'd like to offer a few comments on our strategy moving forward.
As we have come to appreciate over the recent past we cannot control the national economy seasonal recovery or the spending habits of the consumer.
What we can control is our focus.
Our focus on ensuring our existing operations are managed as efficiently as possible [indiscernible] growth our focus on our capital structure in strengthening our balance sheet not just by paying down debt but also by strengthening our operations and diversifying our asset base and our focus on our growth strategy both on finding those assets that are a good strategic fit and provide an appropriate return to our shareholders.
The IP is one example but we do not believe it will be the last.
Finally once again we need to recognize our wonderful team of employees and commend them for the outstanding job they're doing over [ph] a consistently great customer experience in each and every day.
The great service people have come to expect from Boy Gaming remains a differentiator for our company and for our brands.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Paul to talk more specifically about the results in each of our regions.
Paul? Thanks Keith.
Hello everybody.
Our operating performance continued to strengthen in the second quarter.
As anticipated our wholly-owned business showed EBITDA growth.
We are particularly pleased with the continued strong performance of our Midwest and South region which produced an EBITDA gain of 19% and its third consecutive quarter of growth.
During the second quarter before corporate expense our wholly-owned properties posted an EBITDA margin of 23.1%.
This is our best quarterly margin in 2 years and represents a 220-basis point improvement over the second quarter of 2010.
The fact that we were able to generate a double-digit increase in EBITDA on flat revenue is a powerful example of the growth potential created by efficiencies in our business.
As revenue growth accelerates we believe there is potential for substantial improvements in EBITDA.
Results were driven by improvements in visitation and play in our 2 premium tiers across all 3 regions.
We have also begun to see initial signs of growth from unrated play in our stronger performing Midwest and South properties.
Now let me discuss our regional operating results in a little bit more detail.
First let's look at our Las Vegas Locals business which returned to year-over-year growth in the quarter.
On past calls we've discussed strong operating performance at The Orleans.
That continued in the second quarter as the property posted 7% EBITDA growth on higher revenue.
This marked the third consecutive quarter of growth at The Orleans.
But the growth story was about more than The Orleans as multiple properties reported year-over-year gains in the second quarter.
Our management teams continue to excel at operating efficiently while maintaining a high level of customer service.
In the second quarter our Locals business posted an EBITDA margin of 25.4%.
This is a 140-basis point increase over the second quarter of 2010.
Growth in our Convention and Meeting business continues to be a bright spot in the region.
As we predicted on our last call Convention and Meeting business revenue increased more than 20% during the second quarter in line with the growth we saw in the first quarter.
We expect that run rate to continue.
The promotional environment in the Locals region remains elevated.
We believe however that we have the right mix of promotional activities in place and remain disciplined in our marketing efforts.
The soundness of our strategy helped us produce EBITDA growth.
We're extremely pleased that the Las Vegas Locals region has returned to positive year-over-year comparisons.
This is a significant step for our company and we expect growth to continue for the rest of the year.
The Downtown Las Vegas region also reported a strong performance.
Revenue grew 2.5% year-over-year.
EBITDA rose only slightly but it's important to note that this was entirely a function of much higher fuel costs at our Hawaiian charter service.
We estimate that higher fuel expense cost us nearly $1 million during the quarter.
If you back out that expense EBITDA would have grown more than 8% during the quarter which is a much more accurate reflection of how well the properties performed.
Growth on the top line is primarily a function of continued growth in our geographical line customer segment similar to what we saw in the first quarter.
This customer base is essential to our Downtown operations and we continue to invest in them.
For example starting in October we will convert to a Boeing 767 on our Hawaiian charter route.
This will allow us to offer our Hawaiian customers a flying experience as competitive as anything currently offered in the Las Vegas to Hawaii route.
That's [ph] important this new aircraft to be more efficient on a per seat basis while providing us with a 12% increase in available seats allowing us to transport 6 200 more customers annually based on our current 5-flight-per-week rotation.
In the Midwest and South the growth story continues to brighten as the region posted its third straight quarter of year-over-year EBITDA gains.
Margin improvements played a key role as the region recorded its strongest margins since the first quarter of 2009.
As in other regions this was not a case of isolated growth at a single property.
Excluding Sam's Town Tunica all properties in the Midwest and South region reported EBITDA growth while 3 properties showed double-digit gain.
Sam's Town Tunica was able to reopen on May 25 and is back to full operations.
Visitations to the market were slow to pick up but returned to pre-flood levels in July.
However booking windows remain much shorter than normal.
Elsewhere in the region our strongest growth came once again at Treasure Chest which reported 60% EBITDA growth during the quarter driven by effective marketing programs and growing demand.
Looking ahead we believe our MSR properties will benefit from the IP acquisition.
The IP will be an attractive destination for Beacon Equity members throughout the region and should create substantial cross-marketing opportunities in the future particularly with our Louisiana properties.
Our most difficult comparison in the quarter were at Borgata which posted a 2% decline in net revenue and a 10% decrease in EBITDA.
As we've noted previously competition has elevated in the region and we responded by increasing customer reinvestment.
This increased spending made for a difficult EBITDA comparison to the prior year.
Our quarterly table game hold percentage was 13% which is in line with our long-term expectations.
However this rate was 80% -- 80 basis points below prior year levels further impacting EBITDA.
Despite these challenges the remainder of Borgata's business performed well during the quarter.
Slot win rose slightly and table game volume was flat year-over-year.
This allowed us to increase our share to 19% of the Atlantic City market an increase of 80 basis points over the prior year.
Other areas of the business posted growth.
A majority of these gains came on the hotel side as cash ADR rose 14% $174.
Occupancy for the quarter was 87% 2.5 percentage points above the year-ago quarter.
Despite challenges in Atlantic City Borgata continues to outperform the market offering a guest experience unmatched in the region.
To recap there are many highlights in the quarter from an operating perspective.
The efficiencies we've built into the business over the last several years are paying off.
We believe this is a preview of what to expect in the quarters ahead.
As customer spending and visitation continue to recover revenue growth should accelerate and drive additional bottom line gains in the quarters and years ahead.
Thanks for your time today.
I'd now like to turn it over to Josh.
Thanks Paul.
I'd like to start with a few comments on items from the quarter.
Starting with the balance sheet excluding Borgata Boyd's debt balance at the end of the second quarter was approximately $2.4 billion of which $1.4 billion was outstanding under our $2 billion credit facility.
Borgata's debt balance was $820 million of which $20 million was outstanding under their $150 million credit facility.
On the income statement corporate expense excluding share-based compensation expense for the quarter was $10.5 million an improvement over last year by $700 000.
Share-based compensation expense was $2.1 million also $700 000 below prior year.
Depreciation expense in the quarter was $48.5 million a decrease of approximately $7 million from the prior year.
Boyd's depreciation expense represented approximately $32 million which compares to $37 million in the second quarter of last year.
The decrease in depreciation expense is due to our reduced capital expenditure program.
Borgata's depreciation expense of $16.2 million was $2 million below second quarter of last year.
Excluding the impacts of consolidating Las Vegas energy consolidated interest expense for the quarter was $61.4 million.
Interest expense at Boyd was $40 million for the quarter an increase of approximately $11 million over the prior year reflecting the impact of our financing activity in the second half of last year.
Interest expense for Borgata was $21.3 million for the quarter an increase of $15.7 million over prior year again due to the financing activities that occurred in the latter part of 2010.
Sequentially from the second quarter we expect interest expense for the third quarter to decline approximately $5 million due to the expiration of swaps at the end of June.
The income tax line item in this quarter may seem a little odd to those of us who aren't tax accountants.
We've recorded income tax expense on a pretax loss.
Typically we would expect a tax benefit from the loss.
This outcome reflects the impact of permanent adjustments and state income tax expense which exceeded our federal income tax benefit.
Changing gears a bit to guidance.
Given the consistency and greater visibility we now have in our business we are reinstating quarterly guidance.
We will provide quarterly EBITDA and EPS guidance.
Because we consolidate Borgata's financial results we will provide separate EBITDA guidance for Borgata and we will provide guidance for adjusted EPS for the consolidated business which includes both Borgata and our wholly-owned segments of Boyd.
We expect wholly-owned EBITDA which includes corporate expense to be in the range of $65 million to $70 million versus the $61 million reported in the third quarter last year.
We expect Borgata to generate EBITDA of $52 million to $55 million.
With that range of EBITDA adjusted EPS for the third quarter is expected to range from breakeven to $0.03 per share.
This guidance assumes no contribution from IP during the third quarter.
With that operator that includes -- concludes our remarks and we're now ready for any questions from participants on the call.
Alicia? [Operator Instructions]  Your first question comes from the line of Felicia Hendrix.
A few questions Keith.
In your prepared remarks when you were -- and actually also Paul when you guys are talking about Las Vegas Locals you mentioned The Orleans is generating higher year-over-year revenues but overall revenues were down year-over-year.
So I'm just wondering was it -- was Orleans the only property that generated higher year-over-year revenues? And in light of that how are you thinking about the Las Vegas Locals market revenues as comps get tougher in the second half? I think as -- Orleans obviously has been a standout now for 3 quarters in a row.
And on the revenue line item naturally we've seen pretty significant declines over the last 3 years.
The rate of decline has obviously continued to shrink on a year-over-year basis so at or slightly down as a group overall but approaching really flat at a couple of the other properties as well.
So year-over-year types of improvements.
As we look out to the rest of the year and kind of the reference to kind of the tougher comps if you will in the LVL region in particular we still feel very comfortable about our statements around seeing year-over-year growth in the third and fourth quarter based on the historical comparable numbers.
We in fact last summer saw a pretty significant downdraft in the Las Vegas Locals market and actually in July.
And the comparables started to recover at the back half of the year.
But again based on business volumes booking trends et cetera et cetera we feel good about the direction that region is going.
That's very helpful because that gets to my next question.
Just on the margin side you've obviously done well.
Just wondering how much room you have to go there.
I mean obviously increasing revenues will help margins but absent that.
Well I think obviously we've worked hard to refine the expense side of the business and there is really nothing else in our bag of tricks as it relates to the expense side of the business at this point some 3-plus years into this whole thing.
But as you can see as revenues improve and in some cases you don't actually have revenue growth at specific properties but the rate of decline lessens.
The relative improvement we're able to continue to flow through on a pretty substantial pace.
The EBITDA line which has kind of an exponential impact on increasing margins.
Okay helpful.
And then just moving to Midwest and South.
Based on the monthly revenues that the states put out your Lake Charles and New Orleans properties really surprised us on the upside.
I was just wondering what was going on there? In particular is it coming from higher-priced oil or what is driving that? Well I think in the case of Treasure Chest we have continued to expand hours of operations.
Really to go all the way back to Hurricane Katrina Treasure Chest is not operated on a 24-hour basis 7 days a week.
As we've seen improvements in the economy we have continued to modify that schedule to a point now where we're open 24 hours on weekends and have just a longer business day weekdays based on demand and that's certainly helped us from a revenue perspective.
I also would say that the New Orleans market overall never probably hit the lows that a lot of parts of the overall economy hit over the last few years.
And as a result it has improved quicker than in other areas as well.
As it relates to Delta Downs I would say that the Lake Charles market is very very competitive.
There's no question about it.
Obviously our geographic positioning relative to the Lake Charles operations and the Texas markets is obviously beneficial to us.
That's been part of our strategy ever since we bought Delta Downs.
And again it's not marketing for just marketing's sake.
It's marketing in a very smart way.
And I made a comment that at our stronger properties we've started to see unrated play pick up and that kind of ties back to a couple of those properties.
And with unrated play picking up you're probably [ph] going to start to see some very positive momentum.
Great.
And then just Josh final question regarding the balance sheet.
Just following the IP acquisition we've calculated that you have a funding shortfall in 2012.
I was just wondering can you update us on how you're thinking about that? Sure.
I think -- we think about that question in really kind of 2 perspectives.
One is where the uses of capital and that is -- and we have 2 of those.
One is the $330 million nonextending portion of our credit facility which matures in May of 2012 and then we have the IP acquisition itself which is $288 million when you include the $10 million contribution to the trust.
So kind of from the sources side of things we have $350 million of availability under our 5-year extended credit facility.
So kind of a backup kind of situation that $350 million can really take care of the nonextending portion of the credit facility.
In addition we have about $80 million on our balance sheet right now in terms of cash that's the cash that's not in the cage.
So that's available to us.
And then to the extent Dania closes that's $80 million as well.
We have about $160 million of the $288 million associated with funding the IP acquisition.
So that leaves us as we mentioned on our call when we made the announcement with approximately like $250 million to $300 million of financing that we would like to do.
And I expect that we would do that some time before first quarter of next year.
And that's kind of how -- what we're comfortable with at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Shaun Kelley from Bank of America.
Josh maybe I just wanted to start with one quick clarification on the actual printed numbers.
But there is a little bit of I guess some expense that you guys took for the Tunica flooding.
And I just wanted to clarify is that something that actually dragged down your numbers more in the quarter and we should be kind of adding that back? I think it's like $1.1 million or so if I looked at the schedule correctly.
That is related to expenses that our company is responsible for related to the claim because of the closing in Tunica.
So that's the deductible plus some incremental expenses.
And in our calculation of the adjusted EPS number we have added that back or moved the impact of that.
But what about for adjusted EBITDA? It's not in adjusted EBITDA.
It's not included there because it's below the line.
Okay got it.
That's helpful.
And then just kind of to think about the operations I think you hit on the Midwest and South but I did want to ask about Atlantic City.
You mentioned the elevated promotional environment there Paul I think in your comments.
Just could you give us some thoughts about the summer where some of that increasing promo activity may be coming from? And is there any kind of I guess like any line of sight to an environment where Atlantic City could actually bottom and start to improve? Or is it still just trying to do as best as you can in what's obviously a very challenging environment? Sean this is Keith.
Clearly Atlantic City is facing a lot of increased competition.
And I think what we're seeing over the summer is the same thing that we've seen for the last couple of quarters in terms of an elevated promotional environment as Paul indicated in his remarks.
We've responded in time [ph] to make sure that we retain the customer base.
As we move forward obviously we'll start to cycle through the Pennsylvania table games in the current quarter so those started to open in late July of last year and so we'll start to have some better or maybe easier comps as we move forward.
And I think Atlantic City is just going to continue to slug it out over the next couple of quarters.
Clearly as a market leader we like our position there.
I think we're doing a great job running the business.
We continue to see good improvements on the nongaming side.
And we're able to basically maintain on the casino side.
The gaming revenue as we've talked about it the slot win [ph] and the table games volume being flat.
So some pretty positive results given the level of competition.
And we're focused on margins there also trying to operate as efficiently as possible.
But I think it will continue to be a battle as we look forward over the next couple of quarters.
Okay Keith.
And then I guess last question for me was on Dania.
Could you just give us a little bit more color on the deal there? Since you -- and I know I'm sure it being in contract but specifically what I'm thinking of is do you guys have a hard deposit today? And just I guess how committed is the potential purchaser at this point? Just trying to get a sense because it does factor into the funding equation that kind of Josh referred to in his last answer.
We did see the $5 million nonrefundable deposit when we signed the contract or when the contract was signed.
They had spent or I should just say they are currently spending significant sums preparing for the ultimate closing of that transaction on architects and designers and meetings with the City Council and moving it forward.
They've had meetings with the people who live in the area and the surrounding community to let them know what their plans are.
So they are actively and aggressively kind of moving forward with respect to the projects.
But again we have a $5 million deposit we expect this to close late September.
They do have the ability to extend for 60 days under certain circumstances.
We at this point would expect it to close.
We don't have any information otherwise.
And Sean just as a clarification on my remarks to the extent the $250 million to $300 million of incremental financing that we would expect to do takes into consideration whether Dania closes or not.
So that number wouldn't go up if Dania didn't close by chance.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Greff.
Paul just want to clarify I think your comments or answers to the first question.
With respect to your 3Q guidance and how you're thinking about the fourth quarter.
Is it your expectation that you would actually see revenue growth in the Las Vegas Locals market? Well I think I mean I didn't talk about revenue growth specifically in the fourth quarter.
So I don't think you really missed anything there.
But my point I think to Felicia's earlier question relative to comparables and how those comparables roll out is we are very optimistic that we will continue to grow the business.
Obviously as we continue to move forward those types of -- that type of growth in EBITDA would naturally come with revenue growth.
And I think I even got specific into kind of property-by-property.
We're certainly not up year-over-year in every single case today.
But directionally we're going the right place.
Okay.
Then my follow-up question on that is in the locals market if we do see some level of net revenue growth say in the plus 1% to plus 5% range how much of that incremental revenue drops down to the EBITDA line? What's the flow-through on that? You obviously have done a great job in controlling expenses controlling margins.
How do you think about that flow-through? Well the flow-through will continue to run on a pretty substantial base.
Obviously marketing expense and labor are 2 kind of key components to the overall impact.
But generally the kind of rule of thumb you can use is a 1% increase in revenue is a 2% increase in EBITDA.
Okay.
And then on the IP can you give us a sense of EBITDA seasonality on a I guess quarterly basis over the last 4 quarters or if you want to look at it full year of 2010? I think the and not surprisingly the summer is the peak season along the Gulf Coast relative to certainly things like hotel occupancy and visitation.
I mean it's a summer destination.
But with that said there is quite a bit of snowbird travel in the winter and then the Biloxi market overall is very much a destination for the likes of golfers and sport fishers in the spring and fall as well.
So there isn't -- there is a bit of seasonality skewed to the summer but it is probably similar to what you see in other markets that have that same kind of makeup.
Great.
And then Josh I don't know if you gave capital expenditures for the second quarter if you can give us a sense of 3Q and 4Q CapEx? Yes.
In the second quarter we spent about $12.5 million on CapEx and that includes Borgata as well as Boyd.
So Boyd was about $6 million of that and Borgata was about obviously the remaining portion about $7 million.
I think at Boyd we have consistently kind of underspent our CapEx budgets.
And I think generally we had talked about spending somewhere between kind of $60 million and $70 million this year.
I think we're probably on a run rate to spend kind of $15 million in each of the next 2 quarters.
Your next question comes from the line of David Katz from Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to ask about the Las Vegas Locals market if I may and what the promotional environment is like.
We'd certainly heard some things and then we see your results which are pretty good.
If you could just talk about what that landscape has been like.
David this is Paul.
I think I mean obviously promotions take many different forms from very broad-based promotions to direct mail which is we've talked about in the past.
Direct mail is very much a tool we use quite considerably in focusing on kind of our key customer base.
And things ebb and flow between those between companies.
Right now you don't see in this town any significant broad-based public promotions but I think we factually know as our competitors know that there's quite a bit in the mailbox and through the various electronic forms of communication with customers.
So as we would consider reinvestment in the customer base continues to be at high levels.
Now we as a company have stayed away from some of the large ticket broad-based promotions because in all honesty we just haven't seen the types of returns on those that really made them make sense for us.
They can drive revenue there's no question about it.
And I'm sure they have driven revenue considerably for some of our competitors.
But it's always a challenge in making that flow to the EBITDA line.
And again we're just focused on where we can get the right types of returns on investment.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And one last one if I may and this may be an odd question.
It just hasn't come up for a while.
But you do have a Las Vegas Strip site that is there and circled on a map as an opportunity one day.
Has there been any discussion or any thought given to doing something there? David this is Keith.
We continue to monitor the progress of the recovery in the Las Vegas Strip and the Las Vegas market generally.
There are no active conversations today.
We obviously have a kind of as part of our longer range future plan to get reengaged in that site when the time is right.
But there's no current conversation about starting to redraw or anything of that nature on that site.
But it still is important to us as we look at the future of the company and still ultimately look to have a presence on the Las Vegas Strip as we look a few years down the road.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Ruggiero from CRT Capital.
A few questions here following up.
In the Las Vegas Locals markets a market you've improved margins notably.
And I wanted to get a better sense of if this was specific costs or if there's any easing in the Locals market vis--vis promotions especially coming off the Station Casino exit from bankruptcy.
Well Steve I think you know as I said I mean on the marketing side and the promotion side we have not seen any easing up of spending.
We again are just trying to focus on spending the right dollars in the right places.
And that is translated into really the numbers you see.
There's no real magic about them.
Okay.
And then this is not only for the Las Vegas Locals market but also for your other segments and that's your full-time equivalents.
When do you see a potential need especially with some of these properties generating some nice top line growth for your FTEs to start increasing again? Or is that something you can hold and check for the remainder of this year and even into the beginning of next year? Well I mean our Las Vegas Locals properties are very busy.
We've talked about in the past spend per visit which is really where the focus is.
Obviously through the decline in the economy folks have spent less.
That as we've said at the top ends of our database has started to recover.
And our property is relative to occupancy and just people in the building are running as full as they frankly ever have.
Our customer service scores and we use really a third-party group to touch base with our customers and give us an assessment on how we're doing are as good as they ever have been.
And so it's really a tribute to the group of employees we have.
As Keith talked about and obviously a first step is continuing to expand hours that people receive via scheduling.
But it's really about spend per person as opposed to more people in the building.
So you feel that you still have flexibility there to maintain your number of employees at this point? Is that the answer? Yes.
We absolutely do.
Okay.
And then one last quick question with regards to Downtown.
You'd stated that year-over-year there's about $1 million of incremental fuel cost related to your charter service in the second quarter that dragged that EBITDA down.
What do you see as the year-over-year fuel cost comparison for the third quarter? Well the third quarter is on from a charter-only standpoint going to probably run in that same zip code of $1 million higher.
Your next question comes from the line of Amir Markowitz with Morgan Stanley.
Just I guess a follow-up question on what you're talking about before about spend per visit levels.
Can you just I guess give a little more color about spend per visit trends in the Las Vegas Locals market over the past few quarters and kind of how this past quarter compared to those levels? Are you seeing any sort of improvement? As I said before in my comments about the database overall we have seen improvements in the top 2 tiers of the database amongst all 3 of the regions.
So that's Locals Downtown and the Midwest and South.
So that directly translates into spend per visit.
Okay.
And just one more follow-up.
I guess looking at the Las Vegas Locals market it looked like overall at least through May it was kind of up low-single digits let's say.
So is it fair to assume that the apparent I guess share losses in the market reflect your competitor's increased promotional activity? Or was there something else going on? Well I mean I think obviously the numbers that you see reported by any state including Nevada relate to revenues.
And we've talked quite a bit on this call about marketing spend and inefficiency and reinvestment in the customer base.
There's certainly -- if we were totally focused on revenue we could do an awful lot to drive the revenue number but I don't think anybody would be very happy with the ultimate bottom line performance.
And some of our competitors have taken different approaches to that relative to how they have looked at continued reinvestment in their customers.
So revenue numbers are kind of what they are and I would suggest that they aren't necessarily the end-all and be-all as it relates to ultimate profitability.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Learner from Union Gaming.
My question is really one of strategy or more strategic I guess in nature related to the IP.
And I don't think -- I know you talked about the transaction but I don't think you touched on this guys.
What's the strategy there? I mean it sounds like it's going to be an accretive deal.
It rounds out the regional story further for you.
In the not too distant past you wanted to bulk up in Las Vegas Locals and that didn't play out as you may have hoped.
But I'm just wondering is this isolated in that it's accretive and it's a trade for the network or is this where you'd likely direct capital in regionals going forward? This is Keith.
We've talked about strategically in the past looking for acquisitions that we think are a good fit to help us to diversify our asset base.
That tend to be more market leaders and that will provide a good return.
In this case.
I think that IP fits the bill and it clearly is in the top 2 assets in the market.
It clearly as you said is accretive to the company it provides a great return.
It helps -- it drives -- continue to geographically diversify the company.
In terms of specific markets we're somewhat agnostic as to what market it is whether it is the Midwest or the South or Las Vegas.
If it provides a good return and it helps to further diversify the asset base and they are market-leading properties we are interested in the acquisition.
So we look at a lot of things.
We'll continue to look at a lot of things but it has got to be a good fit and it's got to fit those.
I hope that answered your question.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Simkins from Crdit Suisse.
A couple of quick questions.
First you may eventually have another competitor in Lake Charles if Dan Lee gets financing and similarly if this license moves from that market into Shreveport.
Just curious how you're positioning both your assets in those markets longer-term? With respect to the Lake Charles market I think we've said for a long time that the more people you put on I-10 heading into Lake Charles given our position in the market and being first into the market we certainly like our position.
We've got a great asset there.
So that property obviously is a number of years off from being developed and we'll continue to [indiscernible] our property to reap the benefits of more people being on I-10 crossing from Houston into the Lake Charles area.
We're positive about there being additional traffic.
I'll let Paul talk about the Shreveport asset.
Well I think look the Shreveport market is we've touched on and everyone has seen has been challenged by more and more competition in neighboring states that have focused on the Dallas market in particular and that's come from the State of Oklahoma and Native American tribes that have built very substantial operations up in that market.
I think as it relates to the proposed project in Boger City that's been discussed again we haven't seen a lot of depth in that market overall.
And I think it's certainly a challenging market to consider additional capacity coming in.
And one final follow-up here on the Borgata.
I think you're embarking or you may have embarked already on this rooms renovating.
Can you just give us a sense of the scope of that project the timing of completion potential disruption and sort of maybe what specifically you're do to each room et cetera? The project will include all the rooms in the original Borgata Hotel.
It will be completed between generally the fourth quarter the fall of this year and late spring of next year.
We would expect all those rooms to be completely remodeled before [indiscernible] opens.
And it is a pretty complete renovation.
We'll be touching all of the parts of the room from the furniture to carpet and wallpaper and the like.
So it's a comprehensive overhaul of the rooms and we'll be done by the time [indiscernible] reopens.
And I think relative to the question about disruption you can go through this process and obviously you have a couple of floors out of service at a time.
But managing it through certain seasons of the year you clearly have rooms available gone.
It is not frankly very disruptive to the overall business at all.
At this time you have no further questions in the queue.
I will now turn the call back over to Josh Hirsberg for closing remarks.
Please proceed sir.
Thanks Alicia.
We had a very good quarter and we really don't see those trends changing for our wholly-owned business going forward.
We appreciate you participating in the call.
And to the extent you have follow-up questions feel free to reach out to the company and we'll be available to answer those questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to the Boyd Gaming Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Josh Hirsberg Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Amy.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call this morning are Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Paul Chakmak our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Comments today will include statements relating to our estimated future results including among others guidance for the fourth quarter financial outlook for the company our expansion and development projects and other market business and property trends that are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of today's data and we undertake no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those noted in our earnings release our periodic reports and our other filings with the SEC.
During our call today we will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
For a complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the Investors section of our website at boydgaming.com.
I'll provide reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures due to our new ability to deduct special charges and certain expenses.
Finally we are broadcasting this call on our website at boydgaming.com.
I'd like to turn the call over to Keith Smith our President and CEO.
Keith? Thanks Josh.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for our third quarter earnings call.
On our last 2 calls we discussed the EBITDA growth we were seeing in our wholly-owned business.
I'm pleased to report that the positive momentum we experienced in the first 2 quarters of this year continued during the third quarter.
The third quarter represented the third consecutive quarter we posted EBITDA growth in our wholly-owned operations.
For the quarter EBITDA grew more than 17% and was the second consecutive quarter that all 3 regions reported year-over-year EBITDA gains.
But more important than 3 consecutive quarters of EBITDA growth was the performance of our Las Vegas Locals region.
This region led the company with an 18% EBITDA gain for the quarter and it is the second straight quarter of improved EBITDA in this region.
Locals business is moving in the right direction.
From an economic standpoint the recovery of the Las Vegas tourism industry is continuing.
Were looking at 18 straight months of increased visitations 18 straight months of increased room rates increases in convention business and sales tax numbers.
Coupled with employment numbers it is clear we are heading in the right direction.
Our Midwest and South region continues the strong performance with its fourth straight quarters of EBITDA expansion.
This is clear proof that the economic recovery that has -- has taken a firm hold in the region.
Compared to previous quarters strength in the region was widespread particularly in our properties in southern Louisiana.
And the Downtown region continued to show revenue and EBITDA growth as well with our focus on the Hawaiian market driving strong increases in play and visitation.
In Atlantic City the Borgata has been our most challenging segment this year but there are reasons to be optimistic.
The purchase of Borgata achieved a gain in revenue market share of nearly 20% for the third quarter an all-time record.
Second absent the effects of Hurricane Irene we believe Borgata would have reported year-over-year growth in both revenue and EBITDA during the quarter.
Overall our third quarter results clearly show our strategy of providing an exceptional customer experience and keeping a tight rein and costs this is paying off on the bottom line positioning the company for further growth as the economy improves.
During more recent developments the most significant event for the company occurred on October 4 our acquisition of the IP Biloxi which is a leading property in one of the country's largest gaming markets a valuable addition to our nationwide portfolio.
We believe we can generate significant new visitation by integrating the IP to our B Connected player loyalty program and cross-marketing the IP with our other properties.
As of September 30 IP generated about $36 million in LTM EBITDA.
This is below the levels we discussed in May when we announced the transaction and this is due mainly to a lost Labor Day weekend from tropical storm Leah and lower gaming volumes during the quarter in both the IP and Locals market in general [ph].
We remain confident about the prospects with this property and its ability to not only contribute to our future success but also to provide a meaningful return on our investment.
Along those lines we continue to project we'll be able to realize a minimum of $5 million of additional EBITDA from the IP.
This is a result of operating efficiencies made possible by being part of a large nationwide gaming company.
We are optimistic our savings will be ultimately be in excess of that amount.
In addition to these savings we expect to see the benefits from cross-property marketing efforts which will only further improve the performance of the property.
In Florida the sale of Dania Jai Alai has been extended to no later than November 28 after the buyers exercise their options to extend closing in exchange for a nonrefundable $2 million payment.
Combined with the initial $5 million payment the buyers made a total of $7 million in payments on this transaction to-date.
Exactly what's working towards the closing of this transaction is certainly focused on secured financing.
I'd like to offer a few comments on our strategy moving forward.
As we look ahead we remain confident that we're positioned well for future growth in our core business.
We will remain focused on delevered -- or delivering great customer service controlling costs and driving visitations through B Connected our industry-leading customer loyalty program.
We will also continue to focus on strengthening our financial profile actively managing our balance sheet and deleveraging and diversifying our asset base and sources of cash flow.
Our strategy for diversifying our revenue stream has helped support our business over the past several years.
We continue to look for opportunities to grow through strategic acquisitions like IP but purchasing existing operations is not the only avenue for generating growth for us.
We look also at compelling opportunities to grow our business through development agreements and management contracts in markets that complement our core business in other lines of business such as online gaming.
As the conversation about the legalization of online poker continues to gain momentum we're working aggressively to position the company to take advantage of opportunities that may arise should Congress enact legislation related to the online gaming environment.
As weve noted previously we cannot control the national economy or the recovery of consumer spend but as you can see from our third quarter results we can ensure that Boyd Gaming is managed efficiently and is positioned for growth.
Thank you again for joining us this morning.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Paul to talk in more specifics about the results in these 4 regions.
Paul? Thanks Keith.
Hello everybody.
We're pleased with our results from the third quarter.
Every region in our wholly-owned business generated EBITDA growth as margins improved by 270 basis points.
First let's look at our Las Vegas Locals business.
This was an exceptional quarter from an operating perspective.
The region's 18% EBITDA growth led the company and margins rose by an impressive 320 basis points.
This performance was the result of our continued focus on ensuring we maximize returns on our marketing dollars as well as greater efficiencies throughout the business.
We saw growth at 3 of our 4 major local properties led once again by the Orleans.
EBITDA rose 28% at the Orleans during the quarter making its fourth straight quarter of growth as revenue increased as well.
The Orleans provided a powerful example of how our refined cost structure will allow us to flow through a significant amount of future revenue growth to the bottom line.
The elevated promotional environment is continuing as well.
Our largest competitor has been the most active in this respect launching its second major marketing initiative in less than a year.
At the high end they are now matching what we have been offering our best customers for quite some time.
We take a targeted approach that we believe is more strategic disciplined and profitable.
We do not compete through mass advertising campaigns; rather we focus on developing a personal relationship with our best customers giving them a consistently entertaining experience and communicating with them through various direct marketing channels.
As a result our customers continue to choose our brands in spite of a heightened promotional environment in the Locals market.
To-date we have seen no impact on business volumes due to our competitor's campaigns.
And looking to the fourth quarter we anticipate that EBITDA growth will continue in the region.
Moving to Downtown Las Vegas we saw continued strength as EBITDA rose nearly 6% on higher revenues.
It's important to note that this EBITDA growth came despite an $850 000 year-over-year increase in fuel costs at our Hawaiian charter service a trend that we expect to continue in the fourth quarter.
At the property operating level EBITDA rose about 11% as all 3 properties recorded year-over-year growth.
This performance is being driven by growing strength in our Hawaiian customer segment; visitation and play among geographic Hawaiians was up significantly during the third quarter.
There are several factors playing in our favor in Hawaii.
First and foremost Hawaii's economy has been strong providing our customers greater confidence and more discretionary income.
And second we continue to be successfully in marketing to our Hawaiian customers which help drive growth in this market segment.
Importantly we are better positioned to take advantage of growing demand from Hawaii after putting a Boeing 767 into service on our Hawaiian charter route earlier this month.
This aircraft gives us 12% increase in available seats allowing us to fly in more than 6 000 additional customers per year based on our current 5-flight-per-week rotation while improving the customer experience.
In the Midwest and South we reported our fourth straight quarter of EBITDA growth.
4 of our 6 properties posted year-over-year EBITDA improvement.
Treasure Chest led the region with a 21% EBITDA increase followed by a 16% gain at Delta Downs.
We are particularly encouraged by record monthly EBITDA results at Delta Downs during both July and September.
The Midwest and South region and southern Louisiana in particular has shown relative resilience over the last several years.
That trend continued during the quarter and demonstrates why geographic diversification is such an important strategy for our company.
Our success in this region is about much more than simply going along with the economic tide.
Our marketing initiatives have been very effective in driving business to our properties.
Weve kept a tight control on costs as well further improving our margins during the third quarter.
In Atlantic City we are encouraged by results at Borgata.
We believe the property would've reported increases in both revenue and EBITDA during the third quarter had it not been the forced closure in late August due to Hurricane Irene.
We estimate that the impact of the hurricane including the closure of the property for 3 days cost Borgata more than $6 million in EBITDA and over $10 million in revenue.
If you factor out this closure we believe Borgata would've reported increases in both revenue and EBITDA which would have been its first year-over-year EBITDA increase in 2 years.
In September for example the property reported an 11% year-over-year increase in gross gaming revenue.
We finished the quarter with a 24% share of table game drop in Atlantic City which is an all-time record.
And as we saw during the second quarter table hold was stable at 13% in line with our expectations.
The property's non-gaming business continues to perform well as cash ADRs are up throughout the quarter.
Looking forward we see reasons to be cautiously optimistic over the next several quarters.
Finally I wanted to discuss some of the successes we have seen with B Connected our nationwide customer loyalty program.
Since we launched B Connected in 2007 it has become our company's unifying brand giving our customers an incentive to visit Boyd Gaming casinos across the country.
It has been and will continue to be a key driver of growth for our company and we believe this program will be further strengthened when we add the IP to B Connected by the end of the first quarter of 2012.
Over the last several years we have worked to strengthen B Connected with a robust online and mobile presence.
And since its launch in 2009 according to compete.com B Connected Online has become the most visited website of its kind in the gaming industry.
And starting last year we further expanded the power of B Connected with the launch of dedicated mobile applications for the iPhone iPad and Android making B Connected Mobile the first app of its kind available on multiple platforms.
B Connected Online and B Connected Mobile give our guests highly personalized and constantly updated information and offers that generate better customer experiences and greater loyalty to our brands.
These tools help customers get the greatest value out of their B Connected membership and ensure that our marketing is effective as possible.
And earlier this month the American Gaming Association recognized B Connected Online and B Connected Mobile as the best website and best mobile app in the industry.
To recap the third quarter saw continued improvement in our operations as each of our 3 wholly-owned regions continue to generate year-over-year EBITDA growth.
In the months ahead well remain disciplined and focused on providing our customers with outstanding experience and consistent value.
Thanks for your time today.
And now over to Josh.
Thank you Paul.
Let me start with a few items from the quarter.
Starting with the balance sheet excluding Borgata Boyd's debt balance at the end of the third quarter was approximately $2.4 billion with $1.4 billion was outstanding under our $2 billion credit facility.
Borgata's debt balance was $806 million of which $15 million was outstanding under their $150 million credit facility.
Immediately following the quarter we consummated the acquisition of IP Biloxi for a purchase price of $288 million.
Purchase was financed with cash on hand and a borrowing under our credit facility of approximately $200 million.
Pro forma for the acquisition Boyd has approximately $2.6 billion in outstanding with approximately $415 million outstanding on our credit facilities maturing in May of 2012 and $215 million of availability under our credit facility that matures in December of 2015.
We've stated in the original announcement of the IP acquisition the company expects to raise approximately $300 million between now and the end of the first quarter next year.
We are moving along several paths to complete this financing.
We're very comfortable with where we stand in that process.
Moving to the income statement.
Depreciation expense in the quarter was $46 million a decrease of approximately $6.4 million from the prior year.
Boyd's depreciation expense represented approximately $31 million of that number which compares to $36 million in the third quarter of last year.
The increase in depreciation expense is due to our reduced capital expenditure program.
Borgata's depreciation expense of $15.2 million was approximately $1 million below the third quarter last year.
Prior to adjustments related to acquisition accounting we expect depreciation expense in the fourth quarter to include $4 million to $5 million related to the IP acquisition.
Pre-opening expense was $4.4 million in the quarter excluding the effects of the consolidation of Las Vegas Energy.
Again excluding the impacts of consolidating Las Vegas Energy interest expenses for the quarter was $55.1 million.
Operating expense at Boyd was $34 million for the quarter an increase of approximately $5.5 million over the prior year affecting the impact of our financing activities in the second half of last year offset by approximately $6 million due to the expiration of outstanding swap contracts.
Interest expense for Borgata was $21 million for the quarter and $7 million over prior year again due to financing activities that occurred in the later portion of 2010.
Other income during the quarter of $1 million was related to payments from the disposition of Dania that contribute towards the purchase price.
The tax provision in the third quarter was 23.75%.
Now let's turn our attention to guidance for the fourth quarter.
As we did for the third quarter we will provide quarterly EBITDA and EPS guidance.
Because we consolidated Borgata's financial results we'll provide separate EBITDA guidance for Borgata and provide guidance for adjusted EPS for the consolidated business including both the wholly-owned segments of Boyd and Borgata.
We expect wholly-owned EBITDA which includes corporate expense to be in the range of $73 million to $78 million inclusive of IP's results.
Absent hurricanes and earthquakes we expect Borgata to generate EBITDA of $34 million to $37 million compared to $34 million last year in the fourth quarter.
With this range of EBITDA guidance including IP's results adjusted EPS for the fourth quarter is expected to range from income of $0.01 per share to a loss of $0.04 per share.
Operator that concludes our remarks.
We're now ready for any question from participants on the call.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Felicia Hendrix of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> So my first question is on the Las Vegas Locals market.
I was wondering if one of you can just give us some color on how the rate of growth trended in the quarter right.
I know it ended up flat but I was wondering if it looked better at the beginning of the quarter if you saw any change? And then also wondering what you're seeing now.
You do face tougher comps in the fourth quarter.
Keith you did allude to continued growth but I'm just wondering if you could give us some more color on what you're seeing in the fourth quarter so far.
Yes Felicia it's Paul.
I think as far as the impact of growth within the quarter overall the summer is obviously typically the slower part of the business for the Las Vegas Locals segment overall.
The business overall is -- has continued to improve and if we go back a number of quarters the rate of decline obviously continued to lessen and we've said it was a chance for us finally to post a year-over-year revenue increase for the segment overall.
I think the Locals -- the true Locals business is obviously the most challenged.
Las Vegas is going through its continued recovery and on the long road ahead.
Not surprisingly as I said the Orleans led the performance overall and I think that has a lot to do with the destination business that accounts for roughly 60% of the Orleans overall business and to some extent mirrors what you've been hearing from strip operators as well.
From just a nuts and bolts perspective on the gaming side overall relatively stable trends when you adjust for practicality of the summer itself.
Sports overall certainly had some impact as our customers played very lucky in August and September.
And so that in its own right would've had a more negative impact on the quarter to the back end.
Research Division</strong> And then just looking forward a little bit I'm just wondering as you think through next year can you see continued -- can your non-gaming amenities still continue to grow or do you need gaming growth in 2012 just actually keep that trajectory of improving rate of growth continuing? Well I think I mean our expectation in the Las Vegas Locals business is we'll see it on both sides.
I mean we've seen some pretty good improvement on the non-gaming site particularly in the hotel cash ADR aspects of the business.
And so that's a positive and obviously has very significant flow-through in its own right.
Since its up and existing cost structure it hasnt really changed.
But overall on the gaming side of the business we'd continue to see modest but certainly positive improvements throughout the Locals business.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just my final question just switching gears over to the IP.
I know you all said you were confident in the growth but as we think about the rest of the fourth quarter and into the beginning of '12 I'm wondering should we use the EBITDA -- the rate of EBITDA that you mentioned on the call or should -- as a benchmark or should we revert back to prior expectations? I think from our perspective our expectations are for the properties to do what we stated when we made the announcement.
I think there were some kind of extenuating circumstances that make the LTM EBITDA went off of September 30 not the number that we're building from.
And I think that obviously there's typically some disruption that goes on around transitions and other factors that affect what happened in the last quarter but I think we're very confident that the property has a lot of upside from where it is today.
We've talked about the $5 million of synergies and weve alluded to that we think theres more than that.
But we just need to get in there and get comfortable with what's going on; great property a great set of employees and a very good market from our perspective but we also see a lot of opportunity for that asset being part of Boyd overall.
The next question comes from Joel Simkins at Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Yes I guess the first question I have for you guys was Massachusetts.
How much time are you spending there? We haven't really heard your name in the mix.
Is this something you're focused on -- focusing on at this point? Joel this is Keith.
I can affirmatively state that we are not in Massachusetts at all so if there's a rumor out there that we are associated with somebody it's just that its a rumor.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it does seem like Dan Lee and Mojito Pointe are getting a little bit closer to getting capital.
Clearly they affiliated with MGM last week.
Obviously Delta Downs is an important regional property for you.
I know it's a couple of years away but how are you thinking about incremental competition in Lake Charles and how you prepare for it? I think that Delta has been performing well over the last year and has been an important part of the Midwest and South region since we purchased it.
We've said over the years that more traffic along I-10 is good for us at Delta Downs because we are the first stop as you cross over the border from Texas and Louisiana and we just think about it that way that if you put more traffic along that highway we will get our fair share because the reality is that we run pretty full on that capacity on weekends on Fridays and Saturdays and so it's really the mid-week opportunities and if they put more people on the highway mid-week to go into Lake Charles we will get a fair share.
So it's a few years away; we'll continue to run a great operation.
We'll continue to give all our guests a great experience and make sure they maintain -- or they remain loyal to our property.
Putting more people kind of on the road and moving passed us is a positive in our opinion.
Research Division</strong> And Keith you spoke earlier about online gaming.
Clearly you guys are very active on a national and local level on this topic.
Can you give us a sense of sort of the timeline in the rest of the year what we can expect in terms of online? And if nothing happens this year do you think it's sort of a moot topic as we head into election season eventually next year? The conversation of online gaming is interesting obviously.
It's something that is regulated and regulated in tax in so many countries around the world.
It just doesn't happen to be here in the U.S.
given our policies here.
There are tens of thousands of jobs and billions of dollars of tax revenues at stake so its clearly something that we are supporting to look into and try and get past.
While we're in the gambling business this is a topic I don't think I'd be willing to venture a guess as to how it plays out over the next several months.
We're actively working it.
I think there is a lot of -- there are a lot of dialogues going on in Congress right now.
Well try to move this forward.
If it doesn't happen in this session I don't think it's -- I don't think the conversation is over.
I think that it will continue some of the relevant conversation on this if not only as a way to protect consumers today who participate in this activity.
There's millions of Americans per year that participate in this activity so we'll continue to work on it.
I -- predicting a timeline is very difficult.
The next question comes from Joe Greff at JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Paul looking back at the Locals market in the third quarter were your gaming revenues up year-over-year or is it more of a function that the contra revenues were down? The contra revenues meaning promotional expense Joe? Research Division</strong> Yes correct.
I don't -- I mean we obviously don't break out that level of detail overall.
I think we can kind of stick with what we said.
Overall we continue to see improvement in all kind of aspects of the business gaming and non-gaming.
Promotional expenses are driven a lot by slot dollars that are actively used to reward customers for coming in and they tend to honestly ebb and flow with the volumes overall.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Josh what's the tax rate you're incorporating in the fourth quarter? I'm using the same tax rates that we had in Q3 because that's kind of just the best information I have right now.
Our tax rate is pretty volatile just given the level of income that we're generating versus some of the permanent tax adjustments that are always there and make the tax rate move around.
So it's truly more tied to just the order of magnitude of the income.
But for the estimates that I've used I've used the rate from Q3.
Our next question comes from Dennis Forst at KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple.
Paul how do you look at your market share in the Locals market? Do you take it as a share of some standard number which is a combination of the Boulder Strip and the North Las Vegas? Most of us do it that way including the balance of the county and we add up the gaming revenue and then try and look at the market share on that.
But what do you look at for your market share? Well it really depends on the property Dennis.
As it relates to Sam's Town which is obviously on the Boulder Strip and on the east side of town we look at it relative to the Boulder Strip region.
Now in fairness the Boulder Strip region for various reasons includes the M and Green Valley Ranch which arent on the Boulder Strip and are obviously significant properties in their own right.
So that grouping gets clouded by the impact of properties that really arent in the kind of mix concentric mix geographically being part of that region so you just have to account for it best you can.
There's no really clear information.
As it relates to The Orleans The Gold Coast and the Suncoast we look at them relative to balance of county though in fairness the Gold Coast is included in the strip numbers as reported by the Gaming Control Board and so we obviously have to do our own work to factor it out and then move it into the balance of county.
Again very large segment overall in very different geographic locations within the city but it's kind of the best mix you possibly can use to compare them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Has your market share the way you calculate it gone up year-to-date and in the third quarter? Market share overall for us has been relatively flat and that is frankly where Id just as soon have it be it's pretty easy to move market share from a gaming revenue perspective by just simply enhancing the types of offers because these are all gross revenue type net calculations.
So if we were solely here to grow market share we could do it frankly very quickly in a very unprofitable way.
But again the focus clearly continues to be on EBITDA as opposed to gross gaming revenue.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then Josh I had a couple of questions on write-downs.
I think you had a $2.3 million write-down charge in the quarter.
What was that? That was a combination of 2 items.
It's acquisition-related costs and then the other item in that line item was expenses related to the Tunica flooding actually.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are the acquisition costs now completed through the third quarter? Will there be any slop over in the fourth? There might be a few but nothing immaterial.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you explained the other income of $1 million coming from a Dania payment.
There was also an other expense of exactly $1 million that I thought was somewhat coincidental.
What was that? That's Dania because the SEC does not allow us to include that in any of our operating segments so that's separated out into an other expense.
So that's still the operating expenses associated with Dania.
Think of it as EBITDA from Dania being a negative million on the quarter.
The next question comes from Shaun Kelley at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So Josh did you give the cash balance? I apologize I was writing quickly but the cash balance for both the company and Borgata at the end of the quarter if I missed it? I didn't and I don't know that I have that number readily available.
Let me try.
Yes I don't have that number Shaun.
I can get it for you though.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just -- could we just -- like just the sources and uses for the deal here because you drew down $200 million and the rest came from cash.
I guess the question that we have is really how are you -- if you're planning on raising $300 million kind of what tools do you guys have at your disposal to do so? I believe there's a basket that is available to you guys under your  in an accordion feature for your bank facility.
But one to get a better sense of kind of the cost of funds there and kind of what different paths you guys might be looking at to bridge that gap.
I think our -- the company's best position is to just let that play out.
We have a lot of options from moving up and down the capital structure to execute our financing and I think we'll just kind of leave it at that.
I think folks have conjectured about doing different types of financing and I would say those are all available to us.
I don't think that people are just thinking about the company issuing high yield notes or thinking broad enough in terms of what our options are.
Research Division</strong> Then I guess to be a little bit more broad would equity be on the table there? I think that for the right kind of acquisition and strategic acquisition and something that is transformative in nature the company would consider equity as long as it creates a good value for shareholders.
IP is a good acquisition for us but it's a plug-in type acquisition.
It's not a transformative type of acquisition.
Our preference at this point is not equity.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess on Dania you guys -- you had implied back when you announced the IP that you were going to use the proceeds from Dania to help finance the deal but now things seem like they're getting extended out.
So I mean I don't know if you can give us any more color on the buyers here but did the buyers have financing to close this deal and is your operating assumption that they close or don't close at this point in terms of the financing that you'd be raising the $300 million? What I would say is that we never have counted on Dania closing in order to finance our transactions.
I mean that was [indiscernible] I think folks should recognize that when we announced IP we did it with our eyes wide open in terms of the period of time we'd just come through in terms of 2008 through 2010.
So we didn't do it expecting that -- kind of hoping for Dania to close or hoping for a high-yield market to be there.
We did it understanding here's our range of possibility and making sure we have the flexibility and the alternatives available to us so that if certain things don't happen we kind of go through our playbook pull out the play and start executing on one of those alternatives.
That's basically what we're doing now.
We have a lot of different alternatives.
We're kind of moving forward on all of those and when one of them kind of seems better than the other we'll execute on it.
But Dania was not part of the financing solution.
It was certainly a way to have more cash and reduces the need but we always said we're going to raise $300 million.
If we don't get Dania we're still going to raise $300 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I guess my last question would be on just the pricing behind the IP deal.
I mean from the time you guys announced it to the obvious closing in October the capital markets changed quite a bit.
You also saw the fundamentals of the properties start to change and I guess.
I think you called out a tropical storm or something that had a bit of an impact there.
We did see the Gulf Coast numbers were fairly light in August and September but I mean the number is down 10% 12% there and then the capital markets to the cost of capital becoming higher.
Did you guys -- I mean why not consider changing your underwriting for that or at least postponing until there get to be a little bit more clarity? Why the need to close that deal so quickly? Well I think -- again if you think about it from our earlier comments and others of my associates can chime in.
But from our perspective we had thought about circumstances such as what are playing out here today.
Maybe not exactly the same ones but we said look what happens if x happens or y happens? We didn't go into IP going well we sure hope that the world is exactly like it is today and everything is okay.
We were prepared for things to not play out the way they were when we entered the IP transaction when we made that announcement.
And we just continue to evaluate it.
I think what people should recognize is is that our view of IP has several components associated with it in terms of making it a good value for the company.
And market growth is one of those but it's not the only one.
I would say it's pretty far down the list.
My perspective is that the opportunities for us at IP come from again plugging it into Boyd and getting the benefits of being part of a big bear [ph] company and that means not only synergies out below the line but also revenue-related synergies from being able to plug it into our systems and benefit from being part of a big loyalty-based card program.
And we see that working both ways for both the IP customers and the Boyd-related customers.
Yes this is Keith.
I think the other thing you have to keep in mind is we did sign the contract that had the property or our acquisition closing when certain closing conditions were met.
Once they were met we had an obligation to close the property.
I think the softness we saw over the summer while we're focused on it is not our primary concern.
The more we learn about this business the more opportunities we see.
And I guess Josh indicated earlier were every bit as confident today about the numbers we talked about when we announced the transaction; we're as confident today as we were then.
We believe the synergies are greater.
One of the things that I think happened at the property over the quarter when the revenues dropped they probably didn't manage the business as aggressively as a larger company like ours may have managed it.
And so we think there's -- once again a good opportunity there to run this business to a much higher level than the property has seen in the past.
So we remain very confident about the prospects for that property.
The next question comes from Carlo Santarelli of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Josh if you wouldn't mind could you outline a little bit some of your uses of free cash flow as it relates to maintenance CapEx both at Borgata and at the rest of your properties? And then also have you guys kind of talked through your expectations? As we've seen revenues change here to the positive on a year-over-year comparison in the Locals market as we move into 2012 how do you guys think about flow-through on incremental revenue growth? Carlo I think I understand your first question.
If I don't answer it please just let me know.
I think from our perspective our free cash flow is going to be used to continue to maintain our properties at a level that we think is necessary to be competitive.
I think we have a competitive advantage today in -- versus our competition in terms of those products and the condition of our properties.
So that affects how we think about what we spend going forward.
When we get beyond regular maintenance capital I think the free cash flow is going to be -- is going to deleverage the business.
We do generate a lot of free cash flow as part of the ongoing business and that will be a result of IP acquisition we believe over time.
Our maintenance capital runs about -- probably this year about $70 million; maybe a little bit less than that up $15 million in the quarter.
And at Borgata they have underway a room refurb which will be done on kind of the first quarter next year.
That total refinished project is about $50 million or so.
It was originally kind of evenly weighted between the 2 years of fourth quarter this year and first quarter next year so as usual kind of some of the spend that will drag out into -- or some of the payments will drag out into more to our first quarter next year.
Thats generally kind of where we're -- how we're thinking about that.
And we spent about $8 million in the third quarter related to Borgata's maintenance.
[indiscernible] Borgata's maintenance is probably in the $15 million to $20 million range and Boyd's just probably upwards of $80 million.
Carlo with respect to your comment on flow-through [indiscernible] we provided comments [indiscernible] to that.
I think we've worked very hard over the last several years and continue to work hard to make sure this business runs as efficiently as possible as we're able -- look every -- kind of every day we wake up and find a little additional tweaks we can implement to make sure it does that.
[indiscernible] on the flow-through that we would expect going forward is from in north of 60%.
I can tell you that we're seeing well north of that today as we get incremental revenue we're seeing a high degree of flow-through and we're very pleased by that.
It's what once again you see it in the margins you see in the profitability.
But as we look into next year for every additional dollar of revenue that we're able to grow we focus on profitable revenues that if you can expect 60% or more will flow to the bottom line.
Paul? I don't think I can really add anything to that.
I think the amount of flow through obviously varies region by region state by state depending on gaming taxes.
To my earlier point in some cases non-gaming revenue flow-through is actually  if it's on the hotel side and on the cash ADR side much higher than even the gaming revenue flow-through.
The next question comes from David Katz at Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to -- did you -- if I missed it I apologize -- did you give out what both maintenance and any other CapEx was for the quarter? And did you comment on what we can expect CapEx-wise going forward and what that would be for? Is there anything going into IP? Well I just answered that question but I'll try again.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I apologize.
Okay Dave.
So Boyd was about $15 million in the third quarter related to maintenance.
Our run rate probably for this year is about $70 million.
We'll probably come in a little bit less than that I would expect.
For next year Boyd without kind of IP is probably $75 million to $80 million.
And Borgata is about $8 million of maintenance for the third quarter and they have -- they'll end up spending probably -- on top of that this year probably about $20 million and capital related to their room refinishment project.
So their normal maintenance would be normally around $15 million to $20 million and then about $20 million for the room refinish.
Next year they'll probably have a similar amount of maintenance capital related to both the room refinishment and the Borgata maintenance so again $15 million to $20 million of maintenance and probably a little bit more for the refinishment project related to just the cost of the spend.
So may end up spending about $25 million to $30 million for that project.
IP should be about $44 million of maintenance that we mentioned when we acquired that asset.
Now as this largely spend in the first half to 3 quarters of next year although it will be a little bit of spend in the fourth quarter of this year probably $5 million or so.
Your next question comes from Kevin Coyne at Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> If I could just turn to IP real quickly as it relates to the synergies.
Can you just confirm those are basically all expense synergies and can you give us a sense at how it will take 12 months to eventually get to the full run rate or how long do you think it will take? Kevin this is Keith.
Some from our media we talked about $5 million and we also talked about our confidence at that number growing frankly quite a bit over the course of time.
And every day that we spend there we learn more about the areas that we can make more efficient.
There are some areas that will have an immediate impact and there are some areas that are contractual and will take more time to bring them in as part of Boyd Gaming's larger national purchasing power or their efforts then matures as contracts run their course when the contracts run their course so I think you should look at it as north of $5 million in the first year.
We'll take a year to get to that run rate.
It won't happen on day 1.
It wouldn't happen in the first quarter.
It will take a year.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then if we could just ask -- if I could just ask a question on I guess the cross-marketing opportunities.
I guess as you think about it obviously you're going to mine the B Connected database in the region.
But what would be your let's say ideal increase in visitation to IP as you bring new people to the property who have -- who maybe haven't been there before? Well I mean as you would expect there is and I think I explained in the last call there's quite a bit of less traffic that runs through the Biloxi market.
And with properties to the west that both Delta and Treasure Chest and the fact that Treasure Chest is truly a Locals casino frankly very similar to say the Suncoast here in Las Vegas no tower rooms at Treasure Chest.
Most of our customers come within 5-ish mile radius given what we have to offer with very very high frequency.
And those same folks very actively frequent the Biloxi market as well.
It's about a 90-minute getaway from where they are located.
So the amount of folks in the database is significant.
Obviously now that we own the place we can compare the 2 databases together and make offers as appropriate to Boyd customers that haven't been to IP and then also take the IP customer base who is from a larger geographic area and offer many more amenities at all of our properties throughout the region.
Research Division</strong> And then just one housekeeping.
I saw a minor I guess gain on retirement of debt I believe at the Borgata.
Can you just give us some color on what that was? And related to that did you buyback any debt subsequent to the quarter? Kevin you're very perceptive.
We bought back some bonds in the third quarter related to Borgata.
It was $8.5 million worth of bonds.
The next question comes from Mark Strawn at Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on the IP.
Could you give us a sense of what peak EBITDA was in kind of maybe the '06 '07 timeframe? We're really not able to disclose that number as you would expect for our contracts with them.
But as you'd expect to happen in the year following Katrina when they were the first to open in the market so it was quite some time ago.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any sense of kind of sustainable margins in that business at that time or is that also something you can't disclose? The market was just so different following Katrina and you saw it in our numbers at Treasure Chest as well back in that time.
But there -- it was just an anomaly that will probably and hopefully never repeat itself again in all honesty because these circumstances were just so odd.
The next question comes from Joe Greff at JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Guys a follow-up and I apologize if you mentioned it I didn't catch it.
LTM for IP gave us EBITDA.
Did you give us what EBITDA margins were? We did not.
Research Division</strong> Can you give it to us or is that also in the category of "we can't give it out"? Actually we will give it out but we don't have it at our fingertips so it's just nothing we were prepared to discuss.
I think we believe that LTM EBITDA is reflective of how we're looking at the business going forward.
The next question comes from John Maxwell at Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up Josh on the $8.5 million of Borgata bonds that was repurchased during the September quarter or subsequent to the end of the quarter? Third quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry? It was purchased during the third quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Could you -- did you purchase any after or do we have to wait for the fourth quarter to see that? You have to wait sorry.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- I guess Paul or Keith just with the opening of Aqueduct do you expect anything or is that really not going to be as much of a competitive threat to you as maybe some of the other guys at Atlantic City? Based on what  based on the intelligence we have it sounds like Aqueduct could probably open towards the end of this month to the first part of next month.
Probably it'll have some small impact on Atlantic City.
We don't expect it to have any real impact on the Borgata operation.
As we look at our database with where customers are from and we looking at our business we don't expect to have any adverse effects from the opening of that.
Our next question comes from Lawrence Klatzkin at Klatzkin Advisors.
Just going back to Atlantic City.
Revel's going to eventually open.
Do you guys think that's going to grow the market or might actually benefit you? Are you doing any kind of plans to bring yourself to what they said opening as far as marketing goes as such? This is Keith.
Clearly we're watching what is going on at Revel and anticipating the opening of that property.
I think we're not quite sure exactly what will open in terms of the layout of the amenities that will be offered to the customers.
We certainly hope that it grows the market.
We expect that as a new product there will be some additional customers enter the market and that we certainly like our ability to get a shot at those customers and have them visit to Borgata.
We're not so naive as to not understand that our customers will probably go and take a look there also.
We don't [indiscernible] a little bit of visitation.
But we are preparing the property and we're going through a room-to-room remodeling project.
We've opened a couple of additional amenities recently in terms of some additional bars and new retail outlets to position the property and make sure it is competitive and we are the #1 property in the market today and we look forward to remaining the #1 property even after Revel opens.
So we will be prudent but aggressive in maintaining our position.
That does -- it does  they do have to drive by you to get to their property.
Do you see it actually growing the market? I mean your opinion at the -- with the convention and everything theyre offering that it might actually see Atlantic City go up for the first time in for a while? Yes we do anticipate and certainly look forward to it growing the market.
To what extent I wouldn't put a number on it but I do expect it will grow the overall market Larry.
We have time for one more question and that is from Dennis Farrell at Wells Fargo.
I was just wondering if you had the total amount of second lien capacity the company currently has either at quarter end or pro forma of the IP? Second lien capacity? I don't think we would be limited in that regard.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Hirsberg for any closing remarks.
Thanks Amy and thanks for everyone participating a lot of good questions today including David Katz's and we appreciate them all.
If you have any other questions we're available today.
Thanks.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for attending.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Boyd Gaming Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Josh Hirsberg Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Emily.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me on the call this morning are Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Paul Chakmak our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Our comments today will include statements relating to our estimated future results including among others guidance for the first quarter financial outlook for the company our capital expenditure plans and other market business and property trends that are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of today's date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those noted in our earnings release our periodic reports and our other filings with the SEC.
During our call today we will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
For complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the Investor section of our website at boydgaming.com.
We do not provide a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures due to our inability to project special charges and certain expenses.
Finally as a reminder today's conference call is also being webcast live on boydgaming.com and will be available for replay on the Investor Relations section of that website shortly after the completion of this call.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Keith Smith our President and CEO.
Keith? Thanks Josh and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter earnings call.
I'm pleased to report that our results for the final quarter of 2011 showed a continuation of the growth trends we have seen throughout the year.
In our wholly owned businesses revenue grew for the third straight quarter while EBITDA rose for the fourth consecutive quarter even before the addition of IP.
A key indicator that our business is continuing to improve is that all 4 of our operating segments including Borgata showed both revenue and EBITDA growth on a year-over-year basis for the first time in several years.
As we said throughout 2011 our business is clearly moving in the right direction and we anticipate continued growth in 2012.
Our confidence that these positive trends will continue is primarily driven by 2 factors: Improving economic conditions across the country including here in Las Vegas; and a relentless strategic focus on building profitable revenue and maintaining a tight control on costs.
Looking back at 2011 one of the more encouraging developments was the continued recovery of the southern Nevada economy and more importantly the beginnings of a recovery of our Las Vegas Locals business.
As we all know over the last 18 months Las Vegas has experienced consistent improvements in many critical key economic indicators.
This included visitor volumes gaming revenues taxable sales and employment.
Gaming revenue generated by Nevada's casino industry in 2011 was $10.7 billion a 2.8% increase over 2010.
It was the second straight year of growth and the highest annual increase in 4 years.
In addition 2011 was the second best year ever for Las Vegas visitor volume; it was 300 000 short of the record of 39.2 million visitors in 2007.
We're confident that 2012 will see Las Vegas set a record and surpass the 40 million visitor mark.
And 2011 saw an all-time record for occupied room nights as well.
Looking at other metrics.
Core employment continues to grow with gains in the leisure and hospitality education healthcare business and professional services segments.
As a result the area's unemployment rate has declined by more than 2 percentage points in the last year.
Positive economic news is perhaps most evident in increased consumer spending.
We saw an 8.6% gain in taxable sales in southern Nevada in November marking the 13th increase in the last 14 months.
These trends bode well for our Las Vegas Locals business as we are starting to experience revenue increases in this business for the first time in years.
Because we've kept a tight rein on cost in this business we have significant operating leverage and are able to drive a substantial portion of the revenue gains through to the bottom line.
In the Midwest and South region the improvements we reported during the first 3 quarters of 2011 continued into the fourth quarter as we recorded our fifth straight quarter of EBITDA growth.
The addition to the IP to our portfolio during the quarter provides us the opportunity to expand this already strong and growing segment of our business.
While there's been only 5 months since we acquired the IP we are confident it will be a significant contributor to this region.
Finally we are encouraged by our results at Borgata which generated healthy revenue and EBITDA growth during the fourth quarter.
We continue to build on our leading market share and do not take that position for granted.
Borgata's team members are preparing for the challenges of an increasingly competitive landscape.
We're focused on improving Borgata's customer service already the best in the market as well as the quality of our rooms.
We are confident that even with new competition entering the market Borgata will remain the leading resort in the region.
We're not leaving anything to chance.
Before turning the call over to Paul I'd like to cover a few strategic points.
As we've said before strengthening our balance sheet and lowering the company's overall leverage level is our highest priority.
While we made progress toward that goal in 2011 reducing our overall leverage by almost a full turn we know we must continue this effort during 2012.
While we continue these efforts we will also look for opportunities to expand our business that are consistent with this priority.
Our Dania Jai Alai property is an example of just such an opportunity.
While it is clear the gaming legislation in Florida is dead for this session it was clear during the debate that any legislation that looks to expand gaming in Florida will also look to provide parity for the existing pari-mutuels.
Those provisions could lead to parity in tax rates and potentially the addition of table games in places like our Dania Jai Alai property.
Developing Dania may ultimately provide us with a very attractive option for growth.
Alternatively we're seeing growing interest from potential purchases of Dania and we believe the value of this asset has increased as a result of recent legislative efforts.
Whether we develop this property or whether we sell it we believe Dania represents great value to us.
We will also continue to look at other growth opportunities such as Internet gaming.
As you know after our last earnings call we announced an agreement with bwin.party digital entertainment the largest publicly traded online gaming company.
This agreement positioned the company to be a key player in this exciting new market.
While it appears today Federal Legislation for Internet gaming is a little further off than we had hoped we are well positioned to take advantage of this opportunity.
We believe the best approach is for Congress to enact legislation that creates a national well-regulated environment for Internet gaming.
And while we believe federal legislation is preferable we will consider entering the market on a state-by-state basis if that's how the issue plays out.
We've already applied for an interactive gaming license in Nevada.
Potential acquisitions also remain a focus for the company.
However we will only look at acquisitions that help advance the company's strategic goals.
That is they must be a good fit geographically deliver attractive returns and strengthen our balance sheet.
And while we consider opportunities to expand our business we will not lose our focus on improving our existing operations.
We made great strides in 2011 creating efficiencies and improving our margins.
We will stay focused on this in 2012.
But we will be equally focused on driving revenue profitable revenue that will allow us to drive as much top line growth as possible to the bottom line.
And while we anticipate growing revenue throughout 2012 EBITDA growth will remain the key benchmark for measuring our progress.
Lastly our team members will continue to deliver outstanding service and great guest experiences.
Its our great service day in and day out that keeps our customers coming back.
Thank you for your time this morning.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Paul to talk in more specifics about the results of each of our regions.
Paul? Thanks Keith.
Hello everybody.
Our strategy of maintaining efficiencies and pursuing profitable revenue growth is succeeding.
We continue to improve margins and generated EBITDA growth in all 4 operating regions for the first time in several years and we expect positive trends to continue in 2012.
First let's look at our Las Vegas Locals business.
EBITDA growth continued at a healthy pace rising 8% in the fourth quarter.
And for the first time in several years all 4 of our major Las Vegas local properties achieved EBITDA growth during the quarter led by double-digit gains at the Gold Coast and Sam's Town.
We were encouraged to see revenue growth as well but we are particularly pleased with the third straight quarter of improved profitability and continued margin improvements.
This is a distinctly different approach from some of our competitors who have pursued revenue gains above all other objectives spending heavily in campaigns that can drive top line growth but not profitability.
A few weeks ago our largest Locals competitor reported that their 4-property guarantor group which is comparable in size and location to our 4 major Las Vegas local properties reported revenue growth of over 7% in 2011.
However their EBITDA was virtually flat year-over-year.
By comparison our Las Vegas local revenues were essentially flat in 2011 but we achieved EBITDA growth of $8.4 million or more than 6%.
After a year of margin improvements our EBITDA margins in the Locals business now stands at 24.1% identical to the margin of our largest competitor in the market.
Our focus on efficiencies in driving profitable revenues allowed us to achieve healthy increases in profitability which is our company's most important metric of success.
As top line growth accelerates EBITDA will continue to grow as well as much of our revenue gains flow through to the bottom line.
Looking ahead we are optimistic about our long-term outlook in the Locals market.
Visitation to Las Vegas has continued to rise and we have been capturing our fair share of this growth especially at The Orleans and Gold Coast which operate about half of our 5 000 hotel rooms in the Las Vegas market.
We are also well positioned to maintain and build on our market share among Las Vegas residents but we are focused on providing customers a great experience each time they visit.
In the long run our business is about relationships.
Promotions can persuade customers to try somewhere new but in the long term they gravitate to where they feel most comfortable most welcome and get the best entertainment experience.
That's where Boyd Gaming has an advantage.
Our team members excel at building meaningful relationships with our guest providing highly personal expenses and delivering some of the best service in the industry.
We are confident this segment will provide an excellent base for sustainable growth and we expect we will achieve broad-based gains in both revenue and EBITDA in 2012.
Moving to Downtown Las Vegas factoring out our Hawaiian travel agency Vacations-Hawaii EBITDA was up more than 7% in the fourth quarter led by a near-record performance at the Fremont.
This marks our fourth straight quarter of EBITDA growth at the operating level in this region.
The region's flat year-over-year EBITDA performance for the quarter was entirely due to a $1 million fuel cost associated with Vacations-Hawaii.
Once again we saw encouraging strength in our Hawaiian customer segment as both visitation and play from the Hawaiians increased significantly from last year.
There are a number of reasons to be optimistic about the future of Downtown.
A number of new non-gaming businesses have been moving into the area.
Development along the Fremont Street east district continues.
In the Smith Center a 2 000-seat world-class performing arts center will open its doors downtown next month.
These developments will bring new jobs new visitors and new residents to Downtown Las Vegas.
And we're already benefiting from the energy and excitement coming into the area as visitor traffic has grown substantially on the Fremont Street expense helping to drive our strong results.
The outlook for Downtown is bright and with 1/3 of the total market Boyd Gaming will benefit from the area's renaissance.
In the Midwest and South we reported a fifth straight quarter of EBITDA growth even before the addition of the IP.
We were encouraged to see strong operating performances at Blue Chip and Delta Downs both of which produced double-digit gains in EBITDA on higher revenues.
Delta Downs recorded the second strongest fourth quarter in its history trailing only the fourth quarter of 2008 when the property saw a boost from stimulus related to a hurricane recovery effort at the time.
At the IP we have made encouraging progress integrating the property into our operations since October.
We have refined the property's marketing programs and combined the IP into our corporate structure realizing significant labor savings without compromising guest service.
And by bringing the property under corporate umbrella we expect to generate additional savings in the months ahead in a number of other areas including overall insurance costs purchasing synergies and utilities.
Looking ahead an important milestone will be the introduction of B Connected at the IP.
As we've noted before the IP offers an exceptional customer experience.
There is great interest among our existing customers in sampling what the resort has to offer.
We are on target to roll out B Connected at the IP during the second quarter which will allow us to capitalize on the busy summer season and accelerate growth in the year ahead.
In Atlantic City Borgata produced an 11% EBITDA growth on a 4.5% revenue gain improving margins by 110 basis points.
Gaming win was up significantly during the fourth quarter driving most of this growth.
These games help Borgata extend its market-leading position.
During the quarter the property set records for market share in table drop table win slot handle and gross gaming revenue.
Slot win rose more than 6% table game revenue was up 7% and poker win increased more than 16%.
Increases in non-gaming revenue also played a role in the property's quarterly performance.
Our hotel operations posted cash ADR of $168 during the quarter a 15% increase over the prior year.
As evidenced by Borgata's margin improvements during the quarter the property's executive team is doing a great job of running an efficient operation in a very competitive environment effectively controlling costs without compromising the Borgata customer experience.
Looking ahead we are preparing for the opening of a new competitor in the market.
We are working hard to ensure that Borgata's team members continue to deliver the best possible service to our customers.
And the hotel room redesign already underway will be completed by midyear helping to keep our product at the top of the market.
Based on the feedback we received so far the refresh rooms have been well received by our guests.
We're confident Borgata will remain the leader in the market.
Over the last 8 years Borgata has set itself apart as Atlantic City's premier resort destination.
We believe that will not change and we expect to set the pace in Atlantic City for years to come.
Finally I want to provide a brief update on B Connected our nationwide player loyalty program.
As noted on earlier calls the introduction of B Connected at the IP in the second quarter will be a significant enhancement at the property.
We believe B Connected will help drive growth at the property while also making the program even more valuable to our customers.
We're also taking steps to take the B Connected experience to the next level by enhancing its home on the web B Connected Online.
Today B Connected Online is the most visited website of its kind in the gaming industry.
And over the last several months it has received numerous national awards.
The American Gaming Association has recognized it as our industry's best website and B Connected Online has also received awards from the Hospitality Sales Marketing Association and the Association For Marketing and Communication Professionals for ease of use creative design and high level of personalization.
We realize that being the best requires constant improvement and innovation and have embarked on a significant upgrade of B Connected Online.
When it launches in the second quarter we are confident that B Connected Online 2.0 will further enhance the exceptional personal experience our customers have come to expect from Boyd Gaming.
To recap the positive momentum in our operations continued in the fourth quarter.
We saw year-over-year improvements across the country led by growing strength in our Las Vegas Locals business.
Pod-based revenue growth has begun and we expect this to lead to continued gains in EBITDA in 2012 as the majority of incremental revenue gains flow through to the bottom line.
Thanks for your time today and now I'll turn it over to Josh.
Thanks Paul.
I will start with a few items from the quarter and then provide guidance.
Beginning with the balance sheet excluding Borgata Boyd's debt balance at the end of the fourth quarter was approximately $2.6 billion of which $1.6 billion was outstanding under our credit facility.
The increase in our debt balance since the third quarter is due to the IP acquisition.
While debt has increased the company's true leverage is improved by almost a full turn of EBITDA since the beginning of 2011.
We will continue to be focused on strengthening our balance sheet through deleveraging as we benefit from ever-increasing EBITDA and an improving revenue picture.
From a covenant perspective as calculated under the terms of our credit agreement at the end of the quarter secured leverage was 4.2x compared to a covenant of 4.5x and total leverage was 6.7x versus a covenant of 7.75x.
At year end availability under our credit facility was approximately $135 million and our cash balance was $132 million.
Our next maturity of $216 million is April of 2014 and so we have over 2 years until that maturity.
However we would expect to refinance that debt sometime before April of next year.
Borgata's debt balance was $832 million of which $40 million was outstanding under their $75 million credit facility.
Their cash balance was $46 million.
On the income statement corporate expense excluding share-based compensation expense was $10.4 million in the quarter.
For 2012 we expect corporate expense to be approximately $44 million.
Consolidated depreciation expense in the quarter that is including both Boyd and Borgata was $50 million a decrease of approximately $1 million from the prior year.
Boyd's depreciation expense was essentially even with last year at approximately $35 million which includes $4.8 million related to the IP.
Borgata's depreciation expense of $14.7 million was approximately $2 million below fourth quarter last year.
For 2012 we expect consolidated depreciation expense to be approximately $200 million to $205 million about $135 million to $140 million of which is attributable to Boyd and the remaining to Borgata.
Share-based compensation expense in the quarter was $2.3 million.
We expect share-based comp to be approximately $10 million in 2012.
Preopening expense before the consolidation of Las Vegas Energy was $4 million in the fourth quarter and that is a good quarterly run rate estimate for 2012.
Remember preopening expense includes the $1 million per month payment to Las Vegas Energy.
The line item other operating charges net is primarily related to acquisition costs.
Excluding the impact of consolidating Las Vegas Energy interest expense for the fourth quarter was approximately $60 million the increase of $5.3 million compared to fourth quarter 2010.
The increase over prior year's quarter is entirely attributable to higher debt balances at Boyd associated with the IP acquisition and Boyd's refinancing that was completed in the fourth quarter.
In November we issued $350 million of term loans at LIBOR plus 4.75% subject to a minimum LIBOR rate of 1.25% and retired our non-extended credit facility that was scheduled to mature in May of this year.
Boyd's interest expense in the quarter was $38.6 million compared to $33.2 million last year in the fourth quarter while Borgata's fourth quarter interest expense was essentially even with the prior year at $21.7 million.
Using the current forward curve for LIBOR we expect interest expense to be approximately $160 million for Boyd in 2012 and approximately $85 million for Borgata.
Other income of approximately $11 million in the quarter is related to 2 items.
The first is the accounting for the IP acquisition.
Accounting rules require a fair valuation to be completed in association with an acquisition.
The IP valuation exceeded the net purchase price and as a result as accounting rules require we recorded a gain of approximately $4.6 million.
The second item is related to our agreement to sell Dania.
According to the terms of the agreement with that seller Boyd received a deposit that was nonrefundable in the event the transaction did not close within a certain timeframe.
The buyer was unable to close the transaction and as a result we recognized a $6 million deposit as income in November when the agreement when the terminated because of the buyer's inability to close as contractually required.
Tax provision in the quarter resulted in the company reporting tax expense on a pretax loss.
This anomaly is caused primarily because we still provide for state taxes despite the company's consolidated pretax base.
For guidance purposes we are assuming a 35% tax rate for 2012 until we have better information to provide you.
In the fourth quarter capital expenditures were approximately $20 million at Boyd and $14 million at Borgata.
2012 at Boyd we expect to spend approximately $100 million and at Borgata approximately $60 million which includes $35 million related to the room project that was started last year and is expected to be completed in the middle of this year.
Now let's turn our attention to guidance for the first quarter.
As has been our recent practice we will provide quarterly EBITDA and EPS guidance.
Because we consolidate Borgata's financial results we will provide separate EBITDA guidance for Borgata.
We'll provide guidance for adjusted EPS for the consolidated business including both the wholly-owned segments of Boyd and Borgata.
We expect wholly-owned EBITDA including IP and after the deduction for corporate expense to be in the range of $88 million to $93 million.
We expect Borgata to generate EBITDA of $32 million to $34 million.
At this range of EBITDA guidance including a full quarter of IP adjusted EPS for the first quarter is expected to range from $0.05 to $0.09 per share.
Operator that concludes our prepared remarks.
We're now ready for any questions from participants on the call.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Felicia Hendrix of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> So a question just on the Las Vegas Locals market.
Just wondering the revenue growth that you're seeing there is that still mostly non-gaming or are you starting to see some improvement in the gaming arena? Well I guess it's coming in both sides.
Obviously revenue growth for the quarter in the LVL was relatively small.
And as I said in my prepared comments you can certainly drive revenue in this market if you're willing to pay for it.
We are obviously not playing in that game at the same level as others.
And so to some extent there is some false revenue being recorded as a result of a lot of promotional activity overall within the town.
But we feel good about directionally where it's going how we continue to reinvest in our customers vis--vis our marketing programs and we think it can be certainly broad-based in 2012 as the recovery takes hold.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I'm wondering if you're seeing -- I know things can be stimulated through promotions -- and I do have a question about your promotional expenses in a second.
But I'm just wondering are you seeing any kind of increase in frequency or spend per visitor or anything like that that maybe you could parse through? Frequency has stayed pretty consistent overall.
Depending on really the property and whether that's a property in Las Vegas or a property outside of Las Vegas we are seeing some encouraging signs in spend per visitor.
But not necessarily everywhere all the time or at the same direction; it's kind of unique to each economic situation we're in.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then let's just say hypothetically obviously we're all hoping that the revenue growth continues to improve but let's just say it kind of stays at these kind of like sub-1% level moving forward to 2012 can you still sustain this kind of EBITDA improvement that you've been generating? Yes we feel good about the model that we've put together.
And again depending on the tax rate in each one of the jurisdictions we're in we can see $0.60 on the dollar plus or minus flow-through off of any sort of revenue increases.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I was more specific to Las Vegas Locals but that applies to that as well? Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
Final question on your promotional expenses for the wholly-owned properties it looks like they increased 100 basis points year-over-year.
I was hoping you could address that.
Well I mean it's obviously I guess a couple of things.
I mean we haven't exactly sat back in Las Vegas but we have been very strategic about our approach.
I think that shows through with those numbers.
I think you also got the addition of the IP and I think from your experience in looking at the Biloxi market you know that that market is very competitive as well.
And so that would flow through into those numbers since we owned it for all but 4 days of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay thats what I was wondering.
So would you think would most improvement be coming -- most of the increase be coming from the IP or is it kind of just a combination of both of those issues? Well it's a combination of a number of things but I think the IP is a pretty big factor in moving those numbers.
Our next question comes from Shaun Kelley of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I was actually interested to ask a little bit about Internet gaming since you brought it up in some of the prepared remarks.
Keith I think you mentioned that there was a little bit of a setback as it related to some of the federal legislation.
I assume you're referring to the lack of attachment to the latest tax bill.
Could you just give us your sense of kind of where that stands today and the prospects for federal legislation this year? Is there any other legislation that maybe something could be attached to that we could see a shot at? Or is it kind of what are you thinking about for 2012 there? Sure.
Well look when you're talking about federal legislation in Congress it's really tough to kind of handicap what's going to happen and when it's going to happen.
We were hopeful that it would be part of the recent tax cut extensions that were approved by Congress last week.
It wasn't.
We're still hopeful that there is some legislation that it can get attached to later this year or at the end of the session.
So we're continuing to push.
We're continuing to advocate for its passage.
We believe federal legislation is the right answer to Internet gaming.
But it's really tough to predict kind of the how and when.
We're hopeful; we're working on it.
And well look forward to its ultimate passage one of these days.
Research Division</strong> And I guess in the meantime when do you kind of make the decision on the state level side to proceed there? We know there are a bunch of applications including I think yours that's sitting out there at the Nevada level.
But the preference is for federal.
So could you just help us walk through kind of how the Nevada process proceeds kind of from here assuming that federal doesn't happen this year or what we should think about for timing on the state level side? Well sure I think it's different obviously for each state.
As you look at Nevada many of us have submitted applications including our company.
We are waiting for those applications to be processed by the state.
I mean it's unknown as to what -- how long that will take or what that timeframe will be in terms of processing those applications.
And what the ultimate kind of rules will be here in Nevada.
So the timing is uncertain.
As we look at other states we will monitor those.
And I think just about every state theyre going to have to pass some specific legislation to authorize Internet gaming specifically.
We'll be monitoring that and seeing where it makes sense for us to weigh in.
At the end of the day while we want to be involved in Internet gaming it has to be a profitable business venture for us.
We're not getting involved in it just because it kind of a hot topic.
We've got to be able to make money and that speaks to liquidity issues and the number of players that are available at any one point in time.
So it really speaks to states with larger population centers.
So we'll continue to monitor it.
I think it's a longer process not a shorter process as you look at a state-by-state approach.
And each one of those states will have different regulations which will complicate things even more.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And last question I was wondering if somebody could comment a little bit.
I believe in the third quarter you guys disclosed in I think in your 10-Q a tribal contract.
Is that a $25 million investment? Could you guys just give a little bit more clarity on what that investment was and/or who with? Thatd be helpful.
We really haven't disclosed anything further.
We're continuing to work forward on that contract in California and when we're ready to kind of announce something we will.
But at this point we're just  its in the very early stages.
We're just kind of continuing to work through it and there's really not much more to report.
Our next question comes from Dennis Forst of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of simple ones.
Josh you were speeding through some of the numbers and you gave out a number for depreciation in the fourth quarter for the IP.
Was it $4.8 million? That's right Dennis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I was wondering if you could give us an idea of what the Vacations-Hawaii revenues component was in the Downtown for the fourth quarter.
Not only do I not have it we don't typically break that out.
So I don't think I can give you that.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then lastly a general question maybe for Keith or Paul about acquisitions.
Is the company still in an acquisitive mode? You made a good acquisition with the IP.
Is there anything on the say the front burners that could reach fruition in the next 6 to 9 months? No obviously nothing that we're prepared to talk about.
I mean we continue to look for acquisitions that as I said kind of are a good fit that will help us to continue to strengthen our balance sheet and delever.
Those types of opportunities frankly are pretty rare.
We think the IP fit that bill fit it very well and were very encouraged by the early indications of what we're seeing at the IP and are very confident it's going to be a great contributor to us.
Once again we continue to look for those but they're pretty rare.
So we don't have anything to announce today or anything that we're anticipating in the next couple months.
The next question comes from Carlo Santarelli of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Obviously we all see the Las Vegas numbers come out and they've obviously been strong through the fourth quarter and you guys have mentioned that maybe some of that slightly artificial.
Would you guys mind sharing with us what you think the real revenue growth is in the market if we kind of extrapolate promotions and how you are factoring that into your outlook for 2012? Well I mean I think the  I mean the revenue growth that we've seen we think is certainly real revenue growth.
Very difficult question obviously.
There's no real scientific way without getting inside really all the companies that are active in the business overall to really answer that question.
But we think it's modest at this point.
But in fairness it's 2 quarters now of revenue growth after seeing frankly years of revenue decline.
So we've turned the corner.
We think it's low single digits for 2012 but it's certainly higher than what you've seen in the last couple of quarters.
Our next question comes from Kevin Coyne of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just one question on IP.
I know you had mentioned in the past a target of $5 million of synergies.
Can you give us a sense of how you've accrued those synergies to-date and now that you're in and operating the property is there any upsize to that number? First I would say we definitely feel very comfortable with the $5 million and we think there's pretty good upside to that number.
We naturally during the first 3 months the fourth quarter of 2011 the numbers we've reported today sat back and spent a lot of time analyzing where we think we could make a significant difference.
We implemented the labor-saving changes in January.
And so that is now all behind us and we feel very comfortable with our approach and certainly the good work of the team there to identify where we could be impactful from a bottom-line perspective.
But also make sure that we were taking care of the business and the customers that obviously frequent that property.
The other items that I mentioned is it relates to things like property insurance utilities savings on the procurement side by just being part of a much larger organization and buying it frankly to better rates because of volumes are all starting to fold in no; will be completed with the insurance renewal in the second quarter.
And I think you will see a full year of 2012 that reflects some healthy synergies certainly well in excess of the $5 million that we have targeted.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just turning to Atlantic City.
You obviously have your new competitor opening and it seems a little earlier than expected.
I was wondering if you could just mention if you've had any loss of any key personnel that you would like to point out or have you kind of locked up some of those key people? And secondly as you prepare for the new competitor kind of are you doing anything in advance of that to make sure that you can kind of weather it without much disruption? Sure.
This is Keith.
Couple of comments along those lines.
We've been fortunate at the Borgata to have a very stable senior management team.
And that senior management team remains intact.
And we're very thankful for that.
So the key leadership of that property is still intact and we expect will remain intact.
We've certainly lost some employees to the new competitor to Revel as they recruit.
So that's to be expected and I think there will be some of that that goes on but all the key management is still in place.
Once again we've known that this competitor is coming for some time and so we've been taking kind of appropriate steps whether it's room remodel project that's ongoing or shoring up our marketing plans and how we speak to our customers and just ensuring their continued loyalty when they go forward.
We understand it just happens in our business that some of our competitors will go visit.
We expect most will return; some will end up staying that's just part of the business we're in.
But we think we've taken appropriate steps to kind of ensure their loyalty.
We still have the premier asset in the market.
We don't take it for granted.
We continue each and every day to try and improve customer service.
And we're confident about the future of Borgata.
We're confident about our ability to maintain our leadership position there.
Our next question comes from David Hargreaves from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering are you aware of any new competition on construction in the Back Bay in the Biloxi area right now? I mean if you're referring to one project the Margaritaville project thats scheduled to open in the next few months I mean that certainly is well underway.
Relatively small project.
No hotel rooms.
Really I guess the best way to describe it is a Locals-oriented property with relatively tough location from an access perspective.
Really don't see that impacting our business at all.
There have been a number of other projects in the Back Bay that have been talked about and frankly have been talked about for years.
They all have their own particular peculiarities from whether it's an ownership perspective or other related complexities including obviously in today's world the complexity of can they find any dollars.
To my knowledge none of those properties at this point in time have the availability of capital to start construction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But where would that property be located relative to the IP and how far is it? I mean the geographic location of just the Biloxi market overall is relatively tight circumference.
And it's easiest -- probably if you circle back with Josh where he can kind of point them out to you on a map.
But again I don't view that any of these projects have any material impact on our business there or frankly anybody's business there because I'm not sure they're viable.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Your next question comes from John Maxwell at Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Keith I was wondering could you provide a timeframe or do you have a timeframe on what you think you'll end up doing with Dania in Florida whether you're going to pursue a sale or develop it on your own or possibly with a partner I guess it would sound like? We really haven't set out a hard timeframe for that.
Once again weve had a great expression of interest a number of people approaching us interested in buying that asset.
And we'll continue to work our way through that to see if there's something there.
We'll also continue to watch the legislation and try and understand the landscape there see what's going to happen in Florida to just make sure we make the best decision for the company.
It's hard to put a timeframe on it.
We don't have one right now but we're kind of working through the process every week.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Paul just a little bit more on what you're seeing with the recovery in both the Locals and Downtown.
Would you characterize it is it more your existing customers maybe staying longer or making a couple more visits or are you seeing a more wider spread of maybe customers that you haven't seen in the past 18 24 months starting to visit the properties again? No I mean it's generally relatively stable obviously as you can see from the revenue numbers in the Locals market overall.
It's kind of small improvements in all areas.
But when you have relatively flat year-over-year revenue growth obviously nothing is necessarily standing out as an overachiever.
On the flip side Downtown the Fremont is -- as I mentioned continues to perform incredibly well.
That business at the Fremont is being driven by a visitation to Fremont Street Experience and I think the team there is just doing a phenomenal job of getting more and more of those folks to come in to our door versus obviously somewhere else.
I think frankly those folks also have more disposable income and are interested in spending a little bit more time and money downtown.
That then is also buoyed by the continued strength of our Hawaiian business.
I think everyone has heard the Hawaiian economy continues to plug along at a pretty good pace from a positive perspective and obviously we get probably more than our fair share of that Hawaiian business given our focus on that market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just Josh one final one could you comment if there was any debt repurchased either at the Boyd or Borgata level during the quarter? No John there were not any bond repurchase.
Our next question is a follow-up from Dennis Forst from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I had a question for Paul.
Paul made a comment on IP to labor savings that's what it was labor savings in January.
Can you annualize that for us Paul at the IP? I think at this point we have talked about synergies and savings in the context of a total number.
The number we put out last quarter was $5 million.
Today I said that I think we can significantly surpass that type of number.
Look not surprisingly marketing and labor costs are the 2 big expense drivers within our business.
So you can assume it's a pretty good piece of that overall number but I'm not going to get down to identifying it specifically more than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you obviously don't break out the total revenues of that individual property.
But can I assume that the net revenues from the IP are pretty much what the gaming revenues are meaning that hotel food and beverage are somewhat offset by the promotional allowances of the property? I think it's similar to that.
I mean the IP is a resort and so it has probably a little bit different look to it than some of our other Midwest and South businesses.
I mean certainly our largest hotel in the region our largest number of restaurant offerings.
And so non-gaming is a little bit more significant at the IP than it would be at some of the other properties that you're used to just by how it lays out who its customer is et cetera et cetera.
On the revenue side to kind of have you look out for it.
We will be providing some detail in the 10-K and future 10-Qs on the IP as required by -- in a certain accounting guidance.
And so you will be able to see the IP as a standalone in our footnotes and then we can talk about that more as we -- as those numbers come out.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Hirsberg for any closing remarks.
Thanks Emily.
Thanks to everyone participating.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to contact my office.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Boyd Gaming First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
And I'll now turn the conference over to Mr.
Josh Hirsberg.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much operator.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call this morning are Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Paul Chakmak our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Our comments today will include statements relating to our estimated future results including among others guidance for the second quarter the financial outlook for the company our expansion and development projects and other market business and property trends that are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of today's date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those noted in our earnings release our periodic reports and our other filings with the SEC.
During our call today we will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
For a complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the Investors section of our website at boydgaming.com.
We do not provide a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures due to our inability to project special charges and certain expenses.
Finally today's conference call is also being webcast live and will be available for replay on the Investor Relations section of our website boydgaming.com shortly following the completion of this call.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Keith Smith our President and CEO.
Keith? Thanks Josh.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for our first quarter earnings call.
I'm pleased to report that the positive trends we have been experiencing in previous quarters continued in the first quarter.
Our business clearly continues to move in the right direction and we expect this momentum to continue for the remainder of the year.
Our strong performance and continued confidence is rooted in 3 factors: first the economic fundamentals supporting our business are strengthening and we anticipate this trend will continue; second our strategy of having a geographically diverse collection of properties is allowing us to capitalize on the strengthening conditions in our Midwest and South region; and third our focus on driving profitable revenue along with growing EBITDA will help us deleverage the business.
When you look at the first quarter from an operating perspective it was extremely encouraging as we reported widespread strength in the Midwest and South region and strong results to Borgata.
All of this helped us to beat expectations.
On a wholly-owned basis including the IP we reported our fourth straight quarter of revenue growth and fifth quarter of EBITDA growth.
But even without the IP our wholly-owned revenues grew for the fourth consecutive quarter and our wholly-owned EBITDA increased for the fifth straight quarter.
Focusing on the IP first quarter results were very encouraging and provide us just a glimpse of the full potential of this acquisition.
We generated EBITDA growth of more than 10% of the property during our first full quarter of ownership primarily due to more effective marketing initiatives and stronger management.
It is notable that we achieved this growth without the benefits of our B Connected player program which is just being rolled out.
This performance is not an accident.
It is the result of the expertise and experience of our management team as they unlock the full value of this asset.
And we are confident the IP will continue to perform at a high level in the coming quarters ultimately making the multiple for this acquisition well below 7x.
I would like to take a moment to commend our entire team for the progress they have made so far at the IP.
In addition our management and team members throughout the Midwest and South region have done a terrific job in marketing effectively even as they have diligently controlled expenses.
The results speak for themselves.
Apart from the IP our Midwest and South region had an outstanding quarter with broad-based growth across the region as we outperformed our competition and we were able to grow revenues EBITDA and margins.
While this strong performance was led by Delta Downs Treasure Chest and the IP the majority of our properties in the region posted double-digit EBITDA gains.
Paul will provide more color during his comments.
In Atlantic City Borgata posted solid growth further reinforcing its position as the areas' premier resort.
While some of these gains came from improved table holds we were encouraged by growth across our non-gaming business segments as well which added to our EBITDA gains.
As you know a new competitor has opened in Atlantic City.
And while it is early I can tell you that we have yet to see a meaningful impact on Borgata.
So far in April we have seen year-over-year increases in guest counts visitation and rate of slot win.
Occupancy is higher as well running ahead of our expectations.
And our cash room sales are up about 8% during the month.
While April's performance is encouraging we expect it will be several quarters before it is clear what impact this new competitor will have in the Borgata.
Before turning the call over to Paul I'd like to review a few strategic points.
First deleveraging and strengthening our balance sheet is and will continue to be our major focus.
We made significant progress towards that goal last year and in the first quarter of this year and we believe that continued growth whether through our core business through acquisitions or through new development will allow us to further delever the business as we grow EBITDA and use free cash flow to pay down debt.
Second acquisitions remain a strong part of our growth strategy and they contribute to our efforts to strengthen our balance sheet.
As we discussed earlier the return from the IP during our first full quarter of ownership show our ability to unlock the value with strategic acquisitions.
The IP is already a deleveraging transaction from a balance sheet perspective and was accretive to earnings in its first full quarter of operations.
We expect to realize further benefits in the quarters ahead as synergies take hold.
The IP is the 11th property we have acquired and further builds on our long track record of successfully integrating new properties into our company.
Acquisitions will remain a key part of our growth strategy going forward and the Midwest and South will be of particular interest to us given the impressive growth across this region.
And we will look for other growth opportunity as well.
We have positioned the company to take full advantage of online gaming with our joint venture with bwin.party digital entertainment.
We continue to believe Congress should enact a national structure of legalization and an effective regulation of Internet gaming.
And when it does the growth opportunities available to us will be substantial.
However we will be prepared to take advantage on a state-by-state approach if Congress does not enact federal legislation.
Finally we will maintain our focus on delivering outstanding service and great guest experiences.
This has been a hallmark of our brand and will ensure continued success of our company for years to come.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
I would now like to turn the call over to Paul to discuss our regional results in more detail.
Paul? Thanks Keith.
Hello everybody.
Overall we were encouraged with our operating results in the first quarter.
Despite continued elevated promotional activity in Nevada our operations held steady.
We're particularly pleased with growth in the Midwest and South region where we gained share in almost all of our markets.
We got off to a great start in our first full quarter of ownership at the IP posting 10% EBITDA growth even before realizing the full benefit of most of our anticipated synergies.
Borgata delivered a strong year-over-year comparison and is performing well against heightened competition.
So let's get into the details.
We'll begin with the Las Vegas Locals business.
We were encouraged to see business volumes holding steady during the first quarter as visitation increased in our properties.
We posted a slight increase in revenue and both table game drop and coin-in were comparable to last year's levels.
The slight shortfall in EBITDA was the result of ongoing promotional environment in the locals market.
And we temporarily increased our marketing expense during the quarter as we made a strategic decision to test a few programs targeted at our lower tier customers.
While this did generate new revenue we didn't see flow-through to the bottom line.
These results were further compounded by table game hold at The Orleans and Gold Coast that was below last year's levels.
Hold impacted EBITDA by more than $1 million.
However we are seeing some positive factors as trip frequency from our customer base continues to grow and is now at the highest level in 3 years.
Looking ahead we expect steady EBITDA growth in our local business.
Now let's move to Downtown where we own about 1/3 of the market.
We saw gains at the top line driven largely by strong growth in our non-gaming business.
In March for example the Fremont set an all-time monthly record for cash revenues from its food and beverage outlets.
However F&amp;B business is not as profitable as casino side so we did not see much flow-through of this growth to the bottom line.
In addition we experienced a $750 000 increase in jet fuel expense at our Vacations-Hawaii charter service.
Compounding matters we saw year-over-year decline in table game hold percentage of our Downtown properties impacting EBITDA by about $1 million during the quarter.
Factoring out fuel expense and fluctuations in hold we project our Downtown business would have reported a slight increase in EBITDA during the quarter.
On a positive note rated play increased year-over-year driven by continuing strength in our Hawaiian customer segment.
And we saw double-digit increase in rated guest counts during the quarter which are now at their highest level since the recession began.
Looking ahead there is a lot of excitement about the progress that has been made in Downtown Las Vegas in recent months.
The overall gaming market is expanding and its long-term outlook is encouraging.
The Smith Center for Performing Arts and The Mob Museum opened during the first quarter giving people new reasons to come to the area.
These are exciting times in Downtown Las Vegas and we expect to see steady growth in visitor traffic as the renaissance of downtown continues.
In the Midwest and South region same-store EBITDA rose more than 10% and revenues increased nearly 6%.
We saw broad-based EBITDA growth across the region and gained share in most of our markets as both visitation and spend per visit increased.
Our team members did a tremendous job of delivering great customer experiences operating efficiently and marketing effectively.
As a result operating margins in the Midwest and South region rose 150 basis points to nearly 24% the highest level since 2007.
Delta Downs Treasure Chest and the IP reported the region's strongest year-over-year comparisons.
At our 2 Southern Louisiana properties casino volume indicators reached their highest levels in 3 years.
And in March Delta reported its highest monthly coin-in ever.
Over at the IP we grew EBITDA by more than 10% year-over-year and improved operating margins by 350 basis points to 25.9% during our first full quarter of ownership.
It's important to note that this increase was primarily the result of more effective management.
In the months ahead we will see further efficiencies from operational synergies contributing positively to EBITDA growth.
And the rollout of B Connected next week will have a positive impact as well.
At this point the IP is exceeding our expectations and we see considerable additional upside for the property.
Finally in Atlantic City Borgata grew revenue by more than 4% and EBITDA by 22.7% marking its second consecutive quarter of double-digit EBITDA growth.
Several factors were at work.
One was favorable comparisons in table game hold percentage.
The property's table hold percentage rose by 145 basis points year-over-year increasing from below historical levels last year to a rate of 13.9% in the first quarter of 2012.
But there was far more at work than favorable hold as we saw strength across our non-gaming operations.
Cash ADRs rose more than 5% cash room sold were up nearly 4% and F&amp;B revenues increased year-over-year.
We also continued to widen our leadership position in poker where revenue grew by about $1 million as we captured nearly half of the entire Atlantic City poker market.
These top line gains were magnified on the bottom line as the property increased EBITDA margins by more than 330 basis points during the first quarter a reflection of the Borgata team's commitment to driving further efficiencies in the business without compromising the property's first-class customer experience.
As Keith noted earlier we have yet to see any meaningful impact on Borgata's operations from Atlantic City's newest property.
They opened with a limited number of hotel rooms and few amenities so we expect the ultimate impact to 1 Borgata will not be clear for several quarters.
While we are encouraged by our performance so far we're taking nothing for granted and are hard at work enhancing Borgata's market-leading service reinforcing our position as the clear leader in Atlantic City.
A redesign of Borgata's hotel rooms is underway and we continue to receive very positive feedback from our customers.
Borgata has a well earned reputation as one of the leading resorts on the East Coast and we are confident it will remain the top-grossing resort in Atlantic City for years to come.
Finally I want to provide an update on B Connected our nationwide player loyalty program.
The web-based home of the program B Connected Online delivers a very personalized experience that ensures every customer gets the maximum benefit out of their membership.
And with last week's launch of B Connected Social we now offer the first comprehensive nationwide social gaming platform linked to a casino loyalty program.
B Connected now taps into the growing popularity of online social environments.
Every day millions of people log into various social websites spending time and effort to earn points badges and other kinds of recognition.
B Connected Social applies these dynamics to B Connected Online and our other websites.
With this new program our customers earn social points for routine transactions which can then be redeemed for entries into regular contests.
In addition B Connected Online now ties into major social media networks like Facebook Twitter and Foursquare recognizing our customers for sharing information through those services.
Customers earn social points for promoting us through social media and we receive the benefit of referrals and word-of-mouth marketing directly from our customers.
These social elements are far more extensive and broad based than anything else in our industry and we believe they will further extend B Connected Online's leadership position.
So to recap the first quarter was an encouraging one from an operating perspective.
Borgata continued to expand its leadership position in Atlantic City posting its second straight quarter of strong growth.
Our Midwest and South region is hitting on all cylinders and our team is doing an exceptional job at the IP positioning the property for further growth in the quarters ahead.
Thanks for your time today and now over to Josh.
Thanks Paul.
I'll start with a few items from the quarter and then provide guidance for the second quarter.
Beginning with the balance sheet excluding Borgata our debt balance at the end of the first quarter was approximately $2.55 billion a reduction of about $50 million from the end of last year.
At the end of the first quarter there was about $1.6 billion outstanding under our credit facility.
At quarter end availability under our credit facility was approximately $175 million and our cash balance was $122 million.
Our next maturity of $216 million is April 2014 approximately 2 years from today.
We would expect to refinance that debt sometime prior to April of next year.
From a financial covenant perspective as calculated under the terms of our credit agreement at the end of the quarter secured leverage was 4x compared to our covenant of 4.5x.
And total leverage was 6.5x versus a covenant of 7.75.
Both of these metrics have improved by approximately 25 basis points since December.
Borgata's debt balance was $814 million of which $22 million was outstanding under their $75 million credit facility.
Their cash balance at the end of the quarter was $34 million.
On the income statement corporate expense excluding share-based compensation was $10.1 million essentially even with last year.
Consolidated depreciation expense in the quarter that is including Borgata was $50 million even with the prior year.
Our depreciation expense including about $4.8 million associated with IP was approximately $35 million compared to $31.7 million last year.
Borgata's depreciation expense of approximately $15 million was $3.7 million below first quarter last year.
Excluding the impact of consolidating Las Vegas energy interest expense for the quarter was approximately $60 million roughly $3 million higher than last year due to valuation adjustments related to purchase accounting at Borgata.
Our interest expense was $40 million essentially even with last year as higher interest expense this year was offset by swaps that matured in the middle of last year.
Borgata's interest expense in the quarter was approximately $20 million.
The tax provision for adjusted earnings per share was 35%.
The GAAP tax provision in the quarter resulted in an effective tax rate of 49% reflecting the impact of federal and state statutory rates on our income and provisions related to 1048[ph].
Capital expenditures in the quarter were approximately $15 million.
And at Borgata capital expenditures were $17 million.
Now in terms of guidance for the second quarter.
As has been our practice we will provide quarterly EBITDA and EPS guidance.
Because we consolidate Borgata we will provide separate EBITDA guidance for Borgata.
We'll provide guidance for adjusted EPS for the consolidated business including both our wholly-owned segments and Borgata.
With that we expect wholly-owned EBITDA again after the deduction for corporate expense to be in the range of $90 million to $95 million.
We expect Borgata to generate EBITDA of $33 million to $35 million.
With this range of EBITDA guidance adjusted EPS for the second quarter is expected to be in the range of $0.06 to $0.10 per share.
Operator that concludes our formal remarks.
And we are now ready for any questions from participants on the call.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Felicia Hendrix of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just on the Las Vegas Locals market just wondering is it growing right now? The market number is from the state that we saw obviously through February but they did show some slot and table volume growth.
So just wondering if you're actually seeing growth because your actual year-over-year revenue growth was a bit lower than we had expected? Yes and I saw your comment in your note this morning Felicia.
When we look at the state-reported numbers which are out for February is the most current set where in particular I think everyone focused on the Boulder Strip region where Sam's Town operates as well as certainly many of our other competitors who saw a very very significant revenue growth gaming revenue growth in that particular market.
I think you got to peel it back one more layer and look at the changes in hold percentage for the market overall which were also very significant from a positive perspective when they -- the entire region was looked at in that particular case.
So adjusted for the change in year-over-year hold percentage growth in the Boulder Strip region for February was a much much lower number than 22%.
I think it was if our memory is correct 2% or 3% because of factors again just related to hold.
When you compound that with my earlier comments about marketing that's going on which obviously certainly drives revenue not necessarily profitability of marketing expenses higher we kind of end up in the situation we're in today and you saw in our first quarter numbers overall which showed very modest changes if not flat revenue from that particular region.
If you go back for our last 3 quarters I think you see that same very modest revenue growth in the Las Vegas Locals business less than 1% but positive in all 3 quarters which is certainly a very positive note from the negative -- the large negative numbers we saw in the previous few years.
So we think that the market is continuing to strengthen certainly not at the pace of the Midwest and South region by any stretch but I think the healing process is just going to be longer and more extended in Las Vegas.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's actually really helpful.
So as we think through the rest of the year are we -- should we be looking at similar growth rates to what we have seen in the last few quarters? Because I think folks have -- some folks have been assuming maybe not more than 1% but to see some improvement? Yes I mean I think we continue to be optimistic.
We obviously do a lot of market research here given not only the fact that we live here but we have a very significant portion of our business that is of great interest to our shareholders in the city.
And there are plenty of economic indicators in Las Vegas more macroeconomic indicators that are showing much more positive signs.
And we think in all honesty there has been a lot of pent-up demand for big-ticket item purchases and other things that drive things like sales tax receipts to much more healthy levels.
And that has to kind of flow through and people got to kind of adjust their own family budgets around those changes and I think they'll get right back into it.
I mean as we said people are coming to our properties more than they ever have in years.
And we just need to see that upswing as they kind of take care of other personal matters that they're dealing with.
Research Division</strong> And then just quickly final question.
On the marketing testing that you did this quarter and you mentioned the tough promotional environment I'm a bit confused because the promotional environment has not been -- it hasn't been neutral.
It's -- actually there's -- the promotional environment has been active for a while now and you guys have been rather consistent at standing firm and not increasing your marketing efforts particularly given your success with B Connected.
So I'm just wondering what changed this quarter? And given how you -- given the results of your -- of the marketing that you did are you planning on continuing those programs? Well it's Paul again.
I mean we -- as I said we did do what we referred to as a test.
Now in fairness a test is more than like 100 or 1 000 people.
We need a fairly large group to really see what the response rate is.
We did the test at the lower end which we would refer to as our Ruby level -- it's our entry level into the B Connected club -- because we were seeing that increase in visitation and we wanted to see if we could stimulate demand at that level by spending some more marketing dollars on that particular group.
We saw that they certainly came.
They used their incremental offers.
But we really didn't see any additional gaming value out of those customers.
So it's easy enough for us to turn that test off fairly quickly.
But as I said it definitely impacted marketing expense in the first quarter.
That in turn impacted margins for the Las Vegas Locals business and to some extent led to the numbers that we reported from a profitability perspective.
And we'll continue to evaluate those things on a kind of case-by-case basis.
We don't stay out there firm on aggressive marketing campaigns quarter-over-quarter.
At the same time we kind of owe it to ourselves and everybody else to make sure we're not missing something by being too frugal.
Now I think to add to Paul's point we want to make sure that we're not leaving revenue on the table.
And I think periodically we will try things to make sure that where we're seeing areas of strength we can capture that.
And we've done it historically as well over the last couple of years periodically.
But when we see it doesn't work we pull back aggressively and evaluate what we've seen.
Our next question comes from Harry Curtis of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
It looked like your margin at the IP was around 26%.
What would you guess your mature or run rate margin can get to over the next year or so? Well Harry I think that property really hasn't seen those type of margins since kind of the post-Hurricane Katrina days where obviously it ran at unbelievably high margins because of just the limited supply in that particular market.
We've talked about synergies overall.
We've quantified those.
It's $5-plus million.
As both Keith and I have said I think separately obviously not all of those have been put into play and fully realized at this point in time.
I think there's certainly some upside from the 25.9% that we posted.
B Connected as I said goes into play live there next week.
We think that is a big big plus from a customer experience perspective and customer reward perspective.
And in fairness this summer is the peak season in the Gulf Coast market.
So I'm not going to give you a specific number we can get to.
We do benefit obviously from a lower gaming tax rate in Mississippi.
With that said we've got more competition there than we have in other markets because it is not a limited-license jurisdiction and there is a small new player coming online here in the next month or so which we don't think will have an impact on our business but nonetheless will mix things up a little bit.
So I think we certainly got some upside from where we're at and I think we'll get a better read on it as we kind of play through the summer.
Research Division</strong> All right so we'll move our margin up to 50% then? You could do that.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Then going back to the locals market.
Obviously the promotional environment remains high.
And so what do you think the factors are that caused it to become more rational? Is it -- I mean historically when you see companies in bankruptcy they are afforded the opportunity to be less rational.
So do you have a sense of an amount of time that you might have to endure this elevated level of promotional activity? Harry this is Keith.
It's an interesting question.
It is I think tough to predict what your competitor is going to do.
A rational I think competitor would sample these types of programs determine they are not profitable and turn them off.
I think as we did in the first quarter we tried a few things to drive some revenue.
It didn't provide the results that we were looking for and therefore are not going to continue them.
So we would hope that we have some rational competitors in the market.
We hope that they will not continue to -- continue marketing programs that don't make them money but it's hard to predict.
Research Division</strong> And then the last question is -- again it's a similar question probably hard to answer.
But are you getting any rumblings of increases in promotional activity in Atlantic City? Might it be benign through the stronger summer months? But you do have some competitors again who have balance sheets that are kind of tough.
Do you think that that -- they're forced into a corner where when it comes to fall they begin ratcheting up promotional environment? Yes I think you answer your own question partially.
It is difficult to predict what's going to happen over the summer.
Look we -- we're seeing a good April at the Borgata.
We're coming into a very busy summer season.
I think there will be very robust business in Atlantic City over the summer.
And the fall will be the point in time where we'll begin to see more clearly what that impact is.
And properties at the lower end may act more irrationally but we'll just have to wait and see.
Our next question comes from Steven Kent of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First can you just talk about your rated and not rated players across the portfolio? You talked a little bit about it in the press release and then in your opening comments but are you seeing better traction from the higher end? The lower end? Both? Where's the greatest increases? And where you -- where do you find that you need to do the most work? And then on the Midwest and South regions maybe you could just talk about -- you mentioned weather as one of the issues and some of the other onetime issues.
But are there other core trends there that are improving that you want to talk about? Well first on the database question Steve.
The -- I mean not surprisingly as we've said in the past the higher end of the database is certainly the area where we continue to see strength.
I mean the customers we know the best they're obviously most entrenched with our brands.
And that segment continues to grow I think at a very healthy pace.
On the lower-end segment I obviously talked quite a bit about the lower-end segment in Las Vegas.
And I think the impact of those marketing programs as I said had a heck of a lot more to do with just the economy and individual financial situation a lot of folks are in as opposed to anything else.
Outside of Las Vegas we certainly are starting to see some positive signs at the lower end as well.
It shouldn't be a surprise.
As recovery takes hold you should see growth throughout the database.
And in fact we are starting to see in our best markets unrated growth which is something that we hadn't seen before.
Now again all those are factors in all honesty you should just expect if you're going to start to see an upswing in business overall.
I will note and it's kind of an interesting dynamic as we and certainly our competitors have gotten much better at putting loyalty cards in the hands of our customers the group of unrated almost becomes a difficult group to find anymore.
They sort of become extinct to some extent from the standpoint of you can't not check in to one of our hotels without getting handed a players club card.
So you basically only stay unrated for one trip and then you end up in the rated database where you stay obviously as long as your play continues.
So kind of the future conversation of unrated is maybe something that will kind of go the way because it is so easy to get a players club card and to some extent almost unofficially mandated as you walk in the door.
Your second question about weather I didn't specifically talk about weather.
I think some of our competitors have certainly talked about weather.
I think on a year-over-year basis in the first quarter we definitely had tougher weather conditions in 2011 that we had in 2012.
That certainly potentially would have had some positive contribution to the performance in our Midwest and South region.
If you look at our first quarter of 2011 financial details again going back to last year in the reconciliation page as we pulled out of EPS a gain that was -- or about $3 million related to some property tax adjustments we saw that as really offsetting last year the weather impact on our business.
So I think for Boyd Gaming in a unique perspective weather on a year-over-year comparison almost got factored out because we had an unusual financial situation last year that was positive EBITDA.
To add to some of Paul's comments Steve I think in the Midwest and South that business has definitely -- is not really in recovery mode anymore.
It's a business that we don't think of in that light.
It's a business that's continuing to strengthen.
It has a customer base that in terms of visitation and spend per visit generally the metrics are improving.
And I think hand in hand with that we do a really good job of managing not only on the cost side but how we market efficiently there to make sure that we're getting the full benefit of that.
And that's really a kind of a focus of the company across the company not just in the Midwest and South.
We just seem to have a healthier customer there and I'm sure many of our competitors are benefiting from that as well.
So sure everybody benefited from weather and an improving customer but I think it is against the backdrop of trying to manage the business as efficiently as possible.
And I think you're seeing a lot of that with just a very specific way in terms of IP as well.
Our next question comes from Mark Strawn at Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just had one question on Atlantic City.
You gave a few data points isolated data points about performance post-Revel.
Just broadly are total revenues and EBITDA up since the property opened? It's kind of hard to get a sense given the various metrics you gave.
Right we didn't -- Mark this is Keith.
We didn't talk about revenues and EBITDA and we're not going to project that probably for April.
But the volumes are up as I said the cash ADR is up our occupied rooms are up.
All the important business metrics are pointing in the right direction in the first kind of 3 weeks after they've opened.
So we're pleased with the initial results post opening of Revel.
We know that the full impact hasn't yet been felt.
We know that it will once again probably occur not until the fall season after the busy summer season when we see where things settle in.
But we're not going to be predicting revenues or giving out revenues for April.
Our next question comes from Joel Simkins at Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions for you.
Number one with the Strip coming back and obviously the SLS [ph] guys redoing the Sahara what does this do in terms of changing your thoughts with regard to the Echelon land? Joel this is Keith.
We continue to monitor the situation and if I look far enough into the future to determine when it is we should take a look at that project we don't have a solid view on that right now.
We're still monitoring it.
We're still trying to understand when that project may be restarted.
I think our last official statement was we still believe it's 3 to 5 years into the future.
I think that is still our feeling today that it is still 3 to 5 years in the future before we would do anything with that piece of land.
So our view hasn't changed.
We're very encouraged by continued development on the Strip.
We're very encouraged by increased visitation and the growth on the Strip and seeing increased occupied room nights and increased visitor counts.
Those are all positives for us.
But we're not ready to make a decision today.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of the Borgata stake that MGM holds is there any reason for us to assume that they might be willing to part ways with that before the mandated date? And my other follow-up here is you did have an announcement a couple of quarters ago back regarding an investment on a Native American project.
When can we expect to get some more color in that regard? On the -- your MGM question I think I've said for a while now that I'm not going to kind of predict how MGM is going to move through the process.
We're a little bit of an innocent bystander.
We don't have any real information in terms of kind of what they're currently doing or what their current thought process is.
So I don't really have any update in terms of how they're moving it or how quickly they may want to move it or whether or not they would let it go to the trustee after the 18-month period is up.
So I can't provide you really any other color on that.
With respect to the Native American investment we had made it's still kind of a work in progress.
It was a small investment we made for a tribe in California that we're still working with to see if we can pull a deal together and make an announcement.
We'll probably have something hopefully to report later in the year.
But it's still -- think of it as a construction in progress if you will not literally but just figuratively.
Our next question comes from Carlo Santarelli of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask briefly about Borgata and the guidance.
If you can kind of talk to -- obviously there's a lot of pushes and pulls with hold last year April being a favorable comparison.
But could you talk about maybe what the underlying cannibalization or impact from Revel that you guys have baked into your guidance and how that's kind of segmented both on the margin and top line? Yes.
Yes that's going to be a hard one for us to talk about.
I think generally we expect to have some marginal impact from Revel in the quarter and naturally what's being reflected in that guidance.
I would say it's hard for us to talk about the guidance in light of what we've seen so far only because the impact has been muted relative to the product that they've opened.
We got -- we fully recognized that they don't have all of their amenities.
We've made comments to that effect.
And so our guidance expects some impact.
It expects it to be not material just given the seasonality of the business.
And we expect to see perhaps really what's going to happen in the marketplace more toward the end of the year.
So I'm not sure what else we can really say in that regard.
Just to tag on to what Josh said the guidance we've provided incorporates some expected impact of Revel along with some offsetting marketing expenses and new marketing programs that we would anticipate to make sure that our customers continue to visit the Borgata along with additional efficiencies that we have built in over the quarter so that we can continue to manage the business and not only create the best experience but maximize the profitability of the property.
So all that gets boiled down into the guidance we gave but we're probably not going to be providing any details specifics on lost trips or lost customers or any of those types of statistics.
Our next question comes from Cameron McKnight of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is a question for Paul or Keith.
If we look at Borgata and Atlantic City we tend to think of it in terms of 3 discrete segments.
You've got the growing gaming customer which became more commoditized after Pennsylvania opened up; you've got the premium gaming customer; and then you've got the leisure customer on the weekend.
How do you think about the impact of Revel as it relates to I guess those 3 segments of demand? This is Keith.
I think ultimately that will be based on the success of their product and the success of their marketing programs.
Look being located on the Boardwalk in Atlantic City they I believe naturally will have a lot of the growing business a lot of the business on the Boardwalk.
I think the Marina district is viewed as a different location and we have the benefit of being in the Marina district maybe draws a slightly different customer.
Certainly the product that they've created is targeted at a premium customer.
Whether that premium customer gravitates to that product or whether they're able to execute on the promise and deliver on the promise I think is yet to be seen.
And so I think they'll probably get some of all that business the growing the premium and the leisure segment but it will depend on at the end of the day their execution of their business model as to where it really ends up.
Our next question comes from Bill Lerner of Union Gaming.
LLC</strong> Two questions.
One Paul for your Locals business and I'm really just thinking here I think about Gold Coast Orleans Sam's Town what percentage of -- generally of the revenue stories there comes from non-locals? I mean obviously geographically speaking they're destination relevant.
And then a quick follow-up.
Well it actually varies dramatically between those 3 properties.
Not surprisingly The Orleans has the lowest percentage of locals given it has almost 2 000 hotel rooms.
And that number kind of fluctuates a little bit but call it 50-50 at The Orleans to the Gold Coast and Sam's Town which would skew a little bit certainly more heavily locals Gold Coast in particular with its proximity to Chinatown and a very significant Asian gaming business particularly table game business at that location.
So they would push up into the I'll call it 70% 75% locals.
And then the Suncoast which you didn't mention is predominantly local say 95%.
LLC</strong> Got you there.
And then the follow-up is you guys mentioned Smith Center.
What have you seen Downtown? Everything seems to be inflecting down there since early March or mid-March when it opened.
But what are you seeing in second half of March and April? Is it similar to that? Is it a different player behaving differently? I'm just curious.
Yes I don't know that the folks which appear to be primarily local in all honesty going to The Smith Center are going to be gaming customers for anybody Downtown.
With that said The Smith Center is as I'm sure you've seen just a beautiful facility and I'm sure will attract.
And certainly us and others will use it for our casino guests as just another amenity in town to take care of folks.
And there will be some trickle over there.
Overall I think beyond The Smith Center there is the revitalization of Downtown.
And in all honesty many many folks I think are just working it into their normal routine of coming to Las Vegas.
There was recently a visitor profile for Las Vegas that was released for 2011 and that was put together by the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority that showed actually some statistics that potentially there was a decline in Downtown from a visitation perspective.
And I got to tell you there is no statistic that we can see in our business that would corroborate that particular survey.
And maybe it was just one of those things where surveys sometimes skew with some error to them.
Our next question comes from Brian Egger of Topeka Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Maybe you can just clarify a little bit about your trajectory of interest expense for the next couple of quarters.
It's been a -- moved around a bit.
And just in view of some of your comments on the call I don't know if Josh if we could maybe get a little bit better sense of what's happening in the next few quarters on interest? Sure.
Well we provided annual guidance on our last call regarding interest expense and so I'd ask to refer you to that.
With respect to -- so interest expense on our income statement is comprised of interest at Boyd and interest at Borgata.
And Borgata's interest expense at about $20 million a quarter is probably a good run rate.
So not much changing there.
And at Boyd we've generally said I think around $160 million to $165 million.
And that's pretty much spread evenly throughout as well.
I think when you compare it to prior year is what makes it a little confusing.
But I think the first quarter and really even beginning late in the fourth quarter those run rates are pretty consistent.
Our next question comes from Joe Greff of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions were addressed.
Josh within sort of the nonoperating items that maybe you can talk about like corporate expense depreciation and CapEx how are you viewing them for the rest of the year? Consistent with the comment I just made we gave guidance at the end of the fourth quarter or when we announced fourth quarter around the expectations for those line items and that -- those would not have changed.
And I can go through that individually if you'd like by line item offline.
Our next question comes from Shaun Kelley of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just want to go back to the Borgata guidance question because I guess down 12% year-on-year at the midpoint.
I mean I understand you don't want to give too much in the way of specifics there but if you're not seeing an impact today just how conservative is that? Or I mean are some of the marketing programs that you're planning as kind of Revel ramps up are some of those marketing programs kind of already in process and can't be dialed back at this point? I don't -- I mean it's not the latter.
I think it's just more a reflection of what we expect to happen in the marketplace.
Any variance from last year is really what we expect to occur purely attributable to what's happening at Revel and the market.
It's nothing -- it's not like we're...
And look if you'd look at the Borgata number relative to the first quarter we talked a fair amount about how in all honesty we played lucky.
And just like we pointed out when things are down we also pointed out when things are up because we don't expect those trends to necessarily continue.
Statistically we expect them to normalize.
So obviously if you'd adjust for that the first quarter number for Borgata wasn't as large as we posted.
But certainly luck played into that.
And I think that to some extent ties back to the expectation for the second quarter.
We expect normalization.
We expect some impact from Revel.
Again as Keith said not really seeing it right now but it's a long quarter ahead.
And I'm trying to put out a number that we think is reasonable and that is achievable.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's actually really helpful.
And then I guess the second question would just be as you guys are kind of looking through your database have you thought about Maryland at all in terms of incremental competition for Atlantic City? Is that something that as you look at your database and where some of the customers are coming from obviously Pennsylvania has been negative -- negatively impacted but the customers come up that far from Maryland? Or is that -- or do you not think that will be much of an impact when Maryland Live! opens in June? Yes Shaun this is Keith.
We're not overly concerned with the impact from that operation.
We have looked at our customers where they're coming from.
We're more focused on those properties kind of in the Philadelphia and the New York area.
We're not expecting any impact really from that operation.
Our next question comes from Kevin Coyne of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> You had mentioned that M&amp;A will remain a key part of your strategy going forward.
I know there's a report back in February that a large gaming company may consider selling some of its Midwest assets.
I was just wondering.
Is that something you would look at? Or would you look at something that perhaps would have a safer more secure customer list? Well probably.
I'm not -- look when it comes to M&amp;A we're certainly looking for good acquisitions like the IP and we'll be very selective as we look for those assets.
We're looking in markets that would be strategic to us something where maybe we're not in today.
And we will be very careful about the assets we select to make sure that they're complementary to make sure that we believe that there's future value there that we can drive much like at the IP.
We'll be very careful obviously not to buy an asset that we don't think we can improve.
So I think we've been very successful over the years at buying assets and unlocking value that is trapped inside them and increasing EBITDA.
And that will be our focus.
So if we don't believe that that's possible we probably won't look at the asset.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just turning to Atlantic City.
Obviously your new competitor is focusing on trying to draw group and convention business to the market.
I was just curious if you are -- have been able to sell or getting any inquiry to sell any large-block rooms for '12 or '13 as perhaps a sign of demand returning or coming into the market on the group side? Yes I'm not in a position to provide any color on that question right now.
I don't have those statistics in front of me.
So I at this point can't help you with that.
Our next question is from David Bain of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Hey guys I just have a question on the complementary meal tax situation.
And wondering kind of what that forward process is if you're accruing for that tax.
And then if you could potentially speak to the impact or quantify it one way or another? So obviously it is a process that's been going on for a while.
There was a hearing earlier this week with Department of Taxation that I don't really think provided any new information or any direction on the process of that.
I imagine at the end of the day it will wind up in the Supreme Court or very potentially there is some legislative solution that occurs during the next legislative session.
It is quite a significant bill to the state of Nevada.
With respect to accruing no we are not accruing because we expect that our position is the right position and that we have a refund coming.
And so we're not accruing.
We don't believe the state has the right to implement this tax the way they're going about implementing it and that they need to go through a very formal rule making process that they haven't gone through.
So we'll just see how it continues to play out.
But no we're not accruing it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is it -- I mean can you quantify the significance? When will -- so just to try to help us out a little bit? David I -- we can but I don't know the number off the top of my head.
It was a while ago that I saw the calculation and I just haven't seen it recently.
So I don't remember the number exactly.
But it's not -- it's somewhere between $1 million to $2 million.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back to Josh Hirsberg for any closing remarks.
Well thank you operator.
And we appreciate each of you participating in the call today.
And should you have any follow-up questions feel free to call the company.
Thank you.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Boyd Gaming Corporation Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note: This event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Josh Hirsberg.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Amy and good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call this morning are Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Paul Chakmak our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Our comments today will include statements relating to our estimated future results including among others guidance for the third quarter the financial outlook for the company our expansion and development projects and other market business and property trends that are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of today's date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to though those noted in our earnings release our periodic reports and our other filings with the SEC.
During our call today we will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
For complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the Investors section of our website at boydgaming.com.
We do not provide a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures due to our inability to project special charges and certain expenses.
Finally as a reminder today's conference call is also being webcast live on boydgaming.com and will be available for replay on the Investor Relations section of that website shortly after the completion of this call.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Keith Smith our President and CEO.
Keith.
Thanks Josh.
Good morning everyone and we appreciate you joining us this morning for our second quarter earnings call.
In addition to reviewing our second quarter financial results we have 2 new development opportunities to share with you.
In a few minutes I will have Paul Chakmak take you through details of each of our business segments.
But first let me start with a top line review.
Our results for the second quarter clearly were not in line with our expectations or the guidance we provided on our last earnings call.
At the time of our last earnings call we had seen several consecutive quarters of encouraging trends in the business both in Nevada and in the Midwest and South.
And there were no signs that these trends would change in a material way.
But starting in May we began to see some weakness in economic trends both locally and nationally.
Manufacturing job creation and consumer spending all started to slow.
This slowdown in economic activity clearly showed up in our business in May and June and impacted our overall results.
But beyond the slowing economy each region had its own unique challenges in the quarter.
In Nevada our Las Vegas Locals region was impacted by low sports hold and higher employee benefit expenses.
In Atlantic City the market continues to face increasing competition both in New Jersey and the nearby jurisdictions and that is reflected in our business.
However the Borgata continues to increase its market share and we believe it will remain the dominant resort in the region for years to come.
In our Midwest and South region results were more encouraging.
We maintained or grew market share in every market where we operate.
This has been the strongest region of the country for the domestic gaming industry for some time now and it is also our most robust business segment.
That is why we are so excited about our pending acquisition of Peninsula Gaming.
Acquiring properties in Kansas Iowa and Louisiana is a clear indication of our confidence in these markets.
In the Peninsula markets team members and customer base provide an extraordinarily strong foundation for delivering positive future financial performance.
We continue to make good progress toward completing this transaction.
The Federal Trade Commission has granted us early termination of the Hart-Scott-Rodino review period and we have filed applications with gaming regulators in Kansas Iowa and Louisiana.
Based on our progress to date we anticipate this transaction will close as intended some time in the second half of the fourth quarter.
Once again it makes compelling sense to expand our footprint in the area of the country where the gaming industry is strongest and that is precisely what the Peninsula acquisition does.
While the pending acquisition of Peninsula gaming is a huge milestone and easily the most significant near-term growth opportunity for our company we're also excited about the 2 new development agreements we announced this morning.
These agreements provide the foundation for future growth.
The first of these new agreements is with Wilton Rancheria a federally recognized tribe located about 30 miles southeast of Sacramento California.
This project will provide us our first entry into California further diversifying our geographic footprint and extending our brand to an attractive new market.
We are early in the process of this development and anticipate it will take approximately 24 months to receive all the required approvals to proceed.
The second agreement and equally attractive is an agreement we have entered into with Sunrise Sports Entertainment the company that operates the BankAtlantic Center which is a major entertainment venue located in Broward County Florida and home to the NHL Florida Panthers.
Boyd and Sunrise Sports have agreed to work together to pursue our development adjacent to the BankAtlantic Center should the state of Florida decide to approve expanding gaming opportunities in South Florida.
The BankAtlantic Center is the largest indoor arena of its kind in Florida host to more than 200 events a year.
Directly across the street from the BankAtlantic Center is the Sawgrass Mills mall the sixth largest shopping mall in the country drawing the second highest annual visitor volume of any attraction in Florida.
This development would be ideally located in a major metropolitan area with terrific guest counts right in between 2 attractions that already draw a substantial visitor volume.
While additional Florida development is contingent on the state passing legislation this agreement gives us an additional exciting option for Florida if and when it does.
With regard to our other operation in South Florida Dania Jai Alai we continue to look at a number of alternatives for this property.
These options include but arent limited to further developing the site or selling it.
As the state considers gaming expansion and potential changes in tax laws we believe the value of Dania should only increase.
Finally we are well positioned to capitalize on the legalization of Internet poker in the United States thanks to our joint venture with bwin.party.
Federal legislation remains the best option for online gaming and we believe the chances are good it will pass although timing remains uncertain.
In the meantime states are moving ahead and we are ready to compete in this space under either a state or a federal scenario.
As we have said repeatedly we are keenly focused on generating long-term growth for our shareholders through both improving store core operations and through acquisitions and other growth opportunities.
We have made great progress on the growth front recently executing 5 separate agreements since the middle of last year.
But we have not lost our focus on working to continuously improve our core operations.
The core of our business strategy in Nevada and across the company remains focused on developing and maintaining strong relationships with our customers.
The inherent soundness of this approach has not changed.
We have extraordinary assets our team members deliver exceptional personal service and our management is as knowledgeable and experienced as any in the industry.
Our near-term focus will clearly be on the successful execution of the agreements we have announced in recent months especially Peninsula Gaming.
However we will remain opportunistic.
If a new growth opportunity emerges that make sense for our company we will not hesitate to pursue it.
Thank you for your time today.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Paul who will review our operations in more detail.
Paul? Thanks Keith.
Hello everybody.
Our second quarter results were mixed from an operating perspective.
Results in Nevada and in Borgata fell below expectations for a variety of reasons.
But our Midwest and South results were solid led by continued strength along the Gulf Coast.
Now let's begin with our Las Vegas Locals business.
When we last spoke in late April we were encouraged by the trends we were seeing in our Locals business.
As the economy weakened beginning in May and continuing into June business from our casual gaming customers softened leading to shortfall in results.
There were other factors in play as well.
One was a spike in our employee benefit costs during the quarter.
Another factor was an unusually bad run of luck in our sports books.
Taken together these 2 factors benefit costs and sports accounted for about 2/3 of the shortfall in EBITDA in the Locals region.
As we have said earlier we are contending with an aggressive promotional environment in the locals business.
But importantly this competition has had no impact on our top tier business.
In fact the tremendous relationships we have built with our top tier customers has been a real bright spot in our Locals business this year as business volumes among our core customers have continued to grow.
The promotional environment has however had a significant impact on play of customers in our lower tiers customers we consider to be casual gamers.
We're confident that our Nevada business offers compelling value but are at the same time continually evaluating our mix of tactics to ensure we perform better with all customer segments.
Now let's move to Downtown Last Vegas.
We experienced an EBITDA decline in this business segment as well but are confident that the causes are temporary.
As business trends strengthened in Hawaii and in an effort to improve our margins we began pulling back on marketing programs that were put in place last year.
But after discontinuing these efforts it quickly became clear that they are extremely effective in driving business from Hawaii.
Consequently we resumed these programs and are seeing the early signs of recovery.
The region was also affected by a shift in our Hawaiian charter service.
In order to run more efficiently we've reduced the number of weekly flights of from 5 to 4 lowering our fuel expense and maximizing our use of available seats without significantly reducing the number of customers flying into Las Vegas.
So we are confident that the shortfall we saw in the second quarter was a short term in nature and expect business to stabilize in the third quarter and resume growing in the fourth.
In our Midwest and South region results were more encouraging.
EBITDA grew nearly $12 million before considering last year's benefit of a $2.8 million nonrecurring property tax adjustment at Blue Chip.
Blue Chip posted a strong operating performance and has increased its market share for 12 consecutive months.
And Delta Downs continued to generate double-digit EBITDA growth as well posting all-time monthly coin in records for April and June.
But we are particularly pleased with the continued strength at the IP.
When we first announced this acquisition we said we were confident there was a lot of potential upside at this property and we continue to deliver on the promise.
EBITDA at the IP rose nearly 25% in the second quarter.
This is our best year-over-year improvement since we acquired the property.
We recently began introducing our nationwide player loyalty program B Connected and it should begin to have an impact in the third quarter.
This will allow us to make more strategic marketing investments which will drive more profitable business to the property.
We're also seeing the positive effects of efficiency measures at the IP where we are saving money without compromising the IP's reputation for strong customer service and outstanding amenities.
The IP is running ahead of our expectations and is demonstrating our ability to unlock significant value with acquisitions.
Finally let's briefly touch on Borgata.
A new casino resort opened on the Boardwalk in early April and the property in the Marina district was remodeled and re-branded.
However these projects did not generate incremental growth in the market.
In fact the net result was a 6.9% decline in casino win for the market in the quarter.
But there are reasons for optimism as well.
Borgata actually grew its market share during the quarter even with one of the lowest reinvestment rates in the city.
That speaks to our ongoing ability to retain our customers even against the most extreme competition.
We attribute that to the quality of our amenities as well as the hospitality and service we provide to our customers.
These are obviously challenging times for Atlantic City.
But Borgata remains the clear market leader and is well positioned to maintain that position for years to come.
To recap overall results did not meet our expectations but we remain confident in the long-term fundamentals of our business.
In our Las Vegas Locals region we are actively working on new programs to enhance revenues from our casual gaming guests.
In Downtown Las Vegas we have made modifications to our Hawaiian marketing programs and are seeing business levels recover.
In Atlantic City Borgata is contending with heightened competition but we expect to see solid results during the busy summer season.
And the brightest spot in our operation continues to be our Midwest and South segment which continued to post operating growth in the quarter.
The strong performance of this business segment shows why expansion in this region is a central piece of our long-term growth strategy.
Thanks for your time today and now I would like to turn the call over to Josh.
Thanks Paul.
I'll start with a few items from the quarter and then provide third quarter guidance.
Beginning with the balance sheet excluding Borgata Boyd's debt balance at the end of the second quarter was approximately $2.8 billion.
This balance is higher than the debt balance at the end of the first quarter primarily as a result of our pre-funding into a cash account a $200 million equity contribution for the Peninsula acquisition.
Our cash balance at the end of the quarter was $327 million as a result of the Peninsula equity contribution I just mentioned and the timing of quarter end.
Also during the quarter we issued $350 million in senior notes that mature in 2020.
These notes were issued at par with a coupon of 9%.
At quarter end there was $1.4 billion outstanding under our credit facility providing $300 million of incremental availability.
From a financial covenant perspective as calculated under the terms of our credit agreement at the end of the quarter secured leverage was 3.7x compared to a covenant of 4.25x and total leverage was 7.1x versus a covenant of 7.5x.
Borgata's debt balance was $816 million of which $24 million was outstanding under their $75 million credit facility.
Their cash balance at the end of the quarter was $34 million.
On the income statement corporate expense excluding tier-based compensation expense was $10.5 million in the quarter essentially even with last year.
Consolidated depreciation expense that is including Borgata was $51 million an increase of -- over prior year of $2 million.
Our depreciation expense was approximately $35 million which includes approximately $4.8 million associated with IP while Borgata's depreciation expense was $16 million.
Other operating items on the income statement of $2.2 million represents an amalgamation of several different items including $2.2 million received by Borgata as a result of the Water Club fire that occurred in 2008 $6.3 million related to an insurance settlement from the Tunica flooding that occurred in May 2011 and $6.2 million of acquisition-related costs as a result of our agreement to acquire Peninsula Gaming.
The net impact of these items is excluded from our calculation of adjusted earnings as shown in the adjusted earnings table attached to our release.
Excluding the impact of Las Vegas Energy consolidated interest expense for the quarter that is including Borgata was approximately $62 million marginally higher than last year.
Our interest expense was $41 million a little over $1 million higher than last year as higher expense this year was offset by swaps that matured in the prior year.
Borgata was $21 million about even with prior year.
We reported a tax benefit in the quarter that more than offset our pretax loss as a result of settling outstanding audit issues that resulted in the release of our reserves from uncertain tax positions.
For guidance purposes we are assuming a 35% tax rate for 2012.
Our capital expenditures in the quarter were approximately $25 million and $13 million at Borgata.
The room project at Borgata was completed in the second quarter and has received very positive feedback from our customers.
Now in terms of guidance for the third quarter.
As has been our practice we will provide quarterly EBITDA and EPS guidance.
We'll provide separate guidance for Borgata.
We will provide adjusted EPS guidance for the consolidated business including both our wholly-owned segments and Borgata.
You should note that in the third quarter last year there was a $4.6 million favorable property tax adjustment that benefited Blue Chip.
Hence the $44.5 million in EBITDA that was reported last year for the Midwest and South segment was $40 million on a comparable basis.
Also interest expense in the third quarter will be higher as a result of the $350 million of bonds that we issued in the second quarter at 9%.
So I expect that number to be $67 million to $68 million for the quarter.
With those considerations in mind and factoring in the trends in our business currently we expect wholly-owned EBITDA after deduction for corporate expense to be in the range of $77 million to $82 million.
We expect Borgata to generate EBITDA of $47 million to $49 million compared to $50 million last year in the third quarter.
With this range of EBITDA guidance adjusted EPS for the quarter is expected to range from a loss of $0.05 to breakeven.
With that Operator that concludes our remarks and we're now ready for any questions from participants on the call.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Felicia Hendrix of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> You all addressed -- Paul you addressed the promotional environment in the Las Vegas Locals market in your prepared remarks.
Just wondering if you could walk us through what you're doing now to mitigate that if anything.
And then also in Las Vegas Locals I was wondering you mentioned the performance of the top-tier customers that they're doing well.
You explained why the casual gamers are not performing as well.
Just wondering about the players in between those 2 levels.
Well I think I guess first I'll talk about kind of what we're doing.
And as you know it's kind of a constant state of flux in trying to dial in really the right formula to maximize both visitation as well as obviously profitability.
And I think what you'll see is over the course of really the balance of the year a series of different programs kind of roll out from us that certainly take care of our best folks who as I said continue to be very important to our business and are very engaged with our brands and what we do and are certainly folks that we want to pay a special amount of attention to but really focus on where we have seen overall growth in the market.
I mean you can see some of those numbers in the gaming abstracts that I know everybody follows from the state of Nevada.
And that is the as we called it casual gaming segment that focus on some of the more trendy games typically in the penny denomination and we'll continue to enhance the product offering as well as the programs that focus on those particular players.
As far as everybody kind of in between I guess to answer that question a bit steady as she goes there.
And again folks that like to frequent our facilities on a very regular basis continue to do so and I don't want anybody to think otherwise.
Really at most all levels it's really folks that are kind of coming back as the economy lagged are seeing gaming as a fun entertainment option and that is really the term of our casual gamer.
It's somebody that doesn't show up necessarily every week or even every month but just see gaming in Las Vegas as one of those options for them to have a little fun.
And that's an important and a very large segment of the business.
It's good to see that there may be some improvements in that area and we just need to make sure that we capture kind of our fair share of that.
Research Division</strong> And then just moving to Atlantic City your margins were lower year-over-year by a lot more than we thought.
I know there were some puts and takes in there.
But that was despite your ability to keep promotional allowances as a percentage of revenues sort of flat.
So just wondering what was causing some of the cost pressures there.
Felicia this is Keith.
In Atlantic City one of the big items that is in the EBITDA decline is about $2.5 million in property taxes.
And thats a difference year-over-year.
The property tax rate is up about 11% year-over-year as a result of many of the properties in Atlantic City filing appeals and being successful in their appeals.
So the rate continues to move up.
In our 9 years of operation we've never seen that type of a rate increase year-over-year.
So that is probably the most significant impact to the business there is $2.5 million year-over-year in property taxes.
The next question comes from Shaun Kelley Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Following up on Atlantic City I think we were also a little surprised by I guess the magnitude of flows through there.
So could you just give us a little bit more sense in terms of maybe the promotional side? It looks like promotional costs did come down a little bit year-on-year but that still wasn't enough to kind of be -- to be a full offset.
Do you -- so do you expect that to get that -- I guess that environment to get better based on your guidance for next quarter? Yes Shaun this is Keith.
I think when you look at Atlantic City and look at the second quarter in our operations specifically we knew that Revel was going to be opening.
And frankly we took a little bit more of a measured approach and pulled back on some of our marketing dollars to simply see what was going to happen.
Revel has been through this kind of rolling opening phase and they continue to open parts and pieces of that facility as we go.
We are reinvesting a little higher rate in our customers going forward.
Once again we pulled back in the quarter specifically just to watch the opening of Revel and see how they responded.
I think you'll see our reinvestment a little bit higher going forward.
And some of the new -- I think the other impact are some of the new food outlets that are in the market both at Revel and over at the Golden Nugget and people going out and sampling some of those.
And frankly because the market hasn't grown and neither Revel or Golden Nugget have been successful in growing the overall market you're just seeing a few less people in the building.
Shaun I think it's -- first it's Paul.
I think to add to Keith's point it comes back to his previous answer to Felicia on the property tax difference which is in operating expense at Borgata.
So when you look at the decline in revenue commensurate to the decline in EBITDA and your comment to flow-through which is completely fair then factor in there's $2.5 million of higher operating expense in that EBITDA decline.
And so I think you see one of those maybe a little bit more normal flow-through impact.
Research Division</strong> And so to be clear on that then there -- the property tax or issues probably is that only for the second quarter? That wont continue in the third.
No it will continue at an elevated rate into the future.
We have an appeal pending ourselves.
We would expect that appeal to come to a conclusion sometime towards the end of the year or at the end of the year and we'll see how successful we are.
But until that point in time until our appeal gets successfully heard and dealt with then we'll see an elevated property tax rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess then just lastly I'm sorry to beat a dead horse on this but in terms of the guidance I mean you were down 20% or so with the elevated property taxes this quarter kind of year-on-year.
I mean your guidance only is estimating like a 5% decline for the third quarter but you've got Revel coming on with more amenities.
So I'm just trying to kind of -- to understand are you seeing a little bit more -- kind of I guess a little bit more customers flowing back in July? Is there something that you're seeing that maybe we're not that's giving you a little bit more confidence in the market sequentially for the third quarter is kind of where I'm going.
Yes I think -- Shaun this is Josh.
I think from the impact that we've seen in the second quarter while it was disappointing did have some unique items such as the property taxes.
But also I would say that certainly we had some self-inflicted results as well as Keith mentioned in terms of not marketing as aggressively as we normally would relative to our own budgets.
And so I think from the perspective of looking at the second quarter and trying to understand it sequentially going into the third quarter I would say there's really those -- there's kind of 3 items.
One a little bit of self infliction as we didn't want to fight trial of folks who wanted to go see Revel.
And so that affected revenue and EBITDA.
Secondly in terms of the property taxes we mentioned.
And then thirdly coming into the third quarter it is the strongest period of time and we've really seen limited impact from our customers on Revel -- from Revel.
I mean they've had an impact on our food and beverage side of things maybe some of the lower-end customers but certainly not the core components of our business.
And so our thesis continues to remain intact; that is that we don't really expect to see the most significant impact from Revel until the fourth quarter just given the seasonality of the business.
We feel real good about the trends that we're seeing starting off in July and that's the basis of our guidance really.
And Shaun this is Keith.
Let me try to maybe just kind of wrap it up with a couple of final comments.
The business at Borgata remains very solid.
We have strong results in the hotel occupancy is up ADR is up cash ADR is up.
Our group business is very strong.
Our mid- and high-end table games business has remained strong.
Our slot business remains strong.
And so we are expecting a good summer season.
Now one of the things you have to keep in mind is that last summer season we ended up closed for a few days as a result of a hurricane.
And so there is a -- I always hate to talk about weather on these calls but there's a weather-related issue that is buried in last year's Q3 numbers.
So it does cause some comparison issues to be fair.
Research Division</strong> And -- yes I think we had a little bit of that baked in.
But you're right that was probably pretty material on a year-on-year basis.
Last thing for me was just on Kansas Star in particular and kind of thinking about Peninsula Gaming overall.
Obviously last quarter was a huge out-of-the-box kind of quarter for them in terms of margins and the initial revenues.
We've seen revenues in the second quarter for Kansas Star decline a little bit sequentially but it doesn't seem too extreme.
Is that kind of -- have you seen the -- is the performance there kind of within your underwriting and kind of what you guys are expecting? Or has it been any worse or any better than anticipated? I think the public results that have been issued on Kansas Star Shaun really frankly mirror the start-up of any new property with initial surge with everybody going there in the first month or 2 to see what it's all about to a slight tail-off before probably we have continued to ramp up.
Also keep in mind there is a major expansion of that project which is effectively the permanent casino that'll open some time around the end of the year.
So there's another wave coming.
Research Division</strong> Yes absolutely.
And the other thing we don't know this is Keith is the seasonality of that business.
Every market that we operate in has its own seasonality.
From Louisiana to Illinois to Mississippi in the East and West Coast they all operate somewhat differently.
And I don't think we quite understand the seasonality of that business yet because we haven't lapped a year.
So I think there was a couple of things that will play out in the future.
We're still very very excited about the acquisition.
We're very excited about the results.
As I said in my prepared comments it is on track to close later this year or towards the end of the year and it's going to be a tremendous addition to our company.
So we're really looking forward to it.
Our next question comes from Joe Greff at JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Question for you on Peninsula.
I know Keith you commented earlier about seeing some softness generally starting in the middle of May.
And since then what are you seeing within broadly the Peninsula portfolio? How has it performed since you announced the deal in mid May? Then I have a follow-up.
Joe this is Josh.
We -- they're a separate company.
We don't own them at this time so we're not going to talk about trends in their business other than what is publicly out there as reported by the state.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then you earlier talked about Hurricane Irene's impact on last year's third quarter at Borgata.
Can you quantify what that EBITDA impact was? I believe you said you would have generated year-over-year growth in EBITDA 3Q '11 versus 3Q '10 were it not for Irene but if you can sort of pencil in what you think that that EBITDA impact is that would be helpful in kind of understanding your guidance.
Joe I think -- this is Josh.
I think the estimation at that point was $5 million or $6 million for that weekend because it was a significant weekend as I recall and there was a lot of marketing and programs planned for that that were not able to take place as a result of it.
The next question comes from Steve Kent at Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First and maybe we're doing this wrong.
But when we back out the impact of the IP the Imperial Palace we see -- I see revenues only growing around 2.6% and EBITDA actually declining 6.6% for Midwest and South.
And I just was wondering if that was in line or better because that to me sounds a little bit worse than what we would have expected.
And also does that include any cannibalization impact? And then second I can't help but ask what was the specific impact of bad luck on your regional casino sports book since second quarter other than NBA basketball.
I can't think of anything else that would affect it very much.
It's Paul.
Let me try to answer both questions.
First on the Midwest and South region backing out IP the other adjustment as I had mentioned that you need to make is last year there was a $2.8 million nonrecurring property tax adjustment in Blue Chip that was good news last year that artificially increased that number related to some accounting and not related to operations.
So if you factor that piece out on an EBITDA basis the Midwest and South region was up slightly.
And as I said the strength in that business overall came out of the Gulf Coast markets.
I think as we've talked in the past there are a couple of markets that continue to be under pressure like the Tunica Mississippi market and Shreveport Louisiana market.
But with that said to Keith's point we either maintained or grew market share in every single market we operate in in the Midwest and South region.
On the sports book which really is primarily an impact on the Las Vegas Locals business and to a lesser extent the Downtown Las Vegas business it was baseball.
And it was parlay cards that is bets that involve multiple games with odds being given to the bettor.
There were many favorites that won during the quarter over a fairly long period of time.
We happen to be one of the largest parlay card writers in town.
It is a very key part of our business so it will tend to affect us good or bad more significantly than others.
And that impact was about $1 million in the quarter versus the prior year.
Our next question comes from Harry Curtis at Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
Turning back to Atlantic City.
Keith do you have any sense that capacity is going to come out in Atlantic City over the next year and that it might become more rational? Actually I don't have any specific information or knowledge that there'll be any reduction in capacity there.
So I don't have any insight sorry.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the follow-up question was with Peninsula Gaming.
Can you talk a bit more about what you believe is the low-hanging fruit there? Where can you step in and improve operations? Has there been -- have there been any operating -- areas of operating weakness? What about -- and also is there any -- has -- is there any investment that you can make that should have high ROI returns like on the slot floors? Sure.
Well as we talked about the acquisition over the last several months and even back when we announced it in the middle of May I think weve talked about this; slightly different than the IP.
This is a very well run company very high-quality assets very high margins as you look through their business.
They operate a very strong business.
Having said all of that there are opportunities.
I think ones -- the opportunities are different than the IP.
The opportunities center around synergies purchasing issues with being part of a larger company whether that be groceries or whether that be insurance-type issues.
I think there are opportunities with our B Connected brand as we're able to roll that out and have maybe a more targeted focused marketing effort.
And we're seeing the benefits of that at the IP currently so we look forward to that.
But other than that this one's I think very solid business very well run very high margins.
And those are kind of the couple of areas that we look forward to as we take over that business.
Next question comes from John Maxwell at Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Keith just a quick question on the Florida announcement you made.
Just wondering what the thought process was pursuing a potential property there while you have the Dania property.
It doesn't look like it's that far away.
Or is it really just this sunrise area is just -- would be that much stronger of a market? A couple of thoughts.
One it is -- it's a good 20 miles from -- between the 2 sites.
But more than anything it is simply the quality of the location and the quality of the site.
When you look at the demographics in the area when you look at the amount of traffic the fact that these are well-known destinations both Sawgrass Mills mall as well as the BankAtlantic Center theyre locations people currently travel to in very large numbers.
As I said Sawgrass Mills Mall being the second highest visitor destination in the area means that people know that it's there.
So it's a great site.
There's a lot of land there.
There's a lot of opportunities to do things.
We just think overall if there's an opportunity for expanding gaming in South Florida that -- for a more full-scale gaming that this could potentially be a better site.
We've basically taken an option on it if you will and we'll see how things develop.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So does that mean if let's say Florida doesn't move forward with that that you kind of revisit plans for Dania? Or would that be -- is that more likely to be an asset for sale? Well we're juggling all that right now in terms of determining the value of Dania and whether there's more value in holding it to develop or more value in looking to sell that property.
So it's something that we look at every week and every month and try and balance the best opportunity for that asset that we have.
We obviously have owned it for a number of years having developed it because we dont like the current dynamics in that market.
But if there's changes in the law changes in tax rates there may be more opportunities there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the California project does the tribe need land in trust? Or is that already in place? The tribe does not currently have land in trust.
We don't believe that to be an issue.
This is a tribe that has been restored and so we expect that to take place over the next year or 2.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally Josh the mechanics with Peninsula.
So when the deal closes as you talk about kind of the second half of the fourth quarter is that when the new financing gets put in place? Or mechanically does it work that way or is it -- does it come a different way? Yes I think it comes a different way John.
I think it happens sometime between now and the actual closing just so everything is in place for the acquisition.
And then upon consummating the acquisition then we'll take steps to take out their existing debt with the proceeds we've raised from the commitments we have today from the banks.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you would -- so the commitments could be -- you can put that in place -- okay all right I get it.
So you can just put in place before the actual and that when the deal is -- everything is signed of on you just move forward that way? Right.
So you get everything in place so you can close the transaction and then you move forward with taking out the rest of the capital structure.
Our next question comes from David Farber with Credit Suisse.
I just -- 3 questions.
First on the maximum leverage covenant I believe steps down to 7.25% at the end of the year.
Just curious if you anticipate any issues there.
And then maybe as a follow-up if you can remind us how the Peninsula assets potentially play into the covenant calculations.
And then I have a couple follow-ups.
Right.
We don't anticipate an issue with the step down by year end of the total leverage covenant.
And only to the extent that we're actually receiving management fees from Peninsula's assets would they somehow benefit from the covenants today.
The Peninsula assets will be in an unrestricted sub and the obligations of Peninsula -- of the Peninsula debt will be limited to the Peninsula assets.
Boyd will have no obligation.
And so for that reason it doesn't come into consideration in our covenants Dave.
And as currently contemplating do you anticipate receiving a management fee that was originally talked about in the deal? Or they're still -- those conversations still moving? \No I think we plan to receive a management fee.
And then 2 additional questions.
Do you guys anticipate any future cash outflows that are associated with either of these development agreements in the next year or so? And if so maybe what are they? And then one more.
This is Keith.
There's no significant outflows on either of the development agreements in the next year or so.
And then just in Las Vegas Locals just curious.
Just to follow up I think on some earlier questions.
On the cost structure side you described what seems to be higher employee benefits.
I'm just curious if that's running and has been running through the P&amp;L sort of on a trailing basis.
Or is that new to the second quarter? And how should we think about the cost structure in that segment? Well we are as a company self-insured on the health care side.
It -- we make our best estimates as to what those costs run on a monthly and quarterly basis.
We took a catch-up charge at the end of the second quarter based on some negative trending that we were starting to see in the business.
It is honestly difficult to predict what the costing will be for the rest of the year obviously that we have because as you would expect though we have a whole lot of lives covered under our plan a few significant cases can materially impact the company overall.
So we think we're in the right spot obviously at the end of the second quarter based on the additional charges that are in the quarter but we'll just have to see how the rest of the year plays out.
The next question comes from Brian Egger at Topeka Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a question about the promotional environment I guess really asking it in 2 different capacities.
The first is in the various Midwest markets.
Although you guys obviously did quite well relative to the market conditions certainly the same-store trends in those markets deteriorated very much throughout the quarter and I'm just wondering as that happened have you seen any change in the promotional climate in any of these markets? And I was going to ask specifically back to Atlantic City for a second.
As the Revel seems to have been modifying its strategy in terms of maybe focusing a bit more on some of their gaming programs have you seen them change behaviorally as a competitor at all as the quarter progressed either? Well we'll start with Atlantic City.
This is Keith.
I think I was going to -- as Revel has rolled out or continued to roll out the opening of that property and then using that asset I think as we've all seen the numbers that have been produced they have continued to ramp up their marketing efforts they have continued to refine them.
I think they have continued to get increasingly more aggressive.
And you can see that in the numbers that are produced in the Atlantic City when you look at promotional expense.
And so they have continued to do that.
I think the market as a whole in Atlantic City I would call it as somewhat varied as different operators are taking different approaches.
Once again when you look at the promotional spend and the numbers that come out of Atlantic City you will see that some operators are down and other operators have really increased the level of promotional expenditures that they are spending.
And so there's really a wide -- kind of a wide variety of what's happening in the city right now.
But Revel clearly is increasing the overall spend and that just -- once again thats just a matter of public numbers that are out there.
I think as it relates to the rest of the Midwest and South operation spend is I would say stable on a year-over-year comparable basis in all markets relative to ourselves.
We are also stable except for in Biloxi where we have made obviously a calculated decision to actually reduce marketing expense and drive profitability versus the prior owners.
Our next question comes from Kevin Coyne with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up to David's question.
I know he asked about the total leverage covenant but I know the secured test I think Josh you said was 3.7 and currently the covenant's 4 in the quarter and steps down to 4.
Do -- any need to adjust that? And if you could also mention what's the minimum liquidity that you kind of feel comfortable running the business at.
Sure.
Thanks Kevin.
I would say given where we are right now the secured leverage ratio is really not a pressure point for the company going forward.
In fact I think we got plenty of cushion under there.
And from the perspective -- so we feel comfortable generally where our covenants are and feel comfortable that they won't present an issue for us going forward.
I would say that from a liquidity perspective I mean I think it's -- depending on what's going on in the business right now we have very limited capital expenditure programs other than really at IP.
We have a limited kind of maintenance program.
So liquidity doesn't need to be that significant given the performance of our business and the ability to generate free cash flow.
So that number could be $50 million to $100 million.
But generally longer term I think we want to have a $150 million to $200 million of availability around the company.
But again we have a lot of flexibility just generally in the business.
Research Division</strong> That's exclusive of Cage Cash? Yes.
Yes.
And that is...
Research Division</strong> Can you remind us.
.
.
I'm sorry Kevin.
Go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Can you remind us of Cage Cash requirements? Caged Cash I mean generally at quarter end is probably right around $100 million $105 million.
Obviously that will go up when Peninsula comes in and is reported on a consolidated basis.
But for our business I'd say just generally around $100 million to $105 million when you include IP.
And then depending on when the quarter ends sometimes it's a Friday sometimes it's a Saturday and that affects how much cash we have in the business from the perspective of the weekend.
But I think that's a good kind of proxy for you to think about it.
Research Division</strong> And just one question for Keith.
I guess with some of the other potential projects for Florida and California I know that we always ask the question about Borgata as we approach kind of MGM's deadline to sell their stake in March of next year.
Do these types of projects potentially lower your probability of buying that other stake or change your thinking in any way? Yes I would not connect those dots.
I think that those are completely separate decisions.
Obviously we enjoy our ownership position in Borgata and enjoy being the operator of that.
And as I've said a number of times if it were to come our way at the right price and it was financially attractive we would certainly take a look at it.
And we still keep our options open to do that so none of these other development opportunities foreclose that possibility.
Our next question comes from David Hargreaves with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the Wilton project.
I wanted to get a sense for where you guys contemplate locating that project and how big you would expect it to be.
Well the tribe in Rancheria itself once again are about 30 miles southeast of Sacramento and that is the presumed location of a project.
And in terms of size and scale and scope it's really way too early.
We're just in the beginnings of this in terms of working through the permitting process environmental impact statements and designing and developing a project.
So it's just premature to get into any of those other details.
Research Division</strong> On their web page I think they indicated they have something 38 acres.
That's not gaming-entitled land currently? It is not.
Once again there has not been land taken into trust for purposes of gaming at this point.
But we don't see that as an issue.
We're highly confident that that will get approved.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Josh Hirsberg for any closing remarks.
Thanks Amy.
To the extent you have any follow-up questions please feel free to reach out to the company.
And we appreciate you -- your participation in the call today.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's event.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and good morning.
Welcome to the Boyd Gaming Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please also note that today's event is being recorded.
Now I'd like to turn the conference call over to your moderator Mr.
Josh Hirsberg Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer.
Sir please go ahead.
Thank you Jamie.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me on the call this morning are Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Paul Chakmak our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Our comments today will include statements relating to our estimated future results and other market business and property trends that are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of today's date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those noted in our earnings release our periodic reports and our other filings with the SEC.
During our call today we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
For a complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the Investors section of our website at boydgaming.com.
We do not provide a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures due to our inability to project special charges and certain expenses.
Finally as a reminder today's call is being webcast live on our website at boydgaming.com and will be available for replay on the Investor Relations section of our website shortly after the completion of this call.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Keith Smith our President and CEO.
Keith? Thanks Josh and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for our third quarter earnings call.
Before I begin my comments on our third quarter results I want to take a moment to touch on the effects of the storm earlier this week.
Boyd Gaming has thousands of team members who live and work in the New Jersey area.
Their safety and well-being is our primary concern and our thoughts are with them and their families.
A number of our board -- team members stayed on-site during the storm to monitor the situation and keep the building secure and I am especially grateful for their efforts.
We also know that many of you listening to this call have personally been impacted by Sandy.
Given everything you're dealing with we appreciate the time you've taken to join us this morning.
Regarding the Borgata itself it incurred only minor damage as a result of the storm and we are prepared to reopen the property as soon as we receive approval to do so from the New Jersey regulators.
We don't know how long that process will take but we will keep you posted.
Now let's look at our third quarter results.
Once again strength was evident in our Midwest and South region which posted its eighth consecutive quarter of EBITDA growth.
This is currently the healthiest region of the domestic gaming industry and the most robust part of our business.
While we saw solid results across the region we were especially pleased by the continued strong performance of the IP which delivered its largest year-over-year EBITDA improvement since we acquired it a year ago.
The IP's performance demonstrates our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and to unlock value from them.
In the past our Midwest and South region has accounted for about 1/3 of our total EBITDA.
But this region is emerging as the most substantial contributor to our business.
When you consider the solid growth at our properties in this region over the last several years our purchase of the IP and our pending acquisition of Peninsula Gaming more than 2/3 of our total wholly-owned EBITDA will be generated by our properties in the Midwest and South.
Upon completion of the Peninsula transaction we will have added 6 properties in just over a year generating approximately $250 million in additional EBITDA annually.
So this is an extraordinary pace of growth by any measure and it reflects a deliberate strategic decision to acquire assets in the geographic area of our business that is delivering the strongest performance.
Moving to Atlantic City.
The regional environment remains competitive.
Weakness was concentrated in our Table Games business where both volume and hold fell year-over-year.
This accounted for almost the entire EBITDA shortfall.
Still there were encouraging signs as our Slot and Non-gaming business showed growth.
Borgata remains the undisputed market leader and we expect it will be Atlantic City's premier destination resort for years to come.
In Downtown Las Vegas we returned to growth and continue to enjoy a commanding share of the market.
As we discussed on our last call we resumed strategic marketing programs to drive business from our Hawaiian guests and saw immediate benefits.
Finally the Las Vegas Locals business remains extremely competitive.
As we indicated in our last call business began to slow in May and June and that trend continued into the third quarter due primarily to softness in business from casual players.
We're continuing to enhance and refine our marketing strategies in an effort to attract a greater share of this market.
Paul will discuss these efforts more fully in a few minutes.
Looking beyond the current quarter we have a number of key strategic initiatives that give us confidence in our prospects for the long-term.
First is the pending acquisition of Peninsula.
We've already secured approvals from Iowa and Louisiana.
Kansas regulators are scheduled to consider [ph] the transaction the week of November 12.
And subject to the receipt of final regulatory approvals we expect to complete this transaction in the fourth quarter.
The Peninsula acquisition will add 5 new properties to Boyd Gaming bringing our portfolio to 22 properties nationwide and gives us our first locations in Iowa and Kansas.
As you know Peninsula has announced the third quarter results.
Their total net revenues increased 55% to $130 million while consolidated adjusted EBITDA increased 86% to $47 million.
These results were in line with our expectations.
As we complete this transformative acquisition our top priority will be to seamlessly integrate these new properties into our business and remain diligent in controlling costs.
We expect this transaction to be deleveraging and accretive to earnings within the first year.
Next as discussed in our last call we have a number of longer-term growth opportunities we're working on.
First is our agreement to develop a casino entertainment property at the site of the BB&amp;T Center in Sunrise Florida should legislation be enacted to make it feasible.
Second is our partnership with the Wilton Rancheria Tribe in California where we are moving ahead with plans to develop a casino entertainment facility.
And finally we are in a strong position to compete in Internet gaming thanks to our partnership with bwin.party.
While we continue to believe that a federal approach is the best solution we are prepared to compete on the state-by-state basis.
We received an interactive gaming license from Nevada last month and we will continue to prepare for opportunities to offer intrastate online gaming elsewhere in the country.
In addition to these growth opportunities we've also begun to actively seek potential buyers for our Dania Jai Alai property.
JPMorgan and Union Gaming have been retained to assist us in this process.
To summarize we have a number of compelling opportunities to enhance shareholder value in both the short-term and long-term.
And we will continue our focus on paying down debt and strengthening our balance sheet.
Thank you for your time today.
I'd like to now turn the call over to Paul who will review our operations.
Paul? Thanks Keith.
Hello everybody.
Mixed trends we saw in first and the second quarter continued into the third.
While we saw declines in our Las Vegas Locals business and at the Borgata results are more encouraging in Downtown Las Vegas and the Midwest and South.
A couple of unusual items had a significant impact on comparisons for the quarter.
First we estimate that business disruptions in late August and early September from Hurricane Isaac reduced this year's EBITDA by about $3 million.
And second a property tax adjustment had a positive impact of $3.3 million in the third quarter of last year.
Taken together these 2 issues accounted for a $6 million swing in EBITDA year-over-year.
If you factor out these unusual items EBITDA would have been up more than 6% in our wholly-owned business in the third quarter.
Now let's start with a review of the Las Vegas Locals region.
On our last call we reported that results slowed significantly in May and June.
That trend appears to have bottomed out in July as shortfalls in August and September became less severe.
We're encouraged that our best customers continue to respond favorably to our industry-leading technological innovations including B Connected Online B Connected Mobile and B Connected Social.
These products received national and international recognition for their innovation and ease-of-use.
In fact B Connected Online received a gold award for Best Hospitality and Leisure website at this year's International Business Awards while B Connected Mobile took silver in the Travel App category finishing only behind AT&amp;T.
As Keith indicated we are continuing our efforts to grow business from casual players.
Penny denomination games are popular with these guests and are one of the few segments of the Locals market to show growth in recent months.
So we've recently taken steps to ensure we are well-positioned in this area and are nearing completion of the rollout of some 1 500 new penny themes across our Southern Nevada properties.
Starting today we've begun to aggressively promote these new games.
While we believe this initiative will be attractive to slot players video poker will remain an essential part of our business especially among our core players.
We will continue to offer our guests what we believe is the most competitive video poker product in Las Vegas.
Now let's move to Downtown Las Vegas.
As expected we saw growth resume in our Downtown business segment in the third quarter and we anticipate this positive trend will continue in the fourth.
As we discussed on our last call in the second quarter we  resumed certain marketing activities directed at our Hawaiian customer base.
We saw the positive results of those programs in the third quarter as they drove growth in our Downtown segment.
We also benefited from higher revenues at our Hawaiian charter service.
As you'll recall during the second quarter we reduced our Hawaii flight schedule from 5 flights a week to 4.
Our planes are now running almost full and we have grown revenue per seat by about 12% without reducing customer traffic from Hawaii.
We're also encouraged by continued renaissance of Downtown Las Vegas.
What's good for Downtown is good for Boyd Gaming where we have 20% of the rooms and control more than 30% of the gaming market.
Now let's move to the Midwest and South which continues to be the strongest segment of our business.
There were encouraging developments throughout the region.
Delta Downs set an all-time third quarter EBITDA record.
Treasure Chest grew market share during the quarter by nearly 1 full percentage point.
And Blue Chip has been able to consistently grow its share during the past year.
The star of the quarter was the IP which generated 35% EBITDA growth despite the impact of hurricane Isaac.
This is our strongest quarterly performance at the IP since we acquired the property last October.
During the quarter the IP recorded a 490 basis-point improvement in EBITDA margins.
We are managing that property much more efficiently without compromising the great customer service from which the IP is known.
The IP also benefited from the full integration of B Connected.
This program allows us to market the IP more strategically and efficiently and will help drive cross-property visitation.
As Keith noted earlier we are on the verge of completing our next acquisition.
As we prepare to close on this transaction we remain encouraged by Peninsula's continued strong performance.
And their flagship property the Kansas Star is expanding.
A new 150-room hotel opened earlier this week and the permanent casino will open in mid-December a month ahead of schedule.
This will add more than 400 slot machines and 13 table games bringing the casino's total to more than 1 800 slots and 45 tables.
In addition the facility will feature several new restaurants including a buffet steakhouse and sports bar.
Finally let's touch briefly on Borgata.
The property reported significant declines in both revenue and EBITDA during the quarter.
This was almost entirely due to declines in our table games.
Total [ph] decline by 215 basis points year-over-year accounting for about 2/3 of the property's revenue shortfall.
And 11% reduction in table game volume was responsible for the remainder of the revenue decline.
In spite of these challenges we are encouraged by strength elsewhere in the business.
Slot revenue grew slightly year-over-year.
Non-gaming revenue was up as well due to the strength in our entertainment and hotel business.
In fact hotel revenues were up 3% on slightly higher occupancy.
Borgata remains a dominant property in Atlantic City.
In the third quarter we controlled 18% of the Atlantic City slot market 24% of the table game business and more than half of the market's poker business.
And we saw record attendance at this year's Borgata Poker Open.
During the quarter our gross gaming revenue exceeded that of our closest competitor by $53 million.
And in the 12-month period ended June 30 roughly half of the total EBITDA generated in Atlantic City was at the Borgata.
The fact remains the Borgata is in the strongest position of any operator in Atlantic City and we believe it will maintain its position as the leading resort in the market for years to come.
So to recap.
In the Locals region business from our core customers remained solid and we are focusing on generating profitable revenue growth from casual players.
In Atlantic City Borgata's contending with significantly heightened competition especially in the table game segment.
We remain encouraged by strength elsewhere in the business and we are confident Borgata will maintain its position as the leading resort in the market for years to come.
In Downtown Las Vegas changes to our marketing programs and our charter operations paid off in the third quarter and we expect growth to continue in the fourth.
And we remain quite encouraged by the continued strength of our Midwest and South business as we saw solid performance throughout the region.
We're especially pleased by the results of the IP and we look forward to adding the Peninsula properties to our company later this quarter.
With the addition of these properties we expect that our properties in the Midwest and South will account for more than 2/3 of our wholly-owned EBITDA.
Thank you for your time today and now let's turn it over to Josh.
Thanks Paul.
Starting briefly with the Peninsula acquisition.
In August we completed all of the necessary financing to consummate this transaction.
We raised an $825 million term loan a $50 million revolving credit facility and $350 million in senior notes.
The interest expense associated with part of this financing is included in our interest expense and has been removed from the adjusted earnings per share calculation.
This adjustment is shown in the table in our earnings release and represents $3.6 million.
Our total debt balance was unchanged from the second quarter at approximately $2.8 billion.
This balance includes our borrowing of $200 million for the Peninsula equity contribution.
Of this debt balance $1.4 billion was outstanding under our credit facility providing $300 million of incremental availability.
Our cash balance at the end of the quarter including the $200 million Peninsula equity contribution which is currently held in cash pending the closing of the acquisition was $322 million.
From a financial covenant perspective as calculated under the terms of our credit agreement secured leverage was 3.84x compared to a covenant of 4.25x and total leverage was 7.35x versus a covenant of 7.5x.
Borgata's debt balance was $805 million at quarter's end of which $14 million was outstanding under their $75 million credit facility.
Their cash balance at the end of the quarter was $32 million.
Moving to the income statement.
Corporate expense excluding share based compensation expense was $9.1 million in the quarter compared to $9.6 million last year in the quarter.
Our depreciation expense including $4.7 million associated with IP was approximately $34 million compared to $31 million in last year's quarter while Borgata's depreciation expense was $16 million compared to $15 million last year.
Preopening expense in the quarter was essentially even with prior year at $4.3 million.
Excluding the impact of Las Vegas energy and the interest I mentioned earlier associated with the Peninsula financing our interest expense was $47 million or $13 million higher than last year as a result of new financings completed at higher rates and larger debt balances associated with the Peninsula equity contribution.
Borgata's interest expense was $21 million about even with prior year.
Our capital expenditures in the quarter were approximately $15 million while at Borgata they were $4 million.
In terms of guidance this quarter we will only focus on our wholly-owned business as a result of uncertainties at Borgata related to this week's storm.
We expect wholly-owned EBITDA after the deduction for corporate expense to be in the range of $70 million to $75 million.
Operator that concludes our remarks and we're now ready for any questions from participants on the call.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Shaun Kelley from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask first of all about kind of the core operations in Atlantic City.
Obviously I think versus your -- the guidance that you provided which was $47 million to $49 million for the third quarter obviously $33 million is a significant shortfall.
So just wondering what was different if you could walk us through substantially what was different than your expectations outside of the table games hold? I mean clearly Revel's having an impact there.
And I guess the question is what are you guys kind of in process of doing to begin to mitigate that? It's Keith.
Let me see if I can't start to answer that question on Atlantic City.
As you said and as we indicated in our comments that almost the entire shortfall in EBITDA when you look year-over-year was related to the table games area both between hold and volume most of it being hold but some of it being volume.
The volume that we saw move away from us was generally at the lower end.
Customers going to trial Revel not unexpected.
And then frankly there was some high-end play that wasn't in the market this year.
We had some -- Borgata has a significant amount of high-end play.
It was in the market last year and just wasn't in the market this year.
So we missed out on some of that.
But we're quite pleased with our slot revenue and our non-gaming business as once again they continue to grow and so those are positive signs.
Revel spent a lot of marketing dollars they were very aggressive in buying business and trying to gain trial and gain some traction.
We increased our promotional dollars slightly.
People get some of our slot promotional credits they're up slightly year-over-year but not substantially and not compared to what the rest of the market's doing.
We continue to focus on our core customers in our database to make sure they continue visit us.
We continue to look at the cost structure of that property and focus on ways we can manage that as efficiently as possible kind of given where the business is today.
So I think we have a very holistic approach and the property continues to perform very well.
I wouldn't read the significant decline in table games this quarter as kind of the new norm.
Once again it was mostly related to hold.
And if you look at the first 6 months of the year hold was fairly normal at the Borgata.
So Q3 hold clearly was an anomaly.
Research Division</strong> And then Keith I know it's sensitive right now just given that a lot of the focus is on the safety of the employees and the operations around the casino.
But could you just give us your best sense of kind of how we should think about the 4Q impact at the Borgata in terms of just maybe what some scenarios would be around when the property can reopen? The deductible or either the kind of the numbers on the insurance side and just kind of how we should think about it? Sure.
I'll tell you as much as I can or as much as I know.
Once again the property received pretty minor damage some missing windows no real water in the building.
Borgata's from an elevation standpoint built up a little higher and so the damage was relatively minor.
We kept power the entire time.
And so physically the building is able to reopen from a physical standpoint.
The issue has to do with the city and the state.
There's a travel ban in Atlantic City right now.
A lot of it has to do with the fact that there are no streetlights or traffic lights that are working right now.
And as I understand it kind of until the ban is lifted and until traffic lights and those types of services can be restored we probably can't reopen.
We have no estimate as to what that will be or when that will be.
And so it's tough to estimate kind of what that impact will be which is why we didn't provide guidance on the Borgata side on this call where we normally would.
With respect to insurance once again I think you want to think of insurance in 2 buckets.
One's property damage and the other is business interruption.
On the property damage side once again relatively minor damage probably will not meet the deductible because it wasn't significant.
On the business interruption side we clearly have coverage.
It's a matter of waiting to assess what the final damage is if you will given how long we'll be closed and how long will it take for business to get back to normal levels.
So it's a little tough to anticipate the size of that claim and what it may be.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate all that color.
And like I said I think the most important thing is that people are safe.
So last question for me would just be on the central region.
Clearly that's the highlight and where you guys are focused more.
But if we strip out the IP it seems to us that same-store revenues were down a notch and EBITDA was actually down possibly double-digit.
And I was aware from the comments that there may have been a property tax adjustment.
I'm not sure if that changed some of the difference year-on-year but that should have probably been the guidance.
Just wondering kind of what are you guys are seeing on the core business across those properties excluding the IP? Is there any heightened competition or anything that be might be hurting the margins there? I think -- it's Paul Shaun.
There's a couple of questions there.
I think your point about the insurance -- the property tax credit it happened the same quarter last year is completely fair and we obviously knew about that when we were providing guidance in the earlier quarter.
With that said we obviously didn't know Hurricane Isaac was going to hit and hadn't contemplated that and that was $3 million of the $6 million that kind of we identified that wasn't part of the thought process when we provided guidance before.
Still a little bit below the low end of the range of $77 million but not too far off at around $74 million.
As it relates to the business more broadly and generally it's pretty obviously diversified groups.
I think when you look at a number of the properties I think I highlighted 3 or 4 of them in my comments were doing quite well.
I mean unfortunately the hurricane hit in the properties and the areas of the country where we are doing the best.
Others are generally holding their own.
I mean we know that in certain markets like Tunica Mississippi and Shreveport Louisiana there is a significant amount of competition both within the specific geographic market as well as within neighboring states.
But I've got to tell you I feel awfully good as to where we perform in those markets relative to our competitors that post those results.
And you can see it in the revenue numbers that are published especially in Louisiana as it relates to Sam's Town Shreveport.
Our next question comes from Felicia Hendrix from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Paul wanted to thank you for the color regarding the cadence of the business trends in the Las Vegas Locals market.
However the 5% year-over-year decline was a lot more than what we were looking for.
You did say it bottomed in July.
So I'm wondering if your guidance assumes more of maybe a low single-digit decline in revenues in the fourth quarter? Well I think yes I did say that.
That it bottomed in July.
I think we are cautiously optimistic about where the Las Vegas market is going whether it's in our business off the strip or at some of our competitors have announced their strip results.
It's tough out here in the West and the expectation on growth in the market overall I think has been practically muted by what we've been going through over the last few quarters.
If you go back and look we saw some very good signs in the first quarter.
But those trends certainly were not sustained in the second or the third.
With that said it's an important part of our business.
A lot of our customers from throughout the country come out here and we continue to try to expand the impact of B Connected on our properties feeding them but the challenge remains.
And from a practical standpoint we're very cautious about the direction that we give all of you on all the ultimate kind of long-term recovery of this market.
Research Division</strong> Wondering if you could further discuss your decision to target the low-denomination slot player? And if you could just elaborate more on what you meant when you said you were rolling out 1 500 new penny themes? Well what I said is what I meant.
We are going to and have over the last couple of weeks greatly expanded our penny denomination product at all of our properties in Southern Nevada all our major properties in Southern Nevada including the 4 Las Vegas Locals as well as 3 in Downtown.
As it relates to where the results are we obviously as a company can't impact the direction of growth or decline in the Las Vegas market.
It's much much bigger than we are.
That's just been the facts.
At the same time we know where the strengths in the market are.
And I think if you look at where there is growth in this market it is in the penny denomination area.
It has been for the last couple of quarters.
And in fact the manufacturers have focused many of their new and best and frankly games that are most entertaining in the penny denomination area.
Some of our competitors jumped on that earlier because frankly they had been out of the capital spending business for a few years.
And I think that certainly probably helped their business overall.
And it was just time for us albeit capital dollars are precious to have a heightened focus on what is really the strongest individual segment which accounts for an awful lot of coin in and an awful lot of gaming revenue and to expand and in fact promote our properties in a very direct way around the penny denomination gains.
So if you pick up a copy of the Review-Journal this morning you'll see a full-page ad about our Penny Lane promotion focused on our Las Vegas Locals business with amongst those 4 properties over 1 000 new game themes out right now.
And you'll see an awful lot of that over the course of the month of November.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful and then actually a good segue on my last question.
We're talking about promotion and you said you would aggressively promote.
I'm assuming that you continue to focus on promoting profitably? Well I think that goes without saying.
We've been I think conservative in our approach to promotion and spending dollars.
And I think we also have to be practical about what is going on in the market.
And to say that promotion in Las Vegas is heightened is a fact.
Everybody is competing for -- in a market that has had very very low growth levels.
But we're here to make money at what we do but there are different avenues we can take.
And again you'll be seeing a lot of those over the course of the month of November.
It might be a little different for Boyd Gaming but we're here to make a difference and make a change and attack the market that's there.
Our next question comes from Steven Kent from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you just talk a little bit about the IP Casino? It looks like the EBITDA margins are decelerating and continue to decelerate.
I know some of that might be Hurricane Isaac in the third quarter.
But even in the first to second second to third it's starting to move the wrong direction.
I just wanted to understand what's going on there and how that reverses in this fourth quarter and maybe into the first and second next year? Well I mean there certainly is seasonality in that market overall.
So I guess if you look at it sequentially which I think is what you're doing you could say there is some deceleration quarter-over-quarter in overall margin.
Now in fairness the Biloxi market is a very very competitive market and we went into that market with our eyes very much wide open.
Now also in fairness we lost a few days of closure at IP in the third quarter but practically speaking it really impacted us for at least 3 weekends.
So that also has an impact on margins as revenues just didn't come back the next day when we opened our doors.
With that said the EBITDA at IP is up rather dramatically on a year-over-year basis on lower revenue which was very much part of spending dollars in the right place in a very competitive market.
And I think everybody here and certainly it goes out to everybody at IP has done I think a really a phenomenal job in immediately meeting our expectations of what we could do there from a profitability standpoint.
And for that matter I think delivering on the promise that we told you with some speculation from the street that we wouldn't be able to deliver on a very very good acquisition that immediately was accretive to the stock price.
Research Division</strong> If you can still hear me just one other question.
Just CapEx and broadly in any of the markets and will there be incremental? I think I saw an article on Echelon that you may need to spend some money to spruce that up a little bit.
This is Keith.
Regarding CapEx we're kind of spending at what is in today's world a fairly normal level wouldn't expect anything -- any abnormal capital spending.
We have announced or did announce that we'll be wrapping the Echelon property and sprucing up some landscaping.
It's to the tune of a couple of million dollars so it's nothing significant.
That work will take place first part of the year first couple of months of the year.
But when you think about CapEx nothing significant.
Our next question comes from Kevin Coyne from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just one for Josh.
I note that you mentioned that total leverage is at 7 and reduced [ph] about 3 5 and it looks like the covenant's stepping down in the fourth quarter.
Are you going to have to go back to the banks to get some relief there? And if not is there another potential cure there? We've actually been talking to our largest lenders for really since the beginning of the year.
We obviously were aware of the step-downs that are occurring in the fourth quarter as well as starting to occur a little bit more aggressively in next year as well and beyond.
I would say those conversations and those lenders have been very supportive of us in those -- the context of that conversation as well as just more broadly around the direction of the company.
So been in conversations with those guys.
They're supportive of what we want to try to do with respect to the amendment and so we'll roll that out at some point in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just turning to Borgata.
Obviously with the poor hold numbers I was just wondering if you can give us some color on is it just a couple of players that are really impacting hold? Or is it more broad-based and a dozen big players having an impact? And is it the same players that are impacting month-to-month? Or is it different players? This is Keith.
It's kind of -- the hold at Borgata really is related to a handful of players that played lucky this quarter.
Once again if you look at the first 6 months of the year the Borgata had a fairly normal hold percentage.
And this quarter was just some handful of players getting the best or playing luckier than the house if you will.
So nothing that we would expect to continue into the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one final one on Borgata.
The tunnel from Atlantic City Expressway over to the property I know we had some problems with tunnels up in the Manhattan area.
Was there any flooding or blockage of that tunnel? I cannot specifically speak to that issue whether or not there was water in that tunnel or whether there was any other damage to the tunnel.
I don't have any specific information regarding that Kevin sorry.
Our next question comes from Dennis Farrell from Wells Fargo.
A couple questions regarding the Borgata.
One could you actually provide what the deductible is for business interruption insurance? And then also is it fair to say that the table hold impact was about $11 million for the quarter? Dennis this is Keith.
I'll let Josh talk about the insurance matter.
But yes you're right.
With respect to the table hold number.
That's correct about $11 million.
And Dennis our business interruption deductible is $1 million.
And then in regards to moving away from Borgata just towards the Peninsula acquisition.
Obviously over time that could actually be almost double the amount of EBITDA you're doing in the Las Vegas Locals market.
And so just since it's such a big part of your business going forward what do you see as a synergy amount or a targeted synergy for that acquisition? Dennis this is Keith again.
As we've talked about this acquisition I think we've talked about the fact it is somewhat different than the IP acquisition that this is a very well-run company with very high margins.
And the first thing we look to do is assimilate it seamlessly into the company and to continue to run it as profitably at it has been run in the past.
There clearly are synergies in the form of purchasing where we maybe have a little more purchasing power because we're a larger company and a few other things.
But we have not talked about or floated a number like we did with the IP with respect to synergies and we won't be doing that.
Once again this is a very well-run company well-run organization.
We just want to continue to maintain it at these high levels and then improve it where we can.
Okay.
And then in regards to the locals market I mean I've noticed that some other operators have announced FTE reductions on the strip.
And I was just wondering is that a continued concern for that business segment? And do you see that kind of persisting within the next 6 to 9 months? It's Paul.
On the FTE side we obviously took measures really at this point years ago in adjusting FTEs for the business levels.
And at this point in time we really don't see any further opportunity of any significance to do that.
It is important from a differentiating factor to make sure we have and can deliver on the best customer service possible in this market.
We believe that's one of the key reasons why people come to our properties and I think is a key driver in why on the higher-end of our database we have seen continued growth and very positive growth there.
The whole direction of our business in the Locals again is to focus on the casual player who have a lot of different kind of issues that they're dealing with and -- but we know they're out there.
They're a very large part of the market overall.
And we want to take care of the folks that are loyal to our brands and obviously make sure we have the right product mix that goes along with the service quality that we have to appeal to that broader base as well.
Okay.
I was actually referring to like the larger-strip operators cutting back just in terms of unemployment in the city itself.
Is that -- have you seen a change in -- I mean unemployment seems to have bottomed and then it's kind of picking back up again I'm wondering if that's an issue which is causing some of the revenue declines? I think frankly as we look at jobs in the market we really haven't seen that in any of the statistical data and really don't necessarily find at least right now though it's hard to make a one-for-one correlation that that impact was there.
So we'll see how it plays out over the rest of the quarter.
Our next question comes from Susan Berliner with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions for you guys again going back to AC.
I guess can you talk about what's going on with the competition? Was the tables mostly from Revel? Or are you seeing Harrah's or Golden Nugget or Pennsylvania casinos ramping up as well? Susan this is Keith.
With respect to kind of table games activity and the promotional environment around that certainly Revel was extremely aggressive in the quarter.
Once again they're to trying to gain traction we saw some of the low-end lower end of our customer database go and visit and trial that as they took advantage of some offers.
Pennsylvania continues to get more aggressive.
They certainly haven't stopped.
And once again Golden Nugget's remodel is new to the market.
When you look year-over-year and they've done a good job.
We've seen some customers over there.
So I think it's probably a little bit of everything but we focus more on Revel a little bit on Nugget and Pennsylvania.
I don't necessarily see the other competitors doing anything unusual with respect to attracting table game activity.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of I guess promotions going forward should we assume that it's going to stay at this elevated level for some time? I wish I knew the answer to that.
We're certainly being cautious and making sure that we understand what's going on in the market kind of on a day-to-day week-to-week basis.
And we are speaking to our customers as frequently as we can and putting the right offers in front of them.
I imagine if I had to make a guess that it will continue to be fairly promotionally aggressive in the Atlantic City market.
Research Division</strong> And my last question just I guess with regards to AC.
Is there any I guess silver lining to it with the state declared an emergency more workers having to come in.
You guys obviously have experience in the South.
How should we think about that going forward? Susan I really not sure.
I think we're in such in a unique situation and it's so early here that kind of what the overall impact to Atlantic City is.
And if there is ultimately some uptick in the business as a result of this is really hard to tell.
I think we're in kind of uncharted territory and it's so early that probably best served not to go down that path.
Our next question comes from Joseph Greff from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Paul you mentioned earlier that the Las Vegas Locals market bottomed in July.
I was just hoping if you could just talk about did you see promotions start to ease or abate in July? Or was that different than sort of what you're talking about from a volume or revenue perspective? Joe it's Paul.
I was really more specifically referring to the revenue side.
I wouldn't say that promotions have abated.
I think they're at very much kind of the same state they were in through the summer.
What we have seen is spend per visitor in the Las Vegas Locals segment flatten out.
And that was a positive sign because we were seeing directionally that in a decline albeit a modest decline but in a decline.
And so we've seen that flatten out.
And the focus on everything we're doing on the penny side in the Locals business is not really specifically targeted necessarily at spend per customer but also at frequency.
And I think that's kind of a key component where we have opportunities.
Research Division</strong> And I'm sorry if you mentioned this and I missed it but going back to Borgata how much is it costing you a day in operating expenses while it's closed? We don't have that number right now Joe.
It's just too early.
Our next question comes from John Maxwell from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of final things for me.
Just the way I understand the IP flow-through you had this quarter was '11 affected by any weather or was this purely the pickup the flow-through you saw was due to the operating efficiencies and the plans you put in place when you acquired the property? No I think if your reference to 11 is -- lapped the prior year.
No I don't think there was any weather impact that I can recall in the prior-year period.
The EBITDA margin improvements and ultimately the flow-through is really sort of more of the same that we've been delivering on the last couple of quarters on the operating efficiency side and the synergy side that we had identified when we purchased the property and have now really fully implemented.
So this was really the fourth quarter if you will of ownership.
We acquired the property on October 4 of 2011.
So not surprisingly we're fully implemented and we can see those type of cost savings over the prior period.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then Paul just following up a little bit more on operations overall.
I would imagine you've spent a lot more time with the Peninsula guys now.
Is there anything that you've been able to look at what they're doing that you guys want to be able to implement going forward? Or just wondering if there's anything we can see going forward as -- once this transaction closes on the Boyd facilities? I mean the businesses are obviously fairly similar to what we have throughout the Midwest and South.
I would say obviously the benefit for them and frankly for us is for the most part they operate in markets where they are either really kind of the only player or one of only a very few.
And that has led to obviously some very positive results that they've been able to post over the recent -- for the recent past.
I think there are opportunities going both ways for sharing of different ideas whether to Keith's point on the purchasing side.
I mean they're just going to clearly benefit from being part of a bigger company even buying the same products.
I mean that's just how it kind of works.
I think on the marketing side they do some things that are very very interesting that will be opportunities for us.
And I think likewise there are things that we do from a marketing perspective especially with the Las Vegas base that will very much target and enhance what they do for their existing customer base.
So I think there are some neat things there.
We will be cautious in changing the business.
Because we don't want to certainly disrupt a good thing at the same time over the course of the next 12 months or so I think there's kind of great opportunities on both sides to share best practices.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just finally for me and I know -- again it's early and Keith I appreciate everything on Borgata but I was down in the South Jersey area yesterday not as far down as Atlantic City but given all the disruptions down there are you getting the sense from management there that you're going to have any staffing issues once you do reopen? We have had no such indication no such reports.
But once again it's very early.
Our team members are spread out throughout the South Jersey area or maybe even points farther away.
But it depends on the disruption that they may be going through right now the recovery efforts that they may be going through.
And so it's just very early to tell.
But we have no reports at this point.
Our next question comes from Brian Egger from Topeka Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just wondered if you have any thoughts about the lawsuit between the sports leagues in the state of New Jersey with respect to sports wagering? And also if you have any more general thoughts longer-term about the importance of that type of product offering to the Borgata? Brian this is Keith.
We really don't have probably any comments with respect to the ongoing litigation there and what may ultimately happen.
We certainly run a very good and productive and profitable sports business here in Nevada something we've done for years it's a very complicated business but we do a very good job at running it and making a few dollars on it here.
And if it were to be offered in Atlantic City or in New Jersey generally if it were to be deemed legal and acceptable we'd certainly want to take advantage of it in Atlantic City.
But right now we're just kind of on the sidelines waiting to see what happens.
Research Division</strong> My question is more in the direction of -- if it's important to the -- it kind of is a traffic driver or something that might be helpful to the market given some of the challenges there.
But I -- comments are understood.
This comes from Kevin Coyne from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just one question on the business interruption insurance.
I know there's the $1 million deductible but can you give us any sense? Do they look back just 1 year or the average of 3 years in terms of trying to figure out how much the claim could be? And also if your doors are "open" and yet people still cannot either get to the property or just choose to not come the property can you still put a claim in for below-average performance? Or do your doors have to be shut to put that claim in? Let me take a shot at that just more from an operation standpoint and then Josh can address it from kind of a straight insurance perspective.
We have been through unfortunately a lot of these business interruption claims.
Most of them have been as a result of hurricanes in the South as opposed to hurricanes in the North.
But it is a negotiation it's really what it comes down to.
And the impact of business interruption on the business is not necessarily just specific to the time that you are closed.
It also includes the time frankly leading up to the storm where people obviously don't want to be out and the time after the storm.
And there's a lot of different data points that everybody considers on both sides as it relates to what is the economic impact and frankly what can you do to abate that economic impact.
But overall it is just not straightforward.
So you shouldn't simply think about Borgata's EBITDA was x and so that will be covered.
It is a long negotiation on lots and lots of different points that frankly usually takes an extended period of time to ultimately resolve.
Yes Kevin.
The only thing I would say is I think Paul just answered your question.
And at this time I'm showing no further questions.
I'd like to turn the call back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thanks again for the joining the call today.
We appreciate it.
And should you have any other further questions please feel free to reach out to the company directly.
Thanks.
And with that we'll conclude today's conference call.
We do thank you for attending.
You may now disconnect your telephone lines.
Good day and welcome to the Boyd Gaming Fourth Quarter Full Year Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to John Hirsberg -- sorry about that Josh Hirsberg Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Seth.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me on the call this morning are Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Paul Chakmak our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Our comments today will include statements relating to our estimated future results and other market business and property trends that are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of today's date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those noted in our earnings release our periodic reports and our other filings with the SEC.
During our call today we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
For a complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the Investors section of our website at boydgaming.com.
We do not provide a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures due to our inability to project special charges and certain expenses.
Finally as a reminder today's conference call is also being webcast live on our website at boydgaming.com and will be available for replay on the Investor Relations section of our website shortly after the completion of this call.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer.
Keith? Thanks Josh and good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us for this morning's call.
I'd like to start this morning with a few comments on our announcement earlier today that we entered into a definitive agreement to sell the Echelon site on the Las Vegas Trip to the Genting Group for $350 million in cash.
First this transaction was actually completed earlier this morning and all funds have been received.
Second the sale of the Echelon site is yet another important step in the comprehensive strategy focused on achieving our number 1 priority which is strengthening our balance sheet and improving our financial position.
Whether it's through repaying debt making strategic acquisitions or realizing improvements to our core business we're keenly focused on this goal.
As you look back over the last 18 months we have made a number of significant steps toward this goal.
One was our acquisition of the IP a market-leading property we purchased a little more than one year ago at a multiple of less than 7x its current LTM EBITDA.
Another was the acquisition of Peninsula Gaming last November which further diversified our operations and greatly expanded our ability to generate free cash flow.
And just last week we announced an agreement to sell Dania Jai Alai in South Florida for $65.5 million in cash further strengthening our balance sheet.
The sale of the Echelon site like these previous transactions has compelling benefits for our company and was made only after a thoughtful analysis of our options for the site.
This analysis took into account our current business strategy the current and future direction of business on the Las Vegas Strip anticipated return on investment and our overall financial position.
In the end we concluded that developing a large-scale project on the Strip from the ground up was not consistent with our current strategy.
As a result we made the decision to sell this site and significantly strengthened our financial position.
With the sale of the Echelon site we will realize $157 million in net proceeds or approximately $1.80 per share in equity value value that is included in our current market valuation.
We intend to use the proceeds from this sale to repay debt.
In addition to the net proceeds from this sale there are other benefits as well.
With this sale we will eliminate approximately $16 million in annual recurring costs associated with this site.
That represents an additional $1.60 per share in equity value.
We also expect to realize substantial long-term tax benefits against future taxable income.
As noted in our press release we will record a onetime noncash charge of $994 million in the fourth quarter related to Echelon.
This charge will create a tax loss carryforward of approximately $750 million.
Of course acquisitions and divestitures represent only 1 component of our overall strategy to strengthen the financial position of the company.
Improvements to our core business are also key to achieving our goal.
We remain committed to constant innovation and improvement of our core business with the aim of generating both revenue and EBITDA growth.
As customers have once again grown cautious with their spending in recent months now more than ever it is essential that we continue to improve and refresh the product we offer our customers.
And during the fourth quarter we made notable work progress on this front.
On our last call we outlined the new approach we're taking in the Las Vegas Locals market.
We refined our marketing and advertising programs and made significant changes on our casino floor and we began to see the benefits of this in the fourth quarter as visitation strengthened month-by-month across our Locals business.
In 2013 we will continue looking for ways to improve our core business not just in Nevada but across our portfolio.
Our success as a company begins with delivering an exceptional experience to every customer and on challenging ourselves to keep improving what we do best.
Finally we believe our portfolio of future growth opportunities will further strengthen our financial position in the long term.
Our online gaming strategy is starting to pay off as states like Nevada and New Jersey have begun to establish the framework for Internet gaming.
We're in the early stages of this exciting opportunity so we believe we have the brands the partnerships and the infrastructure to become a major player in this market.
We're optimistic that online gaming will be a compelling long-term growth opportunity for our company.
Additionally our agreements with the Wilton Rancheria Tribe in Northern California and Sunrise Sports Entertainment in South Florida could provide significant growth opportunities for our company in the next several years as well.
As you look back over the last year it is clear we have made significant progress in moving our company forward.
We have an experienced and skilled management team focused on controlling costs and improving the core business.
We have employees dedicated to providing first-class service to our guests and we have high-quality assets.
We have the right strategy in place we are executing on it and I am confident that it will deliver compelling long-term results for our shareholders.
Thank you for your time this morning.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Paul who will review our operating results.
Paul? Thanks Keith.
Hello everybody.
As other companies in our industry have already reported gaming customers nationwide pulled back in the fourth quarter due largely to economic uncertainties surrounding the elections and the fiscal cliff.
While we actively worked to mitigate the impacts of these trends on our business they did affect our operations.
These trends continued into the first quarter.
Our customers are now adapting to the impact of higher payroll taxes that took effect January 1.
Continued uncertainty from Washington over federal spending and tax is affecting consumer behavior as well.
In the Las Vegas Locals segment these issues were by compounded unusually low hold at our sports books as players enjoyed a lucky run this fall.
This low hold accounted for a significant portion of the decline in our Locals business.
However we saw reasons for guarded optimism in this region later in the quarter as business trends started to improve.
The declines we saw in October and November moderated in December and that positive trend has continued into the first quarter.
The targeted marketing and advertising initiatives we discussed in our last call are starting to pay off driving new visitation to our properties.
Once on property casual gamers are responding positively to the new product we rolled out in our casino floors.
We introduced about 1 000 new penny themes across our Las Vegas Locals properties in recent months concentrated in high-profile areas called Penny Lane.
This initiative helped drive increased slot play and visitation among casual players in the fourth quarter.
We also saw significant uptick in new B Connected memberships as new customers signed up for cards to qualify for our promotions.
At the same time the promotional environment in the Locals market appears to be stabilizing as our competitors are generally adopting a more rational marketing approach.
Finally we're encouraged by signs of continued improvement in the southern Nevada economy.
The unemployment rate has been declining in recent months and home prices rose substantially throughout 2012.
Las Vegas is still far from the boom years but the trend is in the right direction and we believe we will see modest improvement throughout this business in 2013.
Now let's review Downtown Las Vegas where business from our core operations was flat year-over-year.
On a segment basis revenue declined due to the recent reduction of our Hawaiian flight schedule from 5 flights per week to 4.
And on the EBITDA side results were impacted by several one-time charges.
Having said this we were pleased with the performance at the operating level.
The long-term direction of this business remains positive.
Visitation remains solid especially among our Hawaiian customer base and we gained 250 basis points in market share from the third quarter to the fourth further expanding our leading position in the Downtown market.
We believe those positive trends will continue.
Our Hawaiian business remains strong and we will benefit from the ongoing redevelopment of Downtown which continues to draw new business new visitors and new residents into the area.
Now let's move to our regional properties including our existing Midwest and South segment and the Peninsula properties.
As you know consumers have been more cautious in recent months and our properties are not exempt from this trend.
While business from our core players remain solid we saw declines in both visitation and spending among casual players.
In addition we saw growing competitive pressure in certain markets.
The Peninsula segment did report substantial growth in the fourth quarter driven entirely by the addition of a full quarter of operation from Kansas Star.
On a same-store basis EBITDA declined modestly year-over-year in the Peninsula business segment due to softness in casual play.
Despite these challenges there were some bright spots.
A number of properties grew market share during the quarter including Delta Downs Paradise and Blue Chip.
Despite a highly competitive market Blue Chip has grown its share of the market for 10 of the last 12 months and it was the only property in northern Indiana to show year-over-year gaming revenue growth in 2012.
In fact the market would've declined by 3% year-over-year without Blue Chip.
To the South Delta Downs continues to be one of our strongest performers.
The property grew EBITDA by more than 10% in 2012 setting all-time annual records for both EBITDA and coin-in.
And in Kansas the Kansas Star opened its hotel permanent casino and 5 new food and beverage outlets in mid-December.
Thanks to hard work and great planning the transition from the temporary to permanent casino was flawless with very little disruption to our business.
With the permanent casino open the property is now on track to open a 4 200-seat arena by midyear.
Looking ahead to the first quarter Kansas Star will be comparing to a strong introductory period when it was able to generate robust visitation with very little marketing spend.
That is obviously not sustainable and customer reinvestment has increased to more realistic levels.
Winter weather has presented more of a challenge in the first quarter of 2013 as well.
But we remain quite optimistic about Kansas Star's long-term potential and we expect that Kansas Star's margins will remain the highest in the Peninsula portfolio and project that the property will generate about $100 million in annual EBITDA going forward.
Finally I'll conclude with Borgata which was severely impacted by super storm Sandy and its aftermath.
We began seeing an impact from Sandy a week before landfall and we were forced to close from October 28 to November 2.
Shortly after we reopened business was once again disrupted by a second nor'easter.
The impact of the closure and lost business was substantial.
We recorded more than 5 000 room night cancellations in October and November [ph] and saw business levels decline sharply in both months.
We did see some stabilization in December and the property has been successful in rebooking much of its lost group business.
However it's difficult for us to estimate how this year's summer season will be impacted.
Many of our summer customers stay in vacation homes along the Jersey shore.
While many shore homes around Atlantic City sustained significant damage there was less damage in communities to the south.
And we understand the booking pace for available shore homes has been brisk.
The availability of nearby vacation homes will have an impact on our second and third quarter results but is impossible to say how significant that will be at this time.
Despite these challenges Borgata continues to maintain its long-standing leadership role in Atlantic City growing its market share by 160 basis points in the fourth quarter and achieving a 23% market share in January.
So to recap we encountered some headwinds in consumer spending in the fourth quarter and based on what we've seen so far in the first quarter customers have had to adapt to the impact of higher payroll taxes that took effect January 1.
Our regional operations saw the most significant year-over-year impact as they faced more challenging comparisons.
That trend's likely to continue especially in markets facing heightened competition.
These issues are affecting Las Vegas as well but we are encouraged by the trends we are seeing in our Locals and Downtown business.
Our refocused marketing strategy is starting to pay off in our Locals business and Downtown should continue to benefit from a vibrant economy in Hawaii.
In Atlantic City we remain the market's dominant operator and expect to benefit in the coming months as the area recovers from Sandy.
We cannot control external factors like the economy or the competitive environment.
But we can control how well we execute our operations and our core business and we remain keenly focused on finding new innovative and cost-effective ways to drive new visitation to our properties.
Thanks for your time today and now I'll turn it over to Josh.
Thanks Paul.
During the quarter we completed bank amendments for each of Boyd and Borgata's credit facilities and provided additional flexibility with respect to covenants.
We appreciate the continued support we have received from our lenders as we have managed through this challenging economic environment as well as the more recent impacts of super storm Sandy.
As you know during the quarter we closed the Peninsula transaction.
Our financial statements reflect Peninsula's property results for the stub [ph] period since November 20 the date of the transaction closing.
We have provided this additional information GAAP income statements for the full quarter and year in the back of our earnings release.
The preliminary purchase price accounting for this acquisition has been completed and the impacts are reflected primarily in 2 places: Depreciation and amortization; and interest expense.
I will point out the impacts as we discuss these line items in more detail in a few minutes.
Additionally we are required to present Peninsula going forward consistently with our reporting methods.
One change you will note relates to corporate expense.
Peninsula will now allocate a portion of their corporate expense to property operations.
Previously Peninsula did not allocate any of their corporate overhead.
We expect about $3 million to be allocated to the Peninsula properties in 2013 that would have previously shown up at Peninsula as corporate expense.
Now let's move to the balance sheet and then I will discuss items from the income statement and provide guidance.
Our total debt balance at the end of the year was approximately $4 billion which includes $1.2 billion related to Peninsula.
$1.5 billion was outstanding through our credit facility providing approximately $250 million of incremental availability.
The cash balance at year end was $158 million of which $32 million was related to Peninsula.
From a financial covenant perspective as calculated under the terms of our credit agreement secured leverage was approximately 3.89x compared to a covenant of 4.25x.
In total leverage was approximately 7.35x versus a covenant of 7.75x.
The transactions to dispose of the Echelon site and Dania will result in our leverage improving by over half a turn this year.
Borgata's debt balance was $811 million at year-end of which $20 million was outstanding under their $60 million credit facility.
Their cash balance at the end of the quarter was $34 million.
Moving to the income statement.
Corporate expense excluding share-based compensation expense was $10.2 million in the quarter compared to $10.4 million last year in the quarter.
This corporate expense number includes $375 000 for Peninsula.
For 2013 we expect corporate expense to be approximately $46 million which includes about $4.5 million for Peninsula.
Peninsula's 2013 corporate expense reflects a reduction of about $4.5 million from 2012 levels.
Depreciation expense in the quarter was $63.2 million an increase of about $13 million over last year due to the inclusion of Peninsula.
Peninsula's depreciation expense is greater than its historical run rate due to purchase price accounting affect.
As a result Peninsula's depreciation expense in 2013 is going to be higher than you probably expected at approximately $90 million.
$46 million of this is related to purchase price accounting.
Boyd's depreciation expense should be similar to 2012 levels at about $137 million and Borgata's should be around $60 million.
Excluding the impact of Las Vegas Energy our interest expense was $63 million which includes $10 million for the stub period that we own Peninsula.
Borgata's interest expense was $21 million about $700 000 below prior year.
For 2013 Boyd's interest expense including about $86 million for Peninsula should run about $285 million.
This may be higher than you were expecting as this estimate also includes about $15 million related to purchase price accounting for the Peninsula seller note.
Borgata's interest expense should be about $84 million.
Our capital expenditures in the quarter were approximately $17 million.
In 2013 we are budgeting a little over $100 million of CapEx which we will modify depending on how the business environment develops this year.
At Peninsula we expect to spend about $15 million on maintenance and about $11 million related to the continued expansion of the Kansas property.
Borgata's capital expenditure should approximate $20 million.
In the fourth quarter we incurred write-downs of approximately $1.1 billion related to our land on the Strip a land that the company had acquired for potential developments and charges related to our annual impairment testing.
These were all noncash charges that are not included in the calculation of adjusted earnings per share.
In terms of guidance in addition to the information I have provided above we'll provide separate quarterly EBITDA guidance for Boyd and Borgata.
Boyd's guidance will include Peninsula.
We will provide adjusted EPS for the consolidated business which includes our wholly-owned segment Peninsula and Borgata.
So with that we expect wholly-owned EBITDA after the deduction for corporate expense to be in the range of $125 million to $130 million.
We expect Borgata to generate EBITDA of $25 million to $27 million in the first quarter.
Assuming a 35% tax rate and with this range of EBITDA guidance adjusted EPS for the first quarter is expected to range from a loss of $0.05 to a loss of $0.10.
This guidance includes $15 million of purchase price adjustments that represent about $0.11 per share.
Operator that concludes our remarks and we're now ready for any questions from participants on the call.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Shaun Kelley with Bank of America.
It's actually Matt in for Shaun today.
I just wanted to start with Atlantic City real quick.
With all the recent news of the online gaming developments there I'm getting quite a few questions on market size and timing.
Do you mind commenting on your expectations for the market there and the timeline going forward and/or the ability to enter that market through a partnership with bwin or under the Borgata brand there? Sure Matt.
With respect to kind of timing where the market really is up to the regulators to decide that.
We know that they're anxious to get the process going and to get online gaming started in New Jersey.
Our job really's to be ready to launch a product once the regulators approve it and we will be ready.
We'll be leveraging up our relationship bwin to do that.
And so we look forward to the opportunity to participate there.
But I don't have an exact date for you because regulators haven't shared that with us.
With respect to market size I think it's been reported of being anywhere from $200 million to north of $1 billion in New Jersey.
We certainly with our brands and our partnership with bwin would expect to get more than our fair share of the market.
So we're excited about the opportunity and we look forward to it.
And then back on Kansas Star I was hoping you could revisit your expectation for Peninsula after 3 full months since the transaction closed and with the expansion fully opened now I was trying to get an idea of what you're seeing there if -- it slowed a bit or if it's more of a general consumer trends you've seen across the other regions.
Just trying to get an idea where you're head's at going forward.
I think as it relates to Kansas Star and maybe Peninsula more broadly I mean these certainly are impacted by the same issues we're kind of seen throughout the Midwest and South.
With that said the Kansas operation near Wichita is a very very strong business.
The expansion added a necessary component as they were part of the overall bid that Peninsula ultimately was successful in obtaining that license that are not efficient from the standpoint of EBITDA margin EBITDA generation necessarily.
And food and beverage outlets have a very different contribution for example than the gaming operation which opened very very successfully and very strong.
So we'll need to drive more revenue to achieve similar results.
And that's really the trend we're seeing.
Very very nice product but with that said a property that had already developed a very very strong following.
Alright the next question comes from Felicia Hendrix with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Wondering first if you could just give us the -- help us or quantify for us the impact that -- of the EBITDA from the sports book? I'm just trying to kind of parse that out from what the flow-through might have been from your new initiative.
Hey Felicia it's Paul.
I think as it relates to sports I think everybody in the fourth quarter talked about the kind of luck of the consumer and football in particular.
And if you look at the year-over-year comparison I think my comment was a substantial portion it was near 1/2 of the difference year-over-year in EBITDA.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then should we expect to see a pickup in flow-through from your initiatives? I mean does it -- should it ramp or are you kind of all implemented now? Well I think it'll ramp relative to the prior year comparison.
We are fully implemented in Nevada.
We think it gives us certainly opportunities outside of Nevada as well and we're kind of formulating those plans.
But whether you look at it from a year-over-year perspective we believe it's an important part of our marketing initiatives for 2013.
Research Division</strong> Yes clear.
I was kind of thinking obviously adjusting for any seasonality on a sequential basis but you answered my question there.
And then just with Echelon sold just wondering if we should think about any kind of long-term strategy you might have for Las Vegas Strip offering for your regional customers? Well right now our current strategy really is focused on the financial position of the company and shoring that up.
Long-term we certainly are committed in Las Vegas.
We have 2 large businesses here both in the Downtown area and the Las Vegas Locals market.
They have over 9 000 team members sharing the market.
So we're very committed to Las Vegas.
And longer-term we do see ourselves back on the Strip just in the current process in the current term it's not the right move for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just finally for Josh you guys you talked a little bit in your prepared remarks some of the things you've obviously -- you guys have done a lot to improve your balance sheet so far but just kind of going forward can help us think through some other things you might do to continue to reduce the debt other than just growing EBITDA? Yes sure.
Thanks Felicia.
I think we're not going to lay out the specific plans just like we would on a historical basis do that.
I think we continue to be very focused on improving the balance sheet we have a lot of initiatives that we are considering implementing over the near-term future that will accomplish that.
And so that's what we're going to really focus on and we'll let you guys know as we kind of accomplish those rather than lay them out today.
The next question comes from Joe Greff with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Paul you made some encouraging commentary about the trends in the Las Vegas Locals market.
And just to make sure I understood them correctly you're talking more about visitation and customer counts.
Can you talk about what you're seeing on a spend-per-visitor or spend-per-trip basis? And then I have a follow-up.
Sure.
Customer counts are up.
Spend per visitor is down.
And I think that ties back to really my opening comments about the economy broadly speaking.
Same exact trends we've seen in prior quarters the higher end of our database we refer to as emeralds and sapphires continues to do very well and more challenging as people with certainly less disposable income or less propensity to see a casino as a form of entertainment are impacted by kind of the broader economic issues.
Research Division</strong> And then it might be early but going back to the New Jersey online topic can you give us a sense of what you estimate the set up cost might be and then what might your proportionate share of those costs would be? Well in New Jersey the license will be held by Borgata and they will incur the cost.
We don't have a handle right now.
I guess we're not prepared to discuss kind of set up cost.
They will not be significant.
Most of the costs will come in the launch of that and the marketing of that product as opposed to the set up itself.
And so once again we're just preparing ourselves to be ready as soon as the regulators get everything approved and are ready to welcome us to offer a product.
Joe I would add to that just briefly and say that the setup that you may be thinking about really comes from the relationship with bwin.
They provide all of the technology and the "back of the house" infrastructure and then it becomes a marketing business after that.
Next question comes from David Farber with Crdit Suisse.
I got a couple of questions.
On the Peninsula acquisition I was just curious can you guys remind us the management fee structure you have with that entity? And then I have a couple of follow-ups.
Sure.
The management fee is structured as 2% of net revenues and 5% of EBITDA.
And did that come in the quarter post the closing just the partial quarter? Yes it's come since the day we closed the transaction.
You can actually see it on the financial statements in the elimination section of the deconsolidated income statement that shows the amount of the management fee.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then on the Echelon sale congratulations there.
I was just trying to get some understanding around the numbers you provided.
So you sold it for $350 million with net proceeds of $157 million.
Can you just sort of walk us through the math there that gets you to $157 million given how the LVE Energy entity works? That would be helpful for me.
And then I think I just have one other.
Sure.
There are a lot of components to it.
I think I'd break it down into basically -- I mean the biggest component is obviously LVE.
They will receive basically $187 million.
And then the remaining portion is just bits and pieces of transaction costs.
That as simple as it is.
Okay.
Maybe I'll follow-up with you off-line.
And then you mentioned there was $16 million of costs that are going to be eliminated.
Can you just sort of parse us through what of that $16 million shows up the cash flow statement and then maybe what shows up in the income statement? Well the $16 million was all recorded as preopening recurring preopening cost.
So they represented the storage cost security insurance property taxes things of that nature that we will no longer be required to cover owning that asset.
Okay.
So that sounds like all income statement.
The next question comes from Thomas Allen with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> On the Echelon sale how did you come up with the sale price? I think it was around $4 million per acre.
And were there other bidders? Sure.
Well look we're very excited by this sale and being able to monetize this as a non-core nonstrategic asset.
We think a lot of transactions -- sale price is always a process of negotiation and at the end of day we think it's a very fair price for the site allows us to deleverage pay down some debt and it's going to offload some recurring maintenance costs that we have on the site and focuses us on our number 1 goal of improving our balance sheet.
So overall we're very pleased with the transaction.
Research Division</strong> And then I think some other companies have been talking about how delays to tax refunds really impacted them January.
Are you saying -- I mean do you think you felt that impact and are you seeing any recovery now that refunds are coming back? I think tax refunds do definitely spur some spending by the consumer a little bit like found money.
Clearly they came in or started to come in much later this year and I think it does filter through to everyone in our business as well as frankly other areas like retail as those refund checks come in.
It is a positive and it was delayed.
It was not in January at all this year.
The next question comes from Kevin Coyne with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just one on the Borgata regarding business interruption insurance.
I was wondering if you could put an estimate around what you expect to receive and the timing of cash proceeds.
Sure Kevin.
As we all learned with respect to these hurricanes and storms these are very long complicated processes.
The reality is we just settled up in the fourth quarter of 2012 from the hurricane that struck that area in August of 2011.
So we're just in the beginning processes of assembling the data talking to the insurance companies and working through that.
We'd expect it will be probably into next year before anything happens.
It's once again a very long complicated process that we've all come to learn.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Regarding the sale of LVE Josh I know you mentioned that the $16 million of Echelon cost savings.
But I guess with LVE there was a $11 million annual projected fee.
Is that included in the $16 million or maybe you could give a little color as to whether that will be in other cost savings? Thanks for pointing that out Kevin.
That is part of the $16 million.
It's the biggest part of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the -- can you give a sense as to the sale of Dania what that will have on run rate EBITDA going forward so that we can normalize that out? Yes Dania was running at a loss of about $4 million per year so that will be eliminated.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And I know Josh you mentioned in the past that you wanted to perhaps address the near-dated sub notes in terms of refinancing.
Is that something we should expect in the near term? Might be a reasonable assumption.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a bigger picture.
With some recent announcements in addition to your Echelon project with MGM building the arena any sense you have as to when the Locals market will start seeing the benefit of these jobs that could potentially pick up? Is it something we could start to see in '13 or would there be more an inflection in '14? Well certainly a lot of positive news out there with respect to Las Vegas whether it's the sale of the Echelon site and a buyer who's going to start a project in the near-term and create thousands of construction jobs or whether it's MGM building an arena whether it's record visitation to Las Vegas in 2012 or the convention authority announcing a $2.5 billion project.
There's an awful lot going on that will all serve to strengthen the economy here and the strengthen the local market.
And so we're looking forward to that.
If those projects start in 2013 and we certainly hope that they do then I think we'll see an immediate benefit.
And if those projects start in '14 then the benefit will be delayed until '14 but there's an awful lot of positive momentum here in Las Vegas with projects I just talked about so we're excited.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And if I could just squeeze one more in on online gaming.
If MGM is able to get its license back in New Jersey how does it work? Is there only -- does Borgata only have 1 online license where you would collectively operate a website and share in the earnings of that? Or could you each individually operate a website? I'll listen to the answer.
I'm not exactly sure of your question Kevin but there could be multiple websites through that license would be the contemplation.
Yes Borgata will have the license.
As the operator of Borgata we will operate that product.
There could be multiple brands as part of that or multiple sites but it will be operated under the Borgata license and we will head that up.
So to the extent that MGM obviously owns 50% of Borgata and Borgata's the licensee and MGM participates in that site.
Next question comes from Lawrence Haverty with GAMCO.
Josh I'm just thinking what is the total of all your NOLs as you go forward? Well they could be quite large.
I believe the number related to Echelon is about $750 million.
We will also have a loss a tax loss related to Dania as well and I think that number is on the order of $60 million.
So those are obviously going to be the 2 big components of any tax loss going forward -- tax loss carryforwards going forward.
And were they all against operating EBITDA? Well yes in effect yes.
And then what's the average interest cost on the Borgata notes or the Borgata debt? Well about 1/2.
There's $800 million round numbers about $400 million at 9 1/2% and about $400 million 9 3/4%.
So I mean just casually looking at Borgata it's very very hard to see that there's a whole lot of equity value in the situation.
Do you contemplate perhaps a resolution of the partnership or now with the -- because I guess that is going into a trustee or something or other and now with MGM's licensing that's all stirred up the pot if you will? Well I guess our view would be that there is in fact equity value there and we would view that it's only enhanced going forward not only by the operations of the asset and the position of Borgata relative to the market in general but the opportunity with online gaming also further provides benefits to that asset.
So -- but absent that even the online benefit we would say that there's equity value there.
We believe there's equity value there and we have stated our view that we would be willing to buy the other 1/2 of Borgata had MGM had to sell it.
Now they're a great partner of ours and have the opportunity to potentially come back in as our partner and we welcome them in.
And so that for the long-term kind of positioning perspective of Borgata we continue to like its position in the market and our ownership of it and continue to be supportive of that asset.
So but currently their share is in a trusteeship or something or other? Yes.
Is there a clock ticking? I mean does the trustee have to act before perhaps MGM could recoup its license and then can MGM do something to get the thing back from the trustee? I'm just thoroughly confused.
I think we really need to ask those questions to MGM but their plan is to get relicensed and it's my understanding that any clock that was ticking has stopped while they go through that process.
The next question comes from John Maxwell with Jefferies.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Paul I was just wondering the estimates that you've kind of factored in for Borgata going forward obviously Revel didn't have -- seem to have any impact on you in '12 but any thoughts as to what you would think the -- if obviously they step up marketing now that they're going through a restructuring does that -- has that been factored into your thoughts on how Borgata will perform in '13? I would say that first up Revel opened in April and it absolutely had an impact on Borgata and the entire Atlantic City market.
It wasn't terribly successful in growing overall gaming revenue in the market but it certainly had an impact on taking away and impacting efficiencies that all the properties had.
Obviously as they go through their second early restructuring the first was during the construction phase they will come out of it and I'm sure that team there is a good team.
They found a lot of different ways to market that property.
They obviously have some challenges and they're not going to go away.
And we expect they will continue to be as competitive as they possibly can both before and after the restructuring.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just on the Delta Downs a little bit you had a nice pop there in 2012.
Was that anything specific to what you were doing there or do you just saw the overall growth because it does seem to be one of the outperformers this past year.
Well the team at Delta Downs is really an outstanding team and we were able to continue to ratchet up very very effective marketing strategy to drive gaming revenue.
And as you can see in the cost structures that we've developed in our properties when we can achieve some -- even to some extent modest gaming revenue growth it really flows through on the EBITDA side.
Now the south southern Louisiana in particular has been frankly the strongest market in the country and that is based on broader economic things that are happening in Texas and Louisiana are related to oil and gas and I think it is a foreshadowing of what an expectation can be on our business to the extent we can get some help from the macroeconomic issue around the country.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
Appreciate it.
And Josh I'm not sure if you are going to answer but in the press release you break out what IP provided for the 3 months of December of '11.
Do you have 2012 numbers that we can comp that to? No we don't John.
Sorry.
The next question comes from Dennis Farrell with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One in regards to Borgata can you could provide us an update on the property tax appeal and the potential outcomes there? And my second question is in regards to capital allocation of free cash flow the next couple of years what are your thoughts on debt pay down incremental acquisitions or greenfield opportunities? So regarding the property tax appeal on the Borgata I think the only thing I can really say is that it's going to trial in late March and we won't provide any commentary other than the fact it's going to trial in late March and we're hopeful of a positive outcome.
So we will see what happens when we go to trial.
With respect to I think capital allocation going forward over the next of several years I think you'll see us use our free cash flow in 2 main areas: One is maintenance capital and we usually provide some guidance on what we think maintenance capital is but beyond that it will be debt prepayment to continue to strengthen the financial position of the company.
I think acquisitions are probably a little further in the future as we once again continue to look to shore up our financial positions.
I think your last question about greenfield development probably is the furthest down that list given this current dynamics.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up.
In regards to some of the other players in Atlantic City I mean what has been the outcome of their property tax bills? The other players in Atlantic City I think have all settled with the city in some form or fashion and received substantial tax credits if you will or substantial reductions in their overall valuations.
We are certainly expecting or hopeful that we will receive something similar.
But once again this is going to trial in late March and it wouldn't be appropriate to comment given the fact that it's going to go to trial.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Josh Hirsberg for any closing remarks.
Thank you for participating in the call today.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to reach out to the company.
Have a good day.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Boyd Gaming First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Josh Hirsberg Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Amy.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me on the call this morning are Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Paul Chakmak our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Our comments today will include statements relating to our estimated future results and other market business and property trends that are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of today's date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those noted in our earnings release our periodic reports and our other filings with the SEC.
During our call today we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
For a complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the Investors section of our website at boydgaming.com.
We do not provide a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures due to our inability to project special charges and certain expenses.
Finally as a reminder today's conference call is also being webcast live on our website at boydgaming.com and will be available for replay on the Investor Relations section of our website shortly after the completion of this call.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Keith Smith our President and CEO.
Keith? Thanks Josh and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us this morning for our first quarter call.
Our results for the first quarter exceeded our expectations despite a host of external challenges during the quarter.
These challenges included the impact of a more typical winter in the Midwest a payroll tax increase in January and delays in the processing of income tax refunds all of which served to have an impact on our business in the quarter.
However a strong performance in the month of March helped offset the impact of these challenges.
Throughout our company we are taking the right steps to grow revenue improve margins and maximize EBITDA growth whether it is through innovative marketing programs improved product offerings or improvements to our operating margins.
This was clearly evident in our first quarter results.
More importantly we expect to see greater benefits from these initiatives as external challenges abate.
In our Las Vegas Locals business we were able to produce year-over-year growth and EBITDA for the first time in more than a year.
This was the result of a combination of new slot and marketing initiatives and a strong focus on operating margins.
This performance was a significant accomplishment for our entire team and we feel good about the overall direction of our Las Vegas Locals business.
In our Midwest and South region year-over-year comparisons were more difficult largely due to a more typical weather pattern this year as compared to the mild winter weather we saw last year.
While we did experience lower revenues in this region our focus on improving operating margins helped us mitigate the impact of EBITDA during the quarter.
At Atlantic City the Borgata team is making great progress recovering from the effects of Superstorm Sandy and ongoing competitive pressures throughout the Northeast.
Borgata remains the clear market leader and outperformed the competition in Atlantic City in every metric in the first quarter.
While the first quarter results exceeded our expectations the last several years have taught us to be cautious about reading too far into the future.
Previous recoveries have become uneven or lost steam due to unforeseen events.
But at this moment we are cautiously optimistic about the economic trends that started to form late in the quarter and the overall direction of our business.
Customers have started to adapt to higher taxes and the uncertainty from Washington.
Tax refunds began arriving in bank accounts and investment portfolios have grown as the stock market reaches all-time highs.
In Southern Nevada the unemployment rate has dipped below 10% and the pace of job growth has been accelerating running almost twice the national average in January and February.
The housing market in Southern Nevada continues to recover as well.
Prices for existing homes in Las Vegas are up more than 30% year-over-year and new home sales are rising as well.
That is helping rebuild the balance sheets and the confidence of local residents.
And there is more than $6 billion in new development either underway or on the drawing board on or near the Las Vegas Strip.
This is the highest level of construction activity we have seen since the Great Recession began and should provide further stimulus for the local economy for years to come.
Across the central part of the country economic conditions remain stable.
These markets recovered more quickly than Las Vegas and their unemployment rates are generally below the national average.
We are optimistic that conditions should remain relatively healthy in our Midwest and South markets in the months ahead.
And at Atlantic City's the recovery from Sandy appears to be strengthening as the market enters its historically busy summer season.
As we look back at the first quarter and what we accomplished it is clear that we are making significant progress toward our strategic goals of strengthening our balance sheet and improving our financial position.
In March we monetized the Echelon site and are on track to complete the sale of Dania Jai Alai in May.
Our focus on strengthening our core business through new and innovative marketing programs and improved operating margins is working.
And we are making good progress on the integration of the Peninsula properties into the Boyd Gaming portfolio and we are starting to realize the full benefits of this transformative transaction.
Looking ahead we are well-positioned to take advantage of several significant long-term growth opportunities including our agreements with the Wilton Rancheria Tribe in northern California and Sunrise Sports Entertainment in south Florida.
Both of these partnerships could provide significant growth opportunities to our company in the next several years.
We're also quite optimistic about the potential of the emerging domestic online gaming market.
We intend to be among the first that offer online gaming in the state of New Jersey and are confident that the Borgata brand will allow us to capture substantial share of this lucrative market.
We are evaluating the opportunity to offer online poker in Nevada as well and are determining the best way to enter what is shaping up to be a robust yet crowded market.
But New Jersey and Nevada are only the beginning.
Legislation to legalize online gaming has been introduced in several states including Illinois California Pennsylvania Massachusetts and New York and lawmakers in other states are considering it as well.
While it is still early we will be part of the process across the country.
If additional states move forward with the legalization and regulation of online gaming Boyd Gaming will look for ways to participate.
Online gaming is clearly a compelling opportunity to significantly grow and diversify our business.
We intend to seize that opportunity to the fullest.
Boyd Gaming is clearly heading in the right direction and I'm confident about our future.
Thank you for your time today and I would now like to turn the call over to Paul who will provide a little more detail on our operating results.
Paul? Thanks Keith hello everybody.
The trends we saw in the first quarter were consistent across our operations as weakness in January and February was offset by improvements in March.
This was the result of strengthening economic conditions in many of our markets as well as a focus on improving operating margins across our business.
We were especially encouraged by our Las Vegas Locals segment which posted year-over-year EBITDA growth for the first time in 5 quarters.
Several factors were at work.
First our themed slot initiatives and related marketing programs that we discussed on prior calls have been quite successful.
Our focus on improving operating margins paid off as well driving EBITDA growth in the segment.
We also benefited from the successful execution of several major events during the quarter.
At the Orleans Arena the top ranked team in the country played in the West Coast Conference basketball championship driving growth in business volumes associated with this tournament.
And we were quite successful in leveraging our sponsorship of the Las Vegas NASCAR race in March generating considerable visitation to our properties.
Looking ahead we are optimistic about our prospects in the second quarter which got off to a good start at The Orleans with a festival celebrating the American Country Music Awards.
This 3-day event drove tremendous customer traffic to The Orleans and garnered extensive national exposure for the property.
Now let's review Downtown Las Vegas.
While we saw nice improvement in March it was not enough to offset weakness in business levels.
We are diligently focused on improving our operating margins in this segment as well and we're successful in mitigating the impact of lower revenues on the EBITDA line.
The overall direction of our Downtown Las Vegas business remains encouraging.
We continue to enjoy a great relationship with our Hawaiian customers providing this business a solid foundation.
And we believe there is upside created by the redevelopment of Downtown Las Vegas.
As this transformation continues to accelerate it will further expand the pool of potential customers for our 3 Downtown properties.
And with 1/3 of the total market we stand to be one of the biggest beneficiaries of Downtown's continued revitalization.
Now let's move to our properties in the central part of the country.
As you may recall the Midwest enjoyed an unusually mild winter in 2012.
This year's winter was more typical creating difficult comparison throughout the region including at our new properties in Iowa and Kansas.
To the south our properties in the Gulf Coast were also comparing to particularly strong results in the year-ago quarter.
Despite this Delta Downs still managed to post an all-time record for monthly EBITDA in March.
And the Kansas Star generated solid revenue growth following the successful opening of a permanent casino and 5 new food and beverage outlets in December.
And while the properties operating margins are still the highest in our company they were impacted in the first quarter by higher expenses associated with these new amenities as well as increased marketing expense.
Marketing spend was unusually low during Kansas Star's introductory period in early 2012.
And this quarter's results reflect more realistic customer reinvestment levels.
We expect these trends to continue and visitation should grow further with the opening of our Arena capable of seating of over 6 000 guests.
As we've seen at The Orleans an arena this size can generate significant customer traffic and we look forward to opening its doors in late June.
This property continues to perform in line with our expectations and remains on track to generate about $100 million in EBITDA on an annual basis.
Finally I'll conclude with the Borgata.
As you know the entire Atlantic City market continues to be impacted by numerous factors including the ongoing recovery from Superstorm Sandy additional capacity from the opening of a new property last spring and competitive pressure from throughout the region.
While Borgata is not immune to these trends we continue to outperform the market at every category in the first quarter.
Borgata finished the first quarter with a 22% market share in net slot win up nearly 2 percentage points year-over-year.
We posted a 26% share in table drop an increase of more than 1.5 percentage points and we captured 51% of Atlantic City's poker revenue up more than 3 percentage points.
To put it in perspective our net slot win in the first quarter was 50% higher than our closest competitor and table drop was 70% greater than the #2 property.
Borgata is clearly maintaining its leading position in the market and we made good progress in the first quarter more than doubling property EBITDA from the fourth quarter of 2012.
So to recap we're pleased that the current direction of our business.
Across our operations we remain focused on improving margins and refining our product to meet customer expectations.
And we started to see the benefits late in the quarter.
Thank you for your time today and now I'll turn it back over to Josh.
Thanks Paul let's start with the balance sheet and then I will discuss items from the income statement and provide guidance.
Our total debt balance at the end of the quarter was approximately $4.1 billion which includes $1.2 billion related to Peninsula.
Our debt balances inclusive of Peninsula declined approximately $50 million from year end.
Given the balance outstanding under Boyd's credit facility we had approximately $280 million of incremental availability.
The cash balance at the end of the quarter was $322 million of which $30 million was related to Peninsula.
This balance includes the net proceeds from the Echelon sale.
After the end of the quarter a portion of this cash balance was used to redeem $150 million of the outstanding balance of our 6 3/4% sub notes due 2014.
From a financial covenant perspective secured leverage was 3.89x compared to a covenant of 4.5x and total leverage was 7x versus a covenant of 7.75x.
Borgata's debt balance was $805 million at quarter's end of which $14 million was outstanding under their $60 million credit facility.
Their cash balance at the end of the quarter was $36 million.
Moving to the income statement corporate expense excluding share-based compensation expense was $11.6 million in the quarter compared to $10.1 million last year.
The current year's corporate expense includes about $1.1 million for Peninsula.
Depreciation expense in the quarter was $70 million an increase of about $20 million over last year due to the inclusion of Peninsula.
Peninsula's depreciation expense in the quarter was approximately $22 million and Borgata's depreciation expense was about $16 million.
Excluding the impact of Las Vegas Energy our interest expense was approximately $93 million which includes $22 million for Peninsula and about $21 million for Borgata.
Interest expense should decline by about $2.5 million in the second quarter as a result of the April 6 redemption of $150 million of 6 3/4% sub notes that I mentioned earlier.
Our capital expenditures in the quarter were approximately $22 million including $6 million at Peninsula and $3 million at Borgata.
Now in terms of guidance we will provide EBITDA guidance for Boyd and Borgata with Boyd's guidance including Peninsula.
We will provide adjusted EPS guidance for the consolidated business which includes Borgata.
We expect wholly-owned EBITDA after the deduction for corporate expense to be in the range of $132 million to $137 million.
We expect Borgata to generate EBITDA of $27 million to $29 million in the second quarter.
Assuming a tax rate of 35% and with this range of EBITDA guidance adjusted EPS for the second quarter is expected to range from a loss of $0.02 per share to income of $0.03 per share.
Amy that concludes our remarks and we're now ready for any questions for participants.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Felicia Hendrix of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A few questions for you just on the Las Vegas Locals and on the revenue side.
The revenues were down year-over-year but the comps get easier throughout.
Keith you gave us some good details about what was going on on the macro side? So it sounds like -- and I just want to make sure that you're comfortable with this.
It sounds like you might expect this.
I mean obviously with the easier comps you could see revenue growth for the remainder of the year just based on the math of the comps.
But it also sounds like you're feeling more encouraged by what you're seeing from just the economic aspects of how the economy is affecting your customer base.
So I was just wondering if you could expand on that a bit more? Felicia it's Paul.
No I think your comments are fair in both rights.
I mean the magnitude of year-over-year quarterly decline on the net revenue side has continued to ease from a couple of quarters ago being down almost 5% to obviously -- to the results that we posted this quarter on the revenue line.
And I think a couple of things are at work.
To your point the comparables are getting easier.
Now to Keith's points as well there is the beginnings we think of some good broad-based recovery going on in Las Vegas as well.
Now we've seen this before and we have seen and actually posted in the first quarter of 2012 net revenue growth in this segment.
And so we're just a little bit hesitant to call it a trend after just a quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you said you're cautiously optimistic just thinking about it and you probably would appreciate it if we're all cautiously optimistic I would assume.
On the margin side seems like some of the EBITDA margins improvement in the Las Vegas Locals market was -- some of the improvement was due to initiatives some of the initiatives that in terms of increasing your flow-through but also to some of the events that you held in the quarter.
The second quarter sounds like you have some more events to talk about.
But what would you say the biggest driver to the EBITDA improvement was? Is it the benefit of your initiatives? Or is it just the benefit of having those events? Just trying to think about how to think of how to think about our margin forecast for the rest of the year.
Well I think when you look at it there are really 2 categories.
On the marketing side in the initiatives on the marketing side we just found good solid traction in those areas.
And obviously marketing expense is a big chunk of total operating expense in this business.
So to the extent we can work through programs that are just simply more effective and more valued by the consumer that's obviously very important to driving margin growth.
And the other piece of it overall in honesty is the other largest operating expense line and that's labor.
And how we staff how we still meet the expectations of our customers but be efficient and frugal and to be able to offer a stellar product at the same time to manage labor costs overall.
Research Division</strong> And that's obviously -- and you foresee that to be managed well for the rest of the year? I think we've continued to focus.
It's something that you never stop working on.
But I believe that we have the framework for those types of savings for the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just final question on Atlantic City.
Just wondering if any of you are willing to take a stab at what you think fair market size of online gaming is -- in Atlantic City will be in and how you're thinking about your share there? Felicia this is Keith.
We haven't gone out with our own estimate of what that is.
As you've read people are estimating it anywhere between $200 million and $1.2 billion in terms of market size.
We obviously think it's probably somewhere in between that but we haven't come out with an estimate of our own.
But are we looking forward to launching the business when all the rules are put together.
Our next question comes from Harry Curtis at Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the online.
In your press release you said that you're excited about your online strategy.
What can you share with us about your strategy? Well as I said in my comments we're -- we look forward to being one of the first to launch in New Jersey.
We think New Jersey with 8.8 million people within the state has great opportunities to have a very profitable business there.
So we're looking forward to that.
Nevada once again has legalized it and it's in process.
It will be a crowded market but we think a robust market.
We're trying to just make sure how we're going to enter that market.
And when you look around the country and you see a number of other states talking about legalizing it I think this is something that will be exciting and will be a real addition to our overall business plan as we look forward.
We haven't put out estimates.
We haven't put out profit estimates on it.
We're obviously -- have some we're just not sharing them publicly at this point but we think it's going to be a great addition to our land-based platform.
Research Division</strong> Broadly speaking do you have any sense of what impact it might have on the land-based business? Sure.
We firmly believe that there really is no or minimal impact to the land-based business.
It largely speaks to a different customer.
And we think at the end of the day it probably grows the pie.
It doesn't shrink the pie.
There are 2 examples that we currently have.
One is the growth of online poker a few years ago that reinvigorated land-based poker and you saw that take place.
I think the other thing that's happened here in Nevada where there's been some mobile sports betting that has come online in the last year and it has no detrimental effect to kind of the land-based or people coming into the building and sports betting.
And so the limited examples we have showed no impact to bricks and mortar casinos.
And that's really our belief that once again we'll grow the pie we won't shrink pie.
Research Division</strong> And I guess last question is you mentioned it was going to be a crowded market.
Do you expect it'll be limited to the bricks and mortar kind of company? Is there any way that some of the other existing sites that are established in other countries will have an opportunity to gain entrance into the market? Well in Nevada you do not have to be an existing bricks and mortar casino.
You just have to have a license.
You have to be licensed by the state of Nevada through the regulatory authorities here.
And so that's why I say it will likely be a crowded market because you will have others who will look to enter the market in Nevada besides the traditional casino operators that are here in the state.
Research Division</strong> And how about New Jersey? New Jersey the license runs to the existing casino operators.
So it is the existing -- people operating in Atlantic City existing operators who are in Atlantic City who have the benefit of running or opening up a business.
Our next question comes from Thomas Allen at Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Two questions on Borgata.
The first the Maryland properties started introducing table games a few weeks ago.
Have you felt any impact there? And then secondly any update on how we should think about the market over the summer and the residual impact of Sandy? How much of your play comes from people with either permanent or second residences nearby that you think may have been destroyed? And could you see any benefit from rebuilding checks like we saw with Katrina? Sure.
With respect to the table games in Maryland it's too early to really have any sort of a sense or bearing on how that may be impacting the markets.
And so it's once again just a little too early to say.
With respect to the summer season it clearly is always the busiest season in Atlantic City.
There is plenty of business in the summer season.
We don't know the overall impact of last year's storm and how it will impact residence of people who don't have homes there.
As you indicated we certainly have seen in Louisiana and in southern Mississippi when a hurricane comes through and then insurance checks come through there's additional money in the market.
We are hopeful that that is the case.
We haven't seen that start to show up in the casinos yet.
But we're expecting in a busy summer and we're expecting good results out of the Borgata over that busy summer season.
Research Division</strong> And then just to clarify some things on the Locals market.
First last quarter you talked about spend per visitor was still down has that changed at all? And then can you give us any sense of kind of what your exit rate was for revenue growth of the markets or kind of what your March revenue growth was? I think on a spend per visitor basis Thomas we're running about flat.
So sort of an improvement over the declines we have seen prior and that sort of ties into sort of the revenue numbers that we reported today.
As it relates to March revenues in particular for the market your comment about exit rate I wasn't quite clear with that.
Research Division</strong> Just what March revenue growth was.
I mean we see market revenue growth for January and February.
And obviously we don't know what it was for March.
So any color on what March year-over-year growth was? I think certainly it was obviously as we talk about improved to some extent dramatically over January and February.
And from the numbers that we have seen relatively flat year-over-year.
The next question comes from Shaun Kelley at Bank of America.
I was hoping you guys could talk a little bit more about the online gaming side.
Any idea what the capital commitments will be there what will be required in advance and just the timing of those investments? Sure this is Keith.
Given our relationship with bwin we'll be providing most of the software if you will.
I think capital commitments really are more along the marketing side and the launch of the business itself.
And so we're in the process of kind of putting that together.
We're not at a point where we're going to discuss those at this point.
But they really -- think of it as launching or marketing costs and not hard cost from -- you typically think of capital.
I'd say largely those costs actually come out of the cash flows being generated by the online opportunity.
So there's very little kind of upfront spending in advance.
It's largely as Keith was mentioning kind of recurring as the revenues are coming in.
Perfect.
I appreciate that.
Sorry I was having trouble with my headset.
It's actually Matt in for Shaun.
Just a follow-up I was hoping you'd talk a little bit about the promotional environment in Atlantic City and what change you saw during the quarter with the Revel's filing and then your expectations for kind of the competitive environment moving forward? There really wasn't I would say a significant change in the competitive environment in Atlantic City in the quarter.
If you look at some of the numbers that Atlantic City releases you probably saw some pull back on promotional credits.
We don't expect to see much change in the market with Revel coming out of bankruptcy and Revel has been in the market for a year and the impact of that property is largely baked into the market.
Borgata had a very successful year after Revel came into the market.
We continue to kind of expand our market-leading position there and put distance between ourselves and the #2 competitor.
So I don't expect a lot to change in the marketplace as it relates to Borgata.
The next question comes from Joe Greff JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Question for you on the Las Vegas Locals market you talked about the first quarter EBITDA performance certainly being enhanced by the slot initiatives and better marketing.
Can you just talk about the promotional environment there and whether that was a big factor and if that could help us understand that in terms of how much were promotional allowances and marketing dollars down year-over-year? I think overall the trends Joe that we reported in last quarter's call about the Las Vegas Locals market as it relates to promotion generally was that they had to some extent I would call it normalized.
All the majors were focused obviously on the best kind of cost-benefit relationship they had and we had not seen an acceleration of promotions generally in the market.
And I would say that trend simply continued in the first quarter.
And it frankly has continued into April as well.
Certainly promotional activity but nothing really out of the ordinary overall.
Research Division</strong> Excellent great.
And then another question maybe difficult to answer in the past you've been sort of against looking at raising equity as a means to reduce your leverage.
With the stock up meaningfully here more recently are you as steadfast in not issuing equity as a means to reduce your leverage? Or has your thought process changed in that regard? So if we look at the -- we look at equity as one tool that we have at our disposal.
We're kind of quite confident with the current business plan that we have and how we're executing against that plan.
Monetizing some non-core assets as we've done recently and focus on improving our core operations.
We frankly think the most efficient way to continue to de-lever and strengthen our financial position is through improved operations and so that's our #1 focus right now.
And we know equity is available to us if we determine it's the right thing to do.
But right now we will focus in other areas.
The next question comes from Carlo Santarelli at Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Quickly on the Locals business when you think about an environment where you could start seeing some top line growth consistently for the first time in a while how are you guys thinking about obviously OpEx and the ability to flow that through to the bottom line? I guess asked another way do you feel comfortable with the current OpEx structure and do you believe a lot of that the costs that you've extracted out of the business over the last few years are permanent? Well I think the operating expense structure we've put into place has come with a lot of hard work from a lot of different people.
And it is poised to show significant bottom line performance with revenue growth.
Our challenge has been obviously seeing that revenue growth in the various markets not just for the Las Vegas Locals business and all of our competitors been faced with the same struggle.
But we are in a very good spot for a broader base recovery.
And in the meantime we'll take things into our own hands and focus obviously on key marketing programs and look at share as well.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
I may have missed this at some point here but with respect to the AC or Borgata specifically some of the tax rebates that I know some of your peers got throughout last year where does that stand for you guys right now as it pertains to Borgata? Sure I think you're referring to the property tax issue? Research Division</strong> Correct.
So our property tax appeal is currently in court.
We are currently having a trial and we'll await the outcome of that.
We certainly feel confident in our position and confident that we will receive a credit or a rebate on our property taxes.
But it's a trial we'll just have to see how it plays out.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And Keith is there -- do you have guys parameters around the number? I believe it trumps [ph] somewhere north of $50 million.
Have you guys outlined anything within a range? No we actually have not provided any specific range of outcomes for what that might be.
Once again it's -- because it is a trial we're being quite silent on it.
The next question comes from Barry Jonas at Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
Do you have anything to comment about the potential sale leasebacks or asset sales to the Pen REIT once the conversion happens early next year? Probably no real comments at this point.
I mean if I suppose if the Pen REIT came forward and wanted to pay us REIT multiples 12x or better we'd probably take a look at it.
But that hasn't happened and we'll just wait and see.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one point of clarification I think you said that bwin would be a technology provider in New Jersey.
But can you maybe just explain the role of the JV with bwin and MGM in New Jersey? Sure.
The license in New Jersey will run to the license to operate an Internet gaming operation will run to the gaming licensee.
In this case it's an entity called MDDC [ph] which owns a license in New Jersey which is owned by the partnership Boyd Gaming and MGM or the trustee at this point.
And so that is the MC that owns the license and will launch the business.
What brands that get launched underneath that are -- we're kind of reviewing that right now in terms of what that will look like with the public facing part of that website will look like.
But that's the licensee so that's the structure.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just lastly we've heard a range of estimates in terms of when online gaming would commence in New Jersey.
Do you have a sense when that might be? We really don't.
We've heard the same thing you've probably heard.
We're paying attention and we just expect to be among the first to open once it's legal.
The next question comes from Justin Sebastiano at Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> So as far as Paul in your earlier comments you mentioned that you have more streamlined labor levels.
Can you talk a little bit about that? Is that more reduction-enforced? Did you just take take away some shifts? Did you put maybe some food and beverage outlets start [ph] at certain times of the week? Can you be a little bit more specific around that? Well I think I guess it comes in various different very different areas and how you staff generally.
And keep in mind we have over 20 000 team members.
Obviously a good chunk of those 7 000 or so 8 000 are in Nevada.
And it's really just managing the workflow as we talk about in sort of our key values working smart and continuing obviously to provide a level of customer service that we believe helps differentiate us from obviously a very crowded field of competitors.
So look its not unusual during certain parts of the year to change hours of restaurants and things like that in this town.
And certainly we use all of those tools.
And it's something that as I said really never stops in order to manage overall labor cost in each of the properties.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just so I'm clear sounds like you're talking about you -- based on volume you may -- you put some maybe offering a start [ph] or shut down some shifts as opposed to actually having a reduction in force for hundreds of employees.
Is that fair? That is correct.
It's management rather than some overall broad-based change in direction in Las Vegas.
Our next question comes from David Bain at Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] First is a first follow up on the timing for online.
I mean looking at Nevada the framework that has been in place since late '11 with [indiscernible].
The regulators in New Jersey are pretty pretty stringent as far as we understand.
Just wondering in your conversations with them or folks that are involved do you think that they're New Jersey timeline can a sort of outpace what Nevada is having? So is something different there that makes it more likely to happen sooner rather than later? Yes I probably don't have a comment on how quickly Nevada will get through the process.
Nevada has issued licenses to the various operators.
What Nevada hasn't done yet is license the software providers and that's what kind of the process is next in Nevada.
And how quickly they get through that how quickly they're able to move through that and how quickly they are ready to open an online business is up to them.
I guess I don't feel it's my place to comment on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And kind of a follow up also on I think what Harry was asking.
The Borgata brand do you think that resonates out of New Jersey to either Nevada or other jurisdictions if they're legalized online? And just trying to handicap look at brands and databases like some of the big destination locations versus some of the more regional ones.
How do you look at taking share versus other potential providers? Well right now we're focused on New Jersey and we're focused on the Borgata brand in New Jersey.
It has obviously great penetration in New Jersey.
As Paul indicated that we captured more than 50% of the poker market share in Atlantic City.
And so kind of the penetration of the Borgata brand is significant in New Jersey as the market-leading brand.
We really haven't looked at it outside of New Jersey.
So...
The next question comes from John Maxwell at Jefferies.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Most have been asked but just Paul maybe with the new permanent property Kansas Star have you widened the reach of where customers are coming from there? Or does the permanent property just give people more amenities to -- with your existing customers you've already attracted? Well I mean Kansas Star is obviously very much a local market casino.
If you just think of the geography of Wichita and other major cities obviously you have very strong population concentration in the Wichita metropolitan area.
And then certainly fades out as you go beyond that until really you hit other competitive markets whether it's Kansas City in one direction Oklahoma City Tulsa all of which have casino products in those markets.
Also fair to say that Kansas Star today has 150 hotel rooms.
In total we'll be increasing that to 300 in the next 18 months or so per our agreement with the state and our hotel operator.
But it is you should think of it very much as a local market casino just like our local market casinos around the country really.
And with regard to what Paul said well I don't think it's expanded its reach geographically.
Within Wichita we now have amenities that will attract players that maybe weren't attracted to the temporary facility because you didn't have food facilities you didn't have other things going on.
And so the expanding facilities offer a wider array of products that I think will attract a broader group of customers.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
And Josh did you put forth a budget for 2013 CapEx at this point? We did in the last call we basically said that for -- and I'm doing this from memory so it's always [indiscernible] years.
But basically I recall that Boyd's CapEx would be about $100 million plus or minus a little bit depending on how the business ultimately played out.
Borgata's was around $20 million and then Peninsula would have had kind of $15 million of recurring maintenance capital and I think something for the Arena conversion on the order of $8 million or $9 million or so like that.
I just don't remember that number off the top of my head.
[Operator Instructions] And the last question will be from Kevin Coyne at Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I know you don't break out property level detail.
But I was just wondering with the IP performance during the quarter could you give us any subjective thoughts in terms of how that's performing versus your expectations? And is it safe to assume it's outperforming the segment results of 6% decline? Well I think with the IP and the market overall obviously we had reported individual property results for the 4 quarters following the acquisition.
As you saw we made a number of adjustments there including -- that had a very positive and meaningful effect on EBITDA.
We -- per kind of how we show numbers we won't be breaking out IP in the future.
I would tell you that the Biloxi market is certainly as we knew going in a very very very competitive market.
State of Mississippi issues numbers by sort of region within the state and you have those handy.
And the IP for us has been much more of an efficiency story than a revenue growth story.
And we think as a result of that it is -- had a meaningful contribution to stock price and equity valuation because we bought it at the right price and very much improved margins and EBITDA contribution at that property and expect that to continue.
Research Division</strong> Thank you that's helpful.
Maybe just turning to the Locals market you detailed a lot of the big projects going on or that are going to come over the next few years.
I was just wondering do you sense -- like when we look at -- if we try to let's say time the inflection point or the acceleration out of the trough of the Las Vegas Locals market do you get the sense that people will wait until they're actually let's say on-site working and getting cash flow and a paycheck to ultimately spend at the casino? Or if they know they're going to be working in 6 months do you think that sentiment will cause them to come to the spend more at the casino earlier? I was wondering if you have any color in that? I don't think we really do.
We're in a brave new world here in terms of how the consumer reacts to changes in the economic environment or their personal economic circumstances.
Certainly if you look back to pre-recession days the consumer acted one way and the knowledge of a job or the knowledge of a paycheck or the confidence in having a future job had them spending a certain way and I think at today's world that we live in it's different.
I think our expectation generally would be when people are employed they feel confident and they go out and spend money.
I think at the end of the day we can feel it for good or for bad well before numbers are actually reported because the numbers reported are obviously sort of a historical look back.
I think I'd add to Keith's comment that because of everything folks have gone through over the last few years they are certainly highly sensitive good and bad to changes in just the feel and their confidence.
Research Division</strong> And then just one final one.
So with the Peninsula acquisition behind you I was just wondering does this kind of put you guys on the sidelines for a little while regarding M&amp;A? And related to that with the sale of the Echelon project would you still ultimately want to own a Las Vegas Strip asset someday? With respect to the Las Vegas Strip I think we were clear when we talked about this previously that we're very interested in returning to the Strip.
We have great confidence in Las Vegas and the future of Las Vegas in the future of the Las Vegas Strip.
We're one of the largest employers here in town and run a very large business in Downtown and second largest business in the Locals market.
And so we do look to return to the Strip someday at the right time with the right asset.
With respect to future M&amp;A our company has a history of being somewhat opportunistic and looking at good deals and making good acquisitions the right price and the right markets being very strategic and very opportunistic.
I think we will continue to do that.
So I wouldn't say that we're on the sidelines I think we'll continue to be opportunistic which has been the history of the company.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Josh Hirsberg for any closing remarks.
Thank you and thank you for participating in today's call.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to reach out for the company and we'll be responsive to those questions.
Thanks for joining us today.
Conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Boyd Gaming Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Josh Hirsberg Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Emily.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call this morning are Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Paul Chakmak our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Our comments today will include statements relating to our estimated future results and other market business and property trends that are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of today's date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those noted in our earnings release our periodic reports and our other filings with the SEC.
During our call today we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
For a complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the Investors section of our website at boydgaming.com.
We do not provide a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures due to our inability to project special charges and certain expenses.
Finally as a reminder today's conference call is also being webcast live on our website at boydgaming.com and will be available for replay on the Investor Relations section of our website shortly after the completion of this call.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Keith Smith our President and CEO.
Keith? Thanks Josh and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for today's call.
Our results for the second quarter represent another quarter of significant progress toward achieving our long-term strategic goals: strengthening our balance sheet and positioning ourselves for continued growth.
Our focus on these goals and the efforts we are making across the company are paying off.
In May we completed the sale of Dania Jai Alai just 2 months after we divested the Echelon site.
By selling these 2 nonstrategic assets we generated more than $400 million in proceeds and eliminated more than $20 million in annual operating expenses strengthening both our balance sheet and our operating cash flows.
On the operating side we continue to successfully refine our marketing approach enhance our amenities and effectively manage our expenses throughout the business.
And the results speak for themselves.
Our second quarter performance was in line with our expectations and we saw positive momentum build throughout much of our business.
In our Las Vegas Locals region revenue was up.
EBITDA grew for the second straight quarter.
We significantly improved our operating margins.
And importantly all 4 of our major Locals properties reported EBITDA gains.
We were able to achieve 12% EBITDA growth in our Locals business on a relatively modest revenue gain.
This speaks to the power and the potential of the operating leverage we have built into the business.
We believe these improvements on our operating margins are sustainable.
And as revenues grow these improvements will drive even greater EBITDA gains.
And as the Las Vegas economy continues to move in the right direction the future for our Las Vegas Locals business looks increasingly positive.
In the last 12 months southern Nevada has added 18 000 jobs with gains in nearly every major sector.
And with $6 billion in the development pipeline more jobs are underway.
Homebuilding activity is at its highest level in years and existing home prices are up approximately 30% in Las Vegas over the last year.
As these trends continue they should drive increased consumer confidence.
As a result we're optimistic in our outlook for our Locals business.
In our Midwest and South despite increased competition we posted solid results as well.
If you factor out weakness at the IP in the quarter EBITDA would've been flat in this segment for the quarter even with lower revenues.
Once again this performance shows the effectiveness of our business model and our ability to overcome external challenges.
While gaming supply has grown in many regional markets general economic conditions remain sound and our confidence in our business throughout the Midwest and South is as strong as ever.
In New Jersey Borgata marked its 10th anniversary with a performance that was well ahead of expectations.
Despite regional competition and the lingering effects from superstorm Sandy Borgata grew EBITDA more than 4% year-over-year before property tax charge reported during the quarter.
And these positive trends have continued into the third quarter which is the height of the traditional busy summer season.
Borgata is clearly moving in the right direction.
In the long term we remain encouraged by the growth potential presented by online gaming in New Jersey.
Over the last decade we have built tremendous equity in the Borgata brand which is widely known and well regarded in the market.
This brand leads the Atlantic City market by a wide margin and we are confident it will capture more than its fair share of the New Jersey online gaming market as well.
Working in collaboration with our partners at bwin.party our New Jersey-based online gaming team is now focused on successful development and launch of a user experience that will represent this brand well.
Together we plan to offer a full suite of games including poker slots and table games under the Borgata and Party brands including PartyPoker.
We remain on track to be among the first to offer online gaming in the state of New Jersey upon receipt of regulatory approvals.
So as we look at where we stand today we are quite encouraged with the progress we are making as a company.
We remain diligently focused on implementing more effective marketing initiatives improving our operating margins making selective investments to enhance our products and strengthening our balance sheet.
We continue to make progress integrating the peninsula properties into our company.
We are pleased with our performance which is in line with our expectations.
With the new arena now open at Kansas Star and other new amenities on our way we expect continued success of this property.
Our growth pipeline is solid.
We have several opportunities to further grow and diversify our business.
The most immediate is online gaming starting with New Jersey and potentially expanding as other states consider introducing various forms of Internet gaming.
We also have a development agreement with the Wilton Rancheria tribe in northern California where early stage design work is now underway.
And lastly we have a partnership with Sunrise Sports Entertainment in South Florida.
We have the right strategy we have the right assets and we have the right team.
It is a team that has proven the ability to rise to any challenge.
I'm proud of the significant progress we have made so far this year and look forward to what the future holds for our company.
Thank you for your time this morning and now let's turn the call over to Paul who will review our operations in a little more detail.
Paul? Thanks Keith.
Hello everybody.
This was a very positive quarter from an operating perspective.
Across the company we kept cost under control refined and improved our marketing and made selective investments in our product that clearly resonated with customers.
Let's start by reviewing the highlight of the quarter our Las Vegas Locals business which posted its best second quarter EBITDA performance in 4 years and notably we were able to achieve top line gains in a market that has not exhibited any revenue growth so far this year.
We maintained our focus on running our business very efficiently improving operating margins by 270 basis points over the prior year.
That allowed us to magnify modest revenue growth into a 12% EBITDA gain.
Once again we benefited from the slot initiatives we rolled out late last year as well as effective marketing designed to enhance the new product rollout.
And by reviewing and adjusting our marketing and advertising spending we've been able to grow gaming revenue without increasing overall marketing expense.
As revenue growth strengthens we are confident we will continue to improve operating margins and generate substantial EBITDA gains from our Locals business.
Next let's review Downtown Las Vegas which also returned to growth in the second quarter as operating margins improved by more than 200 basis points.
There were several significant positives during the quarter.
First changes to our Hawaiian flight schedule have led to improved efficiencies at our charter service.
And by refining strategic marketing programs we have been successful in growing visitation and spending among our Hawaiian guests.
We're also seeing a significant uptick in visitor traffic as Downtown's popularity grows.
This was particularly noticeable at the Fremont which benefited from continued growth in pedestrian traffic along the Fremont Street Experience.
Our Downtown business is clearly moving in the right direction and we expect positive trends to continue.
Now let's move to our properties throughout the Midwest and South which performed well in light of the external challenges we faced during the quarter.
Increased capacity had an impact especially on our Gulf Coast properties and severe weather affected our operations in Iowa and Kansas.
These issues led to lower revenues but efficiencies in our operations helped us mitigate the impact to EBITDA.
Looking at the peninsula properties this acquisition is playing out pretty much as we expected.
There were significant revenue growth in this segment driven by new amenities at Kansas Star.
And in late June we opened a 6 500-seat Kansas Star arena completing the initial phase of the property's expansion plan.
Over the course of the last 8 months Kansas Star has transitioned to a permanent casino opened a hotel and arena and introduced 5 new food and beverage outlets.
We're quite pleased of the performance of this property.
Even with severe the weather during the month of May Kansas Star reported gains in both visitation and revenue during the second quarter.
But as expected the recent expansion increased expenses as well which impacted margins at the property.
Now that the initial phase of the Kansas Star is complete our job is to carefully review the operations of the expanded property and ensure that expenses are properly aligned with business volumes.
We are confident there are opportunities for margin improvements in the business in the months ahead.
We're also prepared for the next phase of Kansas Star's expansion which will double the size of the hotel and add meeting and conference space as well as additional amenities to support Western lifestyle events at the arena.
Finally I'll conclude with Borgata where strong operating performance was masked by a $4.3 million property tax charge.
Although this charge is recorded in the second quarter it covers increased property taxes for the first 6 months of 2013.
We recently concluded the trial phase of an appeal of our property tax assessments for 2010 and 2011 and a positive ruling could result in refunds and tax credits as well as lower assessments going forward.
We expect the Tax Court to make its ruling by the end of the third quarter.
Excluding this charge Borgata would've generated EBITDA of $32.1 million an increase of more than 4% versus the prior year on a margin improvement of about 110 basis points.
Like our other business segments Borgata is doing an excellent job of running the business efficiently.
But it's important to note that these efficiencies have not impacted the quality of the Borgata experience.
During the second quarter we increased our share of slot win by 150 basis points and our share of table game drop by nearly 300 basis points.
Our customers value Borgata for the quality of its amenities and service and have been less likely to be drawn away by marketing gimmicks.
So not surprisingly we have not seen significant adverse impact on our business from the increase in promotional activity in the market this month.
So to recap.
We are pleased with the progress we made across our operations in the second quarter.
Momentum continues to build across our Nevada operations as both our Locals and Downtown segments posted solid year-over-year growth on higher revenues and stronger operating margins.
We have the right business model in place and we expect we'll see accelerating benefits as the Las Vegas Locals economy continues to recover.
In Atlantic City Borgata overcame a host of challenges to post a strong operating performance that has continued into the third quarter.
And we are now preparing for the launch of online gaming in the fourth quarter.
And while we are contending with increased capacity in our regional markets the long-term direction of this business remains sound.
Economic conditions are healthy throughout the Midwest and South and we are benefiting from new efficiencies throughout the region.
Thanks for your time today.
And now over to Josh.
Thanks Paul.
I will begin by making a few comments on the balance sheet and then I will discuss items from the income statement and provide guidance.
Our total debt balance at the end of the quarter was approximately $3.7 billion which includes $1.2 billion related to Peninsula.
Our debt balance has declined by over $260 million in the quarter.
Given the balance outstanding under our credit facility we have approximately $305 million of incremental availability at Boyd and more than $30 million at Peninsula.
Our cash balance at the end of the quarter was $119 million at Boyd and $30 million at Peninsula.
During the quarter we redeemed the entire $216 million balance of our 6 3/4 sub notes using proceeds from Echelon and Dania asset sales.
This redemption saves the company about $14.5 million in annual interest expense.
From a financial covenant perspective secured leverage was 3.7x compared to a covenant of 4.5x and total leverage was 6.5x versus a covenant of 7.75x.
Borgata's debt balance was $796 million at quarter's end including $4 million outstanding under their $60 million credit facility.
Their cash balance at the end of the quarter was $34 million.
After the end of the quarter Borgata utilized a provision in its indenture to issue a redemption notice to retire nearly $40 million of its 2015 notes at a price of 1.03.
The redemption will occur later in August and will be funded using excess cash on hand and an estimated $10 million of revolver borrowings [ph].
Interest expense savings are estimated at over $3 million per year as a result of the redemption.
$22.5 million of the excess cash utilized to redeem the bonds represents a return of CRDA deposits.
We recorded a $5 million write-down in the quarter related to the return of the CRDA deposits.
Last week we also closed on a new credit facility for Borgata which extended the maturity from August 2014 to February 2018 and reduced the cost of borrowing from LIBOR plus 4.75% to LIBOR plus 4%.
Moving to the income statement.
Corporate expense excluding share-based compensation expense was $12.6 million in the quarter.
This number includes the corporate expense for Peninsula.
Depreciation expense in the quarter was $70 million an increase of about $20 million over last year due to the inclusion of Peninsula.
Peninsula's depreciation expense was approximately $22 million and Borgata's depreciation expense was about $16 million.
Our interest expense in the quarter was $88 million which includes $21 million for Peninsula and $21 million for Borgata.
Our capital expenditures in the quarter were $36 million including $11 million at Peninsula and $7 million at Borgata.
Now in terms of guidance we will provide EBITDA guidance for Boyd and Borgata.
Boyd's guidance includes Peninsula.
We expect wholly owned EBITDA after the deduction for corporate expense to be in the range of $120 million to $125 million.
We expect Borgata to generate EBITDA of $44 million to $46 million in the third quarter.
In terms of adjusted EPS guidance for the consolidated business including Borgata and assuming the tax rate of 35% with this range of EBITDA guidance adjusted EPS for the third quarter is expected to range from a loss of $0.02 per share to income of $0.03 per share.
Operator that concludes our remarks and we're now ready for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Tom Allen of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Last quarter you said that trends at the end of the quarter may be cautiously optimistic going forward.
Looking at the guidance you just gave it does seem like it's a bit ahead of expectations.
But in this press release and on the call you talked a lot about operating efficiencies.
So just as you think ahead to kind of the second half of this year how much of your kind of positive outlook is around operating efficiencies versus top line growth? Well look I think as we've worked our way through the last couple of years and we continue to be cautiously optimistic looking forward.
The operating efficiencies that we put in place in the last couple of quarters as I said we believe are sustainable that they're permanent.
We've worked very hard to kind of create a more efficient operating model and Q2 was kind of the culmination of all that coming together.
We think there's probably a little bit more that we can do.
We do believe to see some modest revenue growth in most of our markets not all of our markets going forward.
So I think it's a combination.
But we are cautiously optimistic because we've seen in prior years this recovery in different market's slow down.
So we remain cautious but optimistic.
I think one thing I would add to that Tom is that with respect to the Las Vegas Locals market in particular we expect kind of modest revenue growth to continue.
But even in that environment I think the performance that we've seen in the second quarter and to an extent in the first quarter we expect to be able to continue to show kind of growth year-on-year in terms of EBITDA.
Research Division</strong> Helpful.
And then some of your peers have talked about seeing a shift in kind of a decline this past quarter in visitation whereas before they were saying some weakness in spend per visit.
Have you seen any kind of inflection point there? And then also just on July how have trends been? We've been hearing kind of mixed signals from some of your peers.
Well I'll talk about visitation Tom.
It's really kind of a market-by-market situation.
I think when we've heard from others about visitation it's typically been outside of the state of Nevada and we can certainly echo that.
It's really more what we would call frequency the number of times during a month the number a person is coming in as opposed to straight-out visitation which is simply the number of people coming through the business.
And a number of cases our visitation is up but our frequency is down.
And typically what happens as frequency declines spend per visit goes up.
Not surprisingly as people have so many dollars for entertainment.
In certain markets and Nevada obviously was a bit of a better performer here you've seen some more consistency year-over-year in frequency than maybe in other parts of the country.
Our next question comes from Carlo Santarelli at Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just as far as your Borgata guidance is concerned obviously you've had now a little bit of the trial period with Revel being a little bit more promotional and clearly you have some tailwinds coming from what I believe was a fairly weak hold last year.
But are you guys starting to get comfortable with the overall impact you expect with Revel? Certainly because when I look at the 3Q guidance definitely stronger maybe than what some of us were expecting.
So just wondering kind of what your thoughts are and if you believe there's cost that can continue to be extracted there on a go-forward basis as well.
Sure we are kind of comfortable with the current outlook for Borgata the current trajectory.
Paul in his comments and it's been true for years that customers choose a Borgata for the quality of its amenities as well as the quality of our team members and the service they provide and promotional gimmicks haven't changed that.
Revel's been in the market for better than a year now so we've lapsed the comparisons.
Our customers have had for more than a year now an opportunity to go visit that and they largely have not done that.
So I think we're very comfortable with where we are at competitively and the position Borgata holds and kind of the current EBITDA trajectory of that property.
So I think with respect to continued efficiencies in that property like all of our businesses that there are always opportunities to continue to refine these operations and find ways to operate more efficiently.
So it's a constant focus and I think that there are more opportunities.
Research Division</strong> And then if I could just ask one follow-up with respect to the Locals market and maybe outside of the better marketing and around the slots that you guys have been able to do here for the first 6 months.
Are you seeing or maybe hearing anecdotally a change in the cadence of your customer or hearing from your property level managers that the core customer is spending more and/or visiting more often? Well I think first if we take a look at the market overall and how each of us define the Locals market and I think we all recognize in Nevada it's a little bit tougher given just the way numbers are reported.
But through May when we sort of exclude the Las Vegas Strip numbers out unfortunately we have seen year-over-year revenue declines for the first 5 months.
And so that's kind of part of our story is we're up a little bit about $700 000 in net revenue in the Locals business on a market that still is not showing any growth overall.
So that's sort of an important takeaway.
As far as the consumers are saying I think that there are better times ahead and I think people feel that in Las Vegas.
But unfortunately that has not necessarily resonated in overall market numbers that we have all been focused on.
Our next question is from Anthony Powell Barclays.
Just a question on the Peninsula segment.
The margins were down substantially from the first quarter.
And I know a lot of that Kansas Star but anything else in this numbers that cost the sequential margin decline there? No.
It really is all about Kansas Star.
I mean we drove some very good revenue numbers at Kansas Star as we expected.
I think we've talked in the past about going to really the full-scale permanent casino with all the F&amp;B outlets.
It's really a great experience but it is not something you can run at the 50-plus percent margins that they were able to in a temporary facility.
Sort of as a side note we didn't bring it up.
There was a pretty significant $1.3 million property tax difference at Kansas year-over-year that wasn't called out or adjusted out.
But that was also in the numbers in the quarter based on higher assessment as a result of the improvements of course of which we're pursuing our options on appeal on that as well.
And I've got some follow-up as well.
What synergies have you found so far in the aspect of the [indiscernible] how far are you in that process? And is there a number that you're willing to give out on the total number of synergies you can achieve there? In my prepared comments we talked about the fact the integration is going pretty much as planned.
We are achieving the synergies we expected.
We're not quoting numbers as to what they are but I can tell you that we're moving along the path very well.
We're very pleased with it.
And once again we're getting all the synergies plus we expected to get out of that business.
So it's performing just to one of our expectations just the way we would've expected it to.
And I'd add to that from the day we announced the Peninsula acquisition we never said it was a synergy story.
The company was run very very efficiently.
And so unlike for us our previous acquisition with the IP or other acquisitions that everyone's been focused on this was not a situation where there was large corporate overhead that can just simply be carved out.
Our next question is from Shaun Kelley of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about -- start with New Jersey online gaming.
Obviously it's a really interesting kind of opportunity.
And probably the number one question I get from investors is if you could describe or give us a little more color on the agreement with bwin.party specifically on I guess on the PartyPoker side of the world in terms of your economic split on that? Well a couple of comments regarding the agreement in gaming in New Jersey.
We have a relationship with bwin.party or contractual relationship whereby they're providing software to us and they will be paid a fee for providing that software infrastructure.
With respect to launching a product there if they are able to launch their own product there they will do that.
If that's approved by the regulators.
We will own kind of 10% of that business for our contractual relationship and therefore receive 10% of the profits of that business if they're able to open a separate U.S.-based business.
That could be in New Jersey or could be any other state in the U.S.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify that.
Wouldn't that separate piece to operate in New Jersey still have to fall under I guess the Borgata's license there? I mean you have to be partnered with somebody in that market.
So is it your sense that they will be able to do like a PartyPoker I guess in that case a B to C relationship underneath Borgata or do they have to find a different partner? Well I think they clearly want to get into that market.
It'll be up to the regulators.
If they are allowed to get to that market.
We certainly would like them to be under the Borgata banner.
But it's up to the regulators in terms of having them get approved in launching a business there.
But I think if they are approved then you can look forward to seeing them under the Borgata banner.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess just moving over to the Locals market.
You started I think Keith in the prepared remarks talking a little bit about just the kind of an overall macro backdrop for Las Vegas.
But as we've seen it today the growth that we've seen housing I think the auto market out there is very strong certainly the jobs have picked up but we haven't seen it translate into just revenue in the market either for you or for anyone else.
Where do you think that actually that trickle-down kind of actually starts to happen and you start to see your revenue growth? It makes perfect logical sense but kind of what are your guys seeing on the ground as to when do these customers start spending again? Yes.
Look it's a great question in terms of when we'd expect to see that consumer transition their spending from cars and other large-ticket items and repairing their own balance sheets to spending in other entertainment products including ours.
We would have expected that to happen now.
As the recovery continues on I think there's more and more of a case for that to happen more quickly.
So we'd expect to see that in the next couple of quarters.
But I've said that in the past consumers here in Las Vegas as you pointed out are buying a lot of cars auto sales are up.
Those are not from visitors those are from people who live here.
Taxable sales are up which is driven by both visitors as well as locals.
And their saving rates continue to kind of increase as they repair their balance sheet.
So we don't expect any time now to see them start to spend more money on our business.
But it's a good question.
Research Division</strong> I guess the last thing would just be how would you characterize the overall environment promotionally in that market? I think last year obviously your largest competitor was coming off of a kind of period where they had marketed as much and were really aggressive which you guys have called out.
This year it seems like you've had success with your initiatives and maintained a pretty -- at least in terms of a marketing budget maintained a pretty rational expense environment.
But how would you characterize what you're seeing from kind of the market at large promotionally? Sure Shaun.
I think Josh has a follow-up comment to your last question and Paul will follow with an answer to that particular question.
Well I was just going to say kind of Shaun I think our view or our perspective on the Locals business and Paul will add his dimension in terms of the promotional environment is that the underlying economic factors in the Las Vegas market just continually get better and that's kind of a longer-term kind of improving trend that will translate eventually into kind of a stronger consumer for us overall.
In the current environment where we're seeing modest revenue growth in a market that has not shown growth generally but we're able to show growth.
We have an operating environment we take a lot of cost out of the business and that's what has led to our efficiency to date.
And we expect that trend the latter piece to continue and then get the benefit over time from just the overall improving economics in the marketplace.
I think even today the Las Vegas market was like one of the top growing markets in terms of housing price improvement from Case Shiller.
So just the metrics in general continue to improve and we got to believe that will improve our benefit were time.
From a promotional environment standpoint I think I said in my comments our marketing expense was flat year-over-year.
And so we've been pretty consistent.
I mean how we choose to direct those dollars obviously changes can change dramatically on a month-by-month quarter-by-quarter basis just to be as efficient as possible.
And I guess my sense is that the promotional environment is similar to where we were last year at this time.
Our next question is from Cameron McKnight of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question for Paul or Josh first.
Can you give us a sense of how much weather impacted second quarter results? Well the weather specifically was an issue in Iowa and Kansas.
So obviously focused on the Peninsula assets there.
In fact we had in the month of May -- everyone saw the tragedy that happened in Oklahoma with tornadoes.
Wichita honestly isn't all that far from there and we had 18 major weather days in the month of May versus almost none the prior year.
The prior year was very common.
It's always a little bit of a challenge to try and pinpoint a number on what that means but it is very clear on days where there's severe thunderstorm warnings and tornado warnings out that people obviously just simply stay home.
In Iowa it was really more of an issue of rain and snow.
In fact in northern Iowa it snowed in May this year in a pretty significant way.
Which just again serves to kind of give people shut in.
Overall we are very involved in the agricultural community in northern Iowa in Worth County.
Compared to last year where there was severe drought there was an unbelievable amount of rain during the planting season which has led to a number of acreage not being planted this year because the growing season just got too short.
And we'll just work through that during the course of the summer as we adjust our business.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And for Keith or Paul could you update us on the process as far as online in New Jersey is concerned? Sure.
We filed our application.
We're working with the regulators to submit internal controls get the software ready and work through the process.
We would expect to be ready to launch a business upon regulatory approval which should be sometime late this year.
I don't think I have anything else to add besides that.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just finally results and guidance at Borgata were clearly very good.
Any update on ownership of the other 50% of the property there? We really have no other input no other information.
Our next question is from James Kayler of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess one follow-up on the Borgata guidance.
So the Borgata guidance is if I'm looking at this right up about 30-some percent year-over-year.
I guess I'm just trying to figure out if you think that's going to be driven by the top line or if it's driven by cost savings or was there something last year that negatively impacted the business? I think it's a combination of factors.
As you look at year-over-year comparisons I think there probably was I have to go back and verify this a little bit of softness in the hold last year.
But this quarter isn't done yet.
We obviously expect a normal hold.
I think we will expect to see continued efficiencies in the business.
And so the margin improvement we saw in Q2 we'd expect to continue.
And then we do expect to see some revenue growth.
Once again Revel has cycled through the market and is not an impact it isn't kind of the shiny new penny that people want to go look at.
So I think it'll be a combination of those 3 factors.
I think what we're seeing really -- Borgata really from our perspective has really kind of -- the momentum has picked up since Sandy.
And that momentum has just continued to grow not only in relation to Borgata's performance but then just around other aspects of the business generally.
And I think our guidance largely reflects what we're seeing in the business not only through the second quarter but leading into the third quarter as well.
And those business trends were reflected in what we kind of generally expected to happen in Q3.
So I think the guidance that we've put forth there is really what we expected to happen in the third quarter largely all year long.
And largely actually is probably doing a little bit better than what we would've expected for this quarter from the perspective of putting forth our own forecast for this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay very good.
And then just another follow-up on the bwin relationship so I guess the regulatory approval is necessary.
But just to clarify bwin is your -- the relationship with the bwin is kind of two-pronged.
One is the JV and then one is the sort of B2B relationship you have.
So they will need to get approved for Borgata to launch online or am I thinking about this the wrong way? No I think that's right.
I mean we have our JV relationship at the Borgata and Boyd will own the 10% interest in any B2C operation that bwin.party launches.
So I think you're looking at it the right way.
Right.
And James the type of license that bwin.party gets to provide the support to Borgata is some sort of user license or service provider license which is different than getting a license to provide the online opportunity to customers.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And is it a regulatory issue or is it sort of a structural issue that the state has not decided on yet whether or not sort of non-casino owners can have their own sites? I think it's just a process issue.
They're going through the process of finalizing all of those rules and regulations and if that can happen and if so how many.
It's just really a lot to be done in a short period of time.
It's just a timing issue probably.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess the last question just on the promotional environment in the locals market in Las Vegas.
Obviously it's always a very hot topic relatively few number of players.
I mean what is your -- on a scale of 1 to 10 or whatever how does the promotional environment feel? Does it feel normal particularly bad particularly good? I'm not sure a promotional environment has ever felt particularly good.
But as I said earlier to another question it's running about the same as it did last year.
Our marketing spend is flat year-over-year in the second quarter versus the second quarter of '12 and I would say it's sort of normal state steady-state.
Our next question is from Kevin Coyne of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just want to refer back to a comment I think it was either Keith or Paul that you made on IP casino and that if you normalize for that at Midwest and Gulf would've been flat.
I'm just wondering if you could expand on what's happening with IP and is it just a broad-based heightened promotion environment in Biloxi with the Golden Nugget recently opening? And then I have a follow-up.
Sure.
The Gulf Coast market for us overall is definitely taking a bit of a pause.
And I'd say Gulf coast excluding Delta Downs because we're just seeing a very different a more positive dynamic on the Western side of the state than we are on the Eastern side of the state of Louisiana or in southern Mississippi.
Keith made the comment about IP and it was -- basically if you factor IP out the Midwest and South would have basically been flat year-over-year.
Now some of that is operating expense savings that we've instilled that part of the business as a group.
Because obviously we're in a couple of markets -- Tunica Mississippi Shreveport Louisiana -- that are part of that segment that have been under some pretty significant pressure but we've been able to do better by rightsizing the businesses there.
When we look at Biloxi and Biloxi has always historically been a very promotional market I would say that with the opening of the Golden Nugget there is definitely more pressure on marketing spend in that market as a result of the change of ownership there.
Where we've seen the weakness at the IP has all been on the slot side.
IP has a very significant table game business and that business continues to perform quite well.
When we drill down into slots more specifically it has generally been our local and mid markets.
Remember IP has a 1 000-room hotel so our destination business continues to plug away pretty well.
We did make adjustments in marketing actually reducing marketing in the second quarter.
Again trying to find that niche of efficiency and we'll continue to have to refine that depending on what our competitors do.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Any thoughts on Golden Nugget as they get ready to go into Lake Charles? Any color you can add in terms of...
Not really.
I mean first of all it's going to be a while before that project gets completed but I think our view has always been that more people you can put on I-10 crossing in front of our property -- remember we are at Exit 4 we're a good 30 to 40 minutes closer than the Lake Charles property.
So the more people you put on I-10 crossing in front us we're happy about it.
We'll get our fair share.
We have a great product there at Delta Downs.
It caters to a very specific customer.
I think it's good news for us that the Nugget bought it.
Their relationships in Houston and their ability to drive traffic out of Houston will just put that many more people on the highway in front of our building and so I think we're going to do just fine.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one final one.
Can you give us the best guess as to estimated timeline for the Wilton Rancheria project? Well we're just now engaged in the environmental impacts study or survey.
That will take some time and then we'll have to work through the process.
We've looked at it as probably a 2016 opening type of a project.
Once we get through the process we get approval and they will actually build the facility and open it -- its probably 2016.
Our next question is from Robert Sullivan [ph] of Numera.
I was wondering if you can give us any more color.
You kind of mentioned this quickly around the CRDA refund that you received at the Borgata.
I think this was slightly unexpected.
If you can give us any additional information about that.
And then secondly a question just about guidance for the Borgata.
Is there built into guidance anything about the refunds that you may potentially receive from your case? With respect to the CRDA it's just a negotiation that happens between the State -- our property and that entity.
Other casinos have done it in the past and we just had an opportunity to do the same thing.
There's not much more I can say about that.
In terms of the guidance we have not built any benefit from either expected property tax reductions nor online gaming benefits either.
Got it.
And then around the CRDA would you expect any future amounts to be received from that? No.
No this was kind of a -- I mean you never say never but it was just a unique set of circumstances.
Again other casino companies have taken advantage of it and we saw an opportunity to do the same thing.
Great.
And what was the actual amount received? $22.5 million.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Hirsberg for any closing remarks.
Well thank you for participating in the call today.
If you have any other questions or clarifications that you need please feel free to reach out to the company.
Thank you.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Boyd Gaming Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Josh Hirsberg.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Amy and good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call this morning are Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Paul Chakmak our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Our comments today will include statements relating to our estimated future results and other market business and property trends that are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of today's date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those noted in our earnings release our periodic reports and our other filings with the SEC.
During our call today we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
For a complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the Investors section of our website at boydgaming.com.
We do not provide a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures due to our inability to project special charges and certain expenses.
Finally as a reminder today's conference call is also being webcast live on our website at boydgaming.com and will be available for replay on the Investor Relations section of our website shortly after the completion of this call.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer.
Keith? Thanks Josh and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
As you saw from our earnings release earlier today our third quarter performance fell below our expectations.
While we generated solid results across our operations in the months of July and August this performance was offset by a significant weakness in September mainly in our Midwest and South region.
However our year-over-year results in October have shown improvements in most of our markets.
Despite this difficult operating environment we continue to make significant progress as a company in the third quarter.
Starting with the balance sheet we refinanced the Boyd Gaming credit facility during the quarter reducing interest expense and moving our earliest maturity from 2015 to 2018.
We also refinanced the Borgata bank credit facility during the quarter.
In August we completed an equity offering generating nearly $217 million in proceeds which were used to reduce debt further strengthening our balance sheet.
Since January of this year we have repaid more than $500 million in debt through a combination of asset sales free cash flow and our equity offering.
And since the beginning of the year we have improved our free cash flow by more than $70 million annually.
We will save more than $50 million a year in interest expense as a result of debt reductions and our refinancing efforts and we have eliminated an additional $20 million in annual operating expenses from the sale of non-core assets.
We are unquestionably in a stronger financial position today than when the year began.
And going forward we will continue our focus on strengthening our balance sheet.
On the operating side of the business we continue to make progress refining and improving the business.
Our Las Vegas Locals business grew EBITDA for the third consecutive quarter as modest revenue growth continued for a second straight quarter.
Across our Locals business we are seeing the benefits of the refinements we have made to our marketing and operations over the last year.
And as Paul will discuss a bit later we are planning further enhancements to our Las Vegas Locals operations that will help us maintain our competitive edge here in southern Nevada.
Given the success of these initiatives in the Locals market we are applying the same strategies and initiatives across our Midwest and South operations over the next several months.
We are confident they will resonate with our customers across the country.
In New Jersey we're extremely pleased with our performance in Atlantic City where Borgata generated strong year-over-year EBITDA growth.
This reflects the appeal of Borgata's amenities and the quality of service provided by its team members.
In addition Borgata recently received a favorable opinion on its property tax ruling.
Over the last 10 years we have built Borgata into one of the gaming industry's strongest brands and soon we will leverage that brand to pursue the significant long-term growth opportunity presented by online gaming.
Our goal is not simply to have an online gaming presence but to create a first-class experience that is consistent with the Borgata name.
New Jersey regulators have set November 26 as the earliest date for online gaming to go live to the public.
And as you know we recently became the first Atlantic City operator to receive a New Jersey Internet gaming permit.
As we've prepared for the launch of real money online gaming at Borgata our efforts are now focused on 3 priorities.
First the integration of compelling third-party content and/or product.
In addition to games provided by bwin.party we will also win titles from a number of major slot manufacturers.
Second adequate testing of the tools that confirm the location and identity of our players.
The integrity of our product is essential and that begins with reliable geolocation and know-your-customer tools.
Finally providing a variety of payment options for our customers including credit cards checks and prepaid debit cards.
Our objective is to make it as safe and convenient for players to open an account.
We are making great progress on all of these fronts and will remain on track to be among the first online gaming operators in New Jersey.
We will launch as soon as our product meets the high expectations that Boyd Gaming and our customers have for the Borgata brand.
And while we see great potential in New Jersey I want to emphasize that this is just one important facet of a broader strategy as we look to leverage new technology to diversify our business and deliver products in new ways.
First we are offering our customers new channels for enjoying our gaming product.
In New Jersey Borgata customers are able to play from the comfort of their hotel room now.
And in Nevada we will soon launch B Connected Sports an easy-to-use mobile sports betting app for use anywhere in the state.
Next we're expanding into social gaming.
Last year we launched B Connected Social a feature that provides game-like incentives to customers for sharing information about Boyd Gaming properties with their friends.
And Stardust Casino another social gaming product is currently in a test period prior to an anticipated rollout in the United States in the coming months.
And of course we remain interested in pursuing domestic online gaming opportunities beyond New Jersey.
As lawmakers and other states proceed with the legalization and regulation of interactive gaming we will carefully consider those opportunities.
So despite some challenges late in the third quarter our company's long-term outlook remains encouraging.
Going forward we will remain diligently focused on several key strategies that will position us for future success and growth.
First we will continue our focus on strengthening our balance sheet using free cash flow to reduce debt further.
Next we will continue our efforts to refine and improve our business.
These efforts are aimed at both improving profitability and giving customers compelling new reasons to choose Boyd Gaming.
We will continue laying the groundwork for other long-term growth opportunities.
In northern California early stage design work is underway for a project with the Wilton Rancheria Tribe.
And next year we expect Florida lawmakers to provide clarity on the future direction of that state's gaming industry.
Should they decide to move forward with gaming expansion we believe we are in an excellent position to expand into the South Florida market thanks to our partnership with Sunrise Sports &amp; Entertainment.
Finally we will launch a market-leading online gaming presence in New Jersey further diversifying and growing our business.
We continue to move in the right direction and are remaining confident in our company's future.
Thank you for your time today.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Paul who'll provide an update on our operations.
Paul? Thanks Keith.
Hello everybody.
Our operations got off to a good start in July and August before slowing rather significantly in September especially in our Midwest and South markets.
But as Keith noted in October most of our operations are showing improvement over last month.
I'll get into more detail shortly but first let's talk about our Las Vegas Locals business.
We generated our third consecutive quarter of EBITDA gains in the Locals region.
Our efficient operations and effective marketing continue to pay dividends for our company.
We improved operating margins by 130 basis points during the third quarter increasing revenue even while we reduced our overall marketing spend by nearly $1 million.
One of the more significant drivers of growth for our business is our Penny Lane initiative which we launched in December of last year.
Starting next week we plan to take this successful concept to the next level when we launch an enhanced Penny Lane at all 7 of our major Las Vegas properties.
At the same time we'll also begin a phased rollout of Penny Lane in the Midwest and South.
Our goal is to create a more engaging and compelling experience for slot players and we'll be doing that by giving players what they've told us they want more bonuses more often.
These additional bonuses will be delivered through a number of unique game features and player benefits incorporated into many of our Penny titles and to get the word out about the all-new Penny Lane we'll be launching a creative new marketing and advertising campaign that should generate quite a bit of attention in the coming weeks.
As we've said in the past Penny Lane isn't just another promotion it's a strategic initiative designed to enhance and improve our gaming product in a meaningful and unique way.
Moving to downtown.
The shortfall in our results were caused by declines at the Fremont especially during September associated with construction disruption and rail work throughout the downtown area.
Despite this there are reasons to be encouraged about Downtown's prospects.
First we continue to improve yield on our Hawaiian charter service.
We also continue to strengthen our leading market position.
During the 3-month period ending in September we captured a 31.6% market share continuing our dominant position Downtown.
And as we have noted before redeveloped remains a positive long-term story for the market.
A hotel casino just reopened this past weekend returning more than 600 rooms to the downtown inventory.
In addition Zappos recently completed its move into the former city hall.
Both of these developments should lead to increased visitation and business for the entire downtown market as the revitalization of this area continues.
Now let's review our operations throughout the Midwest and South.
As noted earlier casual players pulled back sharply on their spending in September.
In addition gaming supply continued to increase in certain markets.
Together these factors led to declines in visitation and spending at a number of properties in the Midwest and South especially toward the end of the quarter.
In the Midwest increased competition played a significant role at Paradise and Blue Chip.
Illinois bars have added nearly 10 000 gaming machines so far this year including approximately 2 000 in our market area.
And in Indiana Blue Chip is contending with new capacity in both Michigan and Ohio.
To the South properties like VIP Treasure Chest and Sam's Town Shreveport were impacted by soft market conditions especially among casual players.
Increased capacity also impacted results at these properties.
These markets are reliant on government and military spending and many residents have been impacted by the sequester and ongoing uncertainty from Washington.
But there was good news as well.
Delta Downs remains one of the strongest performers in our company setting a monthly EBITDA record in August.
We are clearly benefiting from strong economic conditions in Southeast Texas and we are gaining market share as well.
This performance is a tribute to the marketing and operational skill of the Delta Downs team.
And in Iowa Diamond Jo Dubuque successfully grew visitation gaining 2 full percentage points in share despite a relatively flat market.
At Kansas Star our new non-gaming offerings continue to drive top-line growth.
However expenses are naturally higher year-over-year as well to support the significant amenities that have been added.
We removed quite a bit of cost out of the business since we first opened the permanent facility early this year and we will continue to focus on growing revenue to realize the full potential of our investment.
Finally I'll conclude with Borgata which had an enormously successful summer season particularly in July and August.
Borgata finished the quarter with a market share of more than 21% up 300 basis points.
Slot win rose more than 2% and our table game share grew by nearly 150 basis points.
Importantly these gains did not come at the expense of efficiency as we improved EBITDA margins by 550 basis points during the quarter.
A significant factor during the quarter was table hold which was unusually low in the third quarter of 2012 but returned to more normalized levels this year.
But this performance is also a tribute to the quality of Borgata's amenities and service which continue to drive strong visitation to the property despite regional competition.
It's also worth noting that Borgata's results would've been even stronger without the impact of higher property taxes which reduced EBITDA by $2.1 million during the quarter.
However we recently received favorable news on that front.
Last week the New Jersey Tax Court gave a favorable opinion in our property tax appeal ruling that Borgata overpaid approximately $48.5 million in property taxes in 2009 and 2010.
The court also ruled that Borgata is owed interest on its overpayments which we believe will add nearly $10 million to the amount we are due.
We still have appeals pending for 2011 through 2013 so the ultimate amount owed to Borgata could be much greater.
We obviously expect to see significant financial benefits from this opinion including refunds credits and lower tax bills going forward.
But since the city has indicated it will appeal this decision the timing and amount of these benefits remain uncertain.
So to recap we remain optimistic about the general direction of our business despite challenges in September.
Positive momentum is building in our Las Vegas Locals operations and we expect further gains in the months ahead driven by enhancements to Penny Lane.
We expect these marketing initiatives will provide a boost to our operations across the country.
And while we encountered some challenges in markets throughout the Midwest and South we are confident in our ability to successfully adapt by introducing new strategies and making adjustments to our operations.
And we are encouraged by improving trends in most of these markets in the early part of the fourth quarter.
In Atlantic City Borgata is posting solid growth gaining market share while keeping costs under control.
With real money online gaming and expected benefits from the recent property tax ruling we believe there is further upside for this property.
Thanks for your time today.
And now over to Josh.
Thanks Paul.
During the quarter we completed several significant financing transactions.
We issued equity and refinanced the credit facilities at Boyd and Borgata resulting in reduced interest expense and an extension of maturities.
Since the beginning of the year debt has been reduced by nearly $0.5 billion at Boyd $30 million at Peninsula and $45 million at Borgata.
And annual interest expense savings for all 3 companies is over $50 million.
Let me provide you a few details from the quarter on the balance sheet and income statement and then provide fourth quarter guidance.
Our debt balance at the end of the quarter was approximately $3.6 billion which includes $1.2 billion at Peninsula.
Incremental availability was approximately $295 million at Boyd and $30 million at Peninsula under their respective credit facilities.
Our cash balance at the end of the quarter was $102 million at Boyd and $28 million at Peninsula.
From a financial covenant perspective secured leverage was 4.2x compared to a covenants of 5x and total leverage were 6.6x versus a covenant of 8.5x.
Borgata's debt balance was $768 million at quarter's end including $16 million outstanding under their $60 million credit facility.
Their cash balance at the end of the quarter was $35 million.
Moving to the income statement.
Corporate expense excluding share-based compensation was $10.4 million in the quarter.
Depreciation expense in the quarter was $69 million an increase of about $19 million over last year due to the inclusion of Peninsula.
In the quarter Peninsula's depreciation expense was approximately $22 million and Borgata's depreciation expense was about $14 million.
Our interest expense in the quarter was $83 million which includes $20 million for Peninsula and $20 million for Borgata.
Boyd's interest expense was $43 million a decrease of $7 million from last year.
Our capital expenditures in the quarter were $42 million including $8 million at Peninsula and $6 million at Borgata.
In terms of guidance we will provide EBITDA guidance for Boyd and Borgata.
Boyd's guidance includes Peninsula.
Given the financing activity this year I also want to provide some insight into interest expense and shares outstanding.
You can expect interest expense in the fourth quarter to be approximately $79 million which includes $20 million for Borgata and $20 million for Peninsula.
Given their equity offering in August the weighted average shares outstanding for the fourth quarter should approximate $109 million.
We expect wholly owned EBITDA after the deduction for corporate expense to be in the range of $105 million to $110 million.
Excluding any benefits from a property tax reduction or the New Jersey online gaming business we expect Borgata to generate EBITDA of $22 million to $24 million in the fourth quarter.
In terms of adjusted EPS guidance we estimate a noncash tax provision that is a noncash tax expense of $3 million for the fourth quarter.
For the consolidated business including Borgata we expect adjusted EPS for the fourth quarter to range from a loss of $0.15 per share to a loss of $0.20 per share.
Operator that concludes our remarks and we're now ready for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Joel Simkins at Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> In terms of Delta Downs you spoke pretty highly about that property obviously continues to be a nice performer for you.
How are you thinking about how that asset's positioned in 2014 with eventually the Golden Nugget coming into that market? Well I think from a market positioning standpoint as we've said all along we geographically love our location.
We are about 30 to 40 minutes closer to Texas than any of our competition in Lake Charles which is where obviously the Golden Nugget project will be.
In any situation where new competition comes in obviously we have the challenges of the capacity that comes along with that.
But it's really a slot-only operation which Delta Downs is because it's a horse race track.
In Louisiana only slots are available.
We can do really an outstanding job for our slot customers and make them the kings and queens of the property.
So we continue to expect good things out of Delta Downs.
Research Division</strong> And I know you don't give guidance too far out obviously but as Vegas clearly seems to be getting better.
We're hearing a lot of positive commentary on the book of business for convention next year.
We obviously see the Case-Shiller data getting better.
How should we be thinking about sort of the top-line growth next year? Because clearly you're getting some good margin expansion even on fairly low top-line growth.
I think as we look at 2014 in the Locals market in Las Vegas I think we continue to expect very modest revenue growth.
I think there are a lot of metrics that are pointing in the right direction.
We haven't seen them fully translate into our business so we just expect modest growth through 2014.
Research Division</strong> And one final then I'll give up the floor here.
In terms of New Jersey online can you just give us sort of a high level kind of overview on how you expect to sort of attack the market share opportunity and overall sort of customer acquisition in the early days? Well without going into too much detail providing a roadmap for our competitors I think that the Borgata brand which we have worked very hard to position over the last 10 years is a leading brand in the market.
We think that will provide us a great opportunity to gain a significant amount of market share.
Once again Borgata land-based poker currently I think occupies more than 50% of the market in Atlantic City.
That's a great starting point.
We are working on the product to make sure as we said that it is as attractive as the land-based brand is and then we just think we're going to launch a very very strong product.
We have dollars budgeted and we're prepared to be aggressive in terms of attacking the market to acquire players.
Those plans are in place and we're ready to go but I don't think I'm going to go beyond those comments.
The next question comes from Thomas Allen of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Two clarifications from your prepared remarks.
The first one on the Borgata you said EBITDA was reduced by $2.1 million in the quarter because of property taxes.
Is that versus your guidance or is that versus year-over-year? And then the second one was you said that there has been some impact from the U.S.
government shutdown.
Was that factored in your 4Q guidance? First on the Borgata question the $2.1 million was a year-over-year number.
So that was certainly known when we put out guidance for the third quarter on our last call.
Just a reminder when you compare it to the prior year.
As far as the government shutdown I mean obviously there were aspects of it.
I mean what happened with the uncertainties in September relative to the budget government funding those sorts of things obviously were complete unknowns.
And I think really what you have seen is as you sort of monitor the monthly revenue reports from a lot of markets is there was a consumer pullback.
And I think you've heard this from not only companies in the gaming industry but also companies in other areas that touch the consumer.
I mean people were concerned and we know that the reaction of the consumer can be relatively sharp and swift.
The recovery that we've seen in October I think speaks to the point that the government pulled it together and is going to kick the can down the road here and everyone has regained a level of comfort.
And I think just to add one kind of aspect to Paul's comments where we've seen most of the impact has been in that lower-end segment which is obviously the most economically sensitive.
And that has been one characteristic of that segment that has been very consistent really throughout this kind of start and stop economic recovery that we've seen.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then second question.
So would you say that your guidance is somewhat conservative? I mean is it using kind of what you've seen -- I mean how much was September factored in there? And then just my last question.
So operating efficiencies have offset any kind of revenue weakness over the past few quarters.
It did less so this quarter.
Was that an impact of kind of the sudden change in trends so you didn't really have time to adjust or do you think that is more -- or do you think there's less of an opportunity for kind of cost controls going forward? Well I would say the guidance that we're providing is reflective of what we saw in the third quarter as well as part of October.
And so we're trying to be realistic in everything that we communicate publicly and that's the basis for the guidance and all of our other comments as well.
We're communicating on what we are seeing real-time and reflecting that in our communication to you.
I'm not sure I fully understand the second question but I'll take a shot at kind of what I think it is and then you can kind of ask another one if it doesn't completely answer your question.
But I think when you had such a dramatic change and it came about pretty quickly in terms of the impact of that lower consumer segment on our business overall it's very difficult to adjust on a real-time basis to cost.
You can certainly do it over time and that's what you saw us do really in well throughout 2012 as we saw weakness in the Locals business.
We worked throughout the year to take costs out of that business and react to the trends we're seeing and we'll do the same thing here to the extent it continues.
But we're always looking for opportunities to take cost out.
And I think you kind of have to be careful in terms of doing it to make sure that you don't affect your overall operations.
So we're very careful in terms of how we approach kind of the behavior that we're seeing to make sure that we want to react appropriately to it.
Yes let me add on to that and just give you some sort of real examples of what's going on within the consumer base.
In September we saw the lower end of our database -- we refer to them as rubies that's the tier that theyre in in our database -- still come in to our properties with the similar amount of trips generally speaking that they've had in the past but they're spending less.
And we've seen this before in all honesty.
It is a reaction to more macroeconomic issues that we have just talked about.
And that group we believe will recover.
But they have to feel better about kind of where the world is for them.
As we said on a month-over-month basis October to September we have seen recovery of most of our properties in that tier of the database.
Not necessarily to prior-year levels in all cases but certainly sequentially from September to October improvements.
And again I think that is simply what's on the news and what the government is doing and how people feel and its overall impact on consumer behavior.
Our next question comes from Carlo Santarelli of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was just hoping if you guys could provide some color on -- I'm a little bit confused with kind of the guidance relative to the October commentary.
Is the October commentary more October has picked up from September October looks like a little bit better year-over-year or October is better than the tenor of the entire 3Q? I'm trying to understand that a little bit better.
Yes I think all we're trying to say Carlo is if September was down x October year-over-year is not down as much.
And we generally are looking at the trends of the business and comparing October year-over-year to September year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's understood.
And then just one quick one.
Just in terms of obviously a new property -- or not necessarily new but an asset opened recently in the downtown market.
Do you guys have any lingering belief that that will have any impact on maybe your share in that market or do you think this quarter was more of a blip just given some of the construction? Well I think relative to share our share actually improved again this quarter.
With the numbers from Nevada that actually just came out earlier this morning our share was up about 30 basis points year-over-year for the third quarter.
I mean as far as new capacity that comes downtown obviously from a gaming revenue standpoint things will get carved up a bit.
We typically over the past number of years have not seen gaming revenue increases for a market be equal to a new entrant.
With that said we have some pretty compelling brands downtown.
And we think overall the dilution that occurs from a new property opening is offset by the fact that they're adding so many hotel rooms a very large number of hotel rooms to the downtown market.
And we know when people stay downtown they walk around downtown and we'll take our fair shot obviously at those folks because we think they'll enjoy our product as well.
So generally speaking sort of a mixed bag.
At the same time we think it's a good thing for downtown and will continue the revitalization that downtown has been undergoing for the last really couple of years now.
Research Division</strong> And then just really quickly on Borgata.
If you can remind us last year obviously with Sandy -- did you guys -- I don't recall you ever stating an EBITDA impact.
But as you think about this year relative to last could you talk a little bit about the mindset that goes into your guidance relative to kind of how to handicap that event? Yes I think generally we thought of the Sandy impact of around 11 -- I don't have the exact number but it was around $11 million to $12 million in EBITDA.
And so that's how we think about the performance when we compare year-over-year with and without Sandy.
Our next question comes from Shaun Kelley of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Josh just maybe first start off with Borgata.
Just curious on the property tax discussion there.
Going forward did those numbers -- if you guys were to win this or win this on appeal would that be as simple as basically adding whatever the number is $15 million to $20 million a year to EBITDA because that will be a reduction in pure property tax or does it not affect the forward and it's just a settlement of like prior taxes paid? It does affect going forward.
And you can't use the exact same number because you have to -- it's a different year that you're applying the rate to and it applies to whatever is going on in terms of the operations at that point and the valuation that is applied for that particular year.
But that's basically in a very simplistic way to think about it.
It will be a reduction in expenses going forward to the extent that the ruling of the current tax court is affirmed and applies going forward.
Sean this is Keith.
Maybe just add to that.
So to be clear if you were to take the kind of current assessment that the judge ruled on and apply it to today's value -- or today's assessment levels or mileages.
You'd see a reduction in property taxes of about $30 million a year which would obviously just be incremental to EBITDA of that property.
That's in addition to whatever the settlement is for the years that are under appeal right now.
So we would have a benefit going forward from a reduction as well as the years under appeal.
Two different issues two different benefits to the Borgata.
And not to beat a dead horse but it is an expense an operating expense that would be -- being reduced.
It would reduce EBITDA as a result of that.
Research Division</strong> Sure got it.
That's very helpful guys.
And then second thing just to go back to the online gaming discussion.
I think I'm still trying to get my arms around whether or not at launch will there be the -- I guess is it your understanding or your belief that you will launch with the Borgata under the Borgata license only one website or will there be -- I guess we have 2 websites between Borgata.com and likely a party gaming .com or a party gaming offering? I think that we would expect that when we launch that business that there will be multiple websites multiple brands being launched.
There will be a Borgata brand.
We'd expect a bwin brand to launch at about the same time we launch and there could be others that we choose to launch at the same time.
So I would expect that there'll be multiple.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And is it your understanding Keith just to be clear -- our latest understanding at least is that you can get up to I think 5 I guess websites underneath each gaming license.
Is that your interpretation as well? That's our current understanding of what the DG [ph] Has ruled on.
Our next question comes from Felicia Hendrix at Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk about your Penny Lane rollout to the rest of the Locals properties into Midwest and South? And I'm just wondering what kind of -- maybe you can help us quantify it a bit.
What kind of lift did you get from the properties where it's been at so far? It's just helpful because as we think about next particularly in the regions we're estimating much of the same just given the macro environment.
So it sounds like we should think about layering on some benefits from this promotion.
So maybe you could help us quantify that a bit.
Sure.
Well first the Penny Lane that launched last December it was December 1 of 2012 was really a marketing campaign centered around obviously penny-denominated slot machines.
The focus of that campaign was in the Las Vegas Locals business and we think it contributed to the lift we saw in the first second and third quarters.
We all know that penny-denominated machines are some of the most popular and frankly from a manufacturing standpoint where they are investing most of their capital in the development of new brands and new games.
We're taking that to another level by using a product that Bally's has.
And Bally's is the backbone for most all of our slot systems around the country.
That is proven and it's out there called their electronic bonusing suite.
But we're going beyond what just the hardware and software does and tying it into what will be a very innovative marketing campaign as I mentioned.
And that will launch in Las Vegas as well as in a couple of the southern properties next week.
And then we'll continue to roll in properties over the course of November and then ultimately get to the new Peninsula properties sometime next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just bigger picture as we think about next year and most importantly the first quarter and the anniversary-ing of some of the tax-related headwinds that consumers suffered last year.
Do you think you might see a pickup in the first quarter from easier comps or do you think that the economy just generally is weighing on the consumer such that the easier comps might not have much of an impact? I think it's hard for us to answer that question right now given we don't give guidance and direction of business that far out.
And I also think just given kind of where we are in terms of how the consumer has reacted more in September we need to see more of kind of what we can base our trends on.
I think September was on reflection something that we could've expected had we known maybe what was going to happen with the government and some of the other things.
But we don't know kind of if there's going to be a residual impact that continues to affect the consumer or not into the fourth quarter and beyond.
And so I think it's hard for us at this point to suggest what our business is going to look like in the first quarter at this point.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just quickly go back to Paul for just the Penny Lane for one second.
When you think about the impact it had last year starting from last year on Las Vegas is there any way to quantify? If you removed that would you have still seen growth x that promotion? Well I mean hard to say.
I mean we were very pleased with the results we've had throughout this year in the Locals business relative to obviously the numbers that we can all see from Nevada and others.
We think we've made a meaningful impact to where we stand from a market share where our brands and how our brands are recognized and have been able to take it to another level just like everybody else fights to find that way to really pick up market share in a market that is showing very very modest revenue growth.
And Felicia this is Keith.
I think it's also important to recognize that Penny Lane wasn't the only marketing initiative.
It wasn't the only change in the business that was implemented over the course of the last 3 or 4 quarters.
There have been a number of changes.
Obviously we call out Penny Lane because it was probably our most significant one.
But we're continually refining the business continually adjusting marketing programs continuing to find ways to attract people into our buildings.
And so I think it's hard to start to parse out it is this program is this much and another program is a different amount.
But I think it's important to note Penny Lane wasn't the only initiative that was ongoing through the course of the year.
Our next question comes from Kevin Coyne of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on online gaming in New Jersey.
If we assume everything goes smoothly and the rollout happens on the 26th just to get a sense if I'm a New Jersey resident do I have to let's say go down to the property and visit it first to get registered or can I sign up right away to gamble that day or that night? I think the anticipation is you'll be able to sign up online.
You mentioned New Jersey resident.
You don't have to be a New Jersey resident to be able to do this.
You have to be within the boundaries of the state of New Jersey to be able to play.
So this is not limited to New Jersey residents.
Research Division</strong> But you won't have to go to the property first? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I don't think you mentioned much about the Borgata business interruption insurance.
Can you give us an update on that? Yes we didn't mention anything about that.
And I think the reason is that I think we balanced the claim versus understanding the relationships that we have with those carriers and understanding the implications of pursuing a claim and the legal challenges of doing such.
So I think it's something that I would suggest that people shouldn't count on as some sort of benefit as a result of that event.
But we continue to kind of evaluate where we stand.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Josh maybe one more follow-up on your Borgata guidance.
I think what you said is there would be no benefit from the online business which I would understand to be a positive.
But in the number you gave on the brick-and-mortar business does that include any cannibalization of lost traffic at the property? Well let me just -- our view is that to the extent that there is online gaming opportunities they will more than offset any kind of impact on our existing bricks and mortar.
We actually think that overall our business would obviously improve as a result of pursuing this opportunity or commonsensically we probably wouldn't be doing it.
So in terms of the guidance it's strictly based on the business as is continuing and we would view as you stated Kevin that online gaming would strictly be a benefit to it.
In terms of the mix and how that plays out that's not reflected in the guidance to the extent that there's a marginal impact on the bricks and mortar that's not reflected in this guidance.
So does that help you? Research Division</strong> Yes I think that helps.
We have time for one more question which will come from Steven Kent at Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I know Carlo asked this question.
I'm going to try and ask it again which is the idea that October is better and better than September I think.
But is it better than June July and August? I guess I'm trying to figure out what was the sudden re-acceleration more recently? And then just separately how is the promotional environment in reaction to some of the weakness we're seeing broadly within the regional gaming industry? What's the promotional environment like? Are you starting to see some of your competitors press some of the deals? Let me take a shot at it this time.
As far as your last question and the competitive environment it is really very much a market-to-market situation.
I mean so in our case we'd have to talk through 12 or 13 different markets to really answer that.
I would say overall the more casual gamer the lower end of the database in September as I said was spending less.
So they're coming in they're redeeming their offers but effectively you have a higher level of investment in those folks.
Because they're redeeming the offers that they've earned based on their past levels of play but are playing at a lower level we believe because of frankly the psychology of that consumer relative to more macro events.
Relative to the comments about October everyone sees obviously in all these markets revenue reports come out.
Revenue reports for September sort of one after the other were not very good.
So to that extent -- though I know our numbers relative to the Midwest and the South were a surprise this morning -- really they shouldn't have been as much given the revenue reports that everybody had seen.
What we're saying is in October given we believe that the government has kind of pulled it together obviously at the end of September early October that the consumer behavior is starting to improve.
So we would not expect revenue declines in October to be anywhere near the levels that we saw in September.
That help? Research Division</strong> Yes.
All right.
I don't believe there are any other questions.
And so with that to the extent that you have any follow-ups feel free to contact the company and we'll be available to answer those and we appreciate you taking the time to dial in today and have a safe Halloween.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Boyd Gaming Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions).
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Josh Hirsberg Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Thank you Amy good afternoon everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call this afternoon are Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Paul Chakmak our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Our comments today will include statements relating to our estimated future results and other market business and property trends that are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of today's date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those noted in our earnings release our periodic reports and our other filings with the SEC.
During our call today we will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
For complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the Investors section of our website at boydgaming.com.
We do not provide a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures due to our inability to project special charges and certain expenses.
Finally as a reminder today's conference call is also being webcast live on our website at boydgaming.com and will be available for replay on the Investor Relations section of our website shortly after the completion of this call.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Keith Smith our President and CEO.
Keith.
Thanks Josh and good afternoon everyone.
Thanks for joining us here today.
For the fourth quarter of 2013 our wholly owned business performed in line with our expectations.
Despite some external challenges in December.
But before reviewing our results for the quarter I would like to begin by summarizing where Boyd Gaming stands today; progress we have made as a company over the last year and where we're going in the year ahead.
During 2013 we made great strides excluding on our strategic plan putting our company in a much stronger operational and financial position from when the year began.
From an operational perspective we diligently focused on refining and adjusting our product our marketing and our amenities keeping cost under control while delivering a consolidated and competitive entertainment product to our customers.
A good example of this is our Penny Lane initiative.
In early November we relaunched Penny Lane at our 4 Las Vegas Locals properties adding significantly more bonus opportunities for players under the tagline more bonuses more often.
We then introduced Penny Lane for the first time in our downtown Las Vegas and our Midwest and South operations.
Penny Lane is now in place at 12 Boyd Gaming properties across the country and then its having a positive impact on play across our business.
The adjustments and refinements weve made to our business have helped us to return to consistent and sustainable EBITDA growth in Las Vegas.
And while the landscape has been more challenging elsewhere were confident that we have right strategy and amenities in place to successfully compete across the country.
Were making good progress in the financial front as well.
During 2013 we eliminated more than $0.5 billion in debt and we reduced interest expense by more than $60 million annually.
And our earliest debt maturity is now 2018.
In the Peninsula were now generating nearly $100 million a year in free cash flow.
As a result of all of these efforts weve improved our flexibility allowing us to consider the number of potential growth opportunities that we believe will create significant value for our business and our investors in the years to come.
Boyd Gaming has always been focused on innovation growth and increasing long-term shareholder value that commitment will continue.
Acquisitions are good example of that for ours to be in action.
And while the landscape of potential acquisitions is more limited now than in the past we always keep our eyes open.
As we demonstrated with the Peninsula Gaming and the IP we know how to identify assets that are good strategic fit to acquire them at an attractive price and successfully integrate them into our nationwide operations to create shareholder value.
And acquisitions are just one of many ways to pursue future growth.
New developments are another and we currently have two compelling opportunities in our long-term pipeline.
First in Northern California our partnership with the Wilton Rancheria Tribe represents a significant potential growth opportunity a project at an outstanding location with great access.
Early stage design work is well underway and the environmental impact statements scoping report was filed in early February.
We continue to work with various federal state and local government agencies to move this project forward.
In South Florida our partnership with Sunrise Sports Entertainment puts us in a prime position to develop a gaming entertainment complex at one of the states most visited locations.
Florida law makers are now actively considering the expansion of casino gaming in key markets across the state and we expect to have more clarity on this opportunity in the coming months.
When it comes to growth opportunities we are not limiting ourselves to domestic markets.
One interesting possibility is Japan where law makers are now considering legislation that would bring resort casinos to their country.
Much in the attention so far has been focused on Tokyo and Osaka with the opportunity in Japan could be much broader including regional resorts and markets across the country.
We started looking closely as a possibility of competing for one or more of those regional licenses.
And recently I had the opportunity to travel to Japan to meet with various business and community leaders and introduce them to our company and our capabilities.
We have begun examining the landscape to establish certain new relationships and gaining a sense to whether Japan would be a good fit for our company and our growth strategy.
But expanding in the new markets through new developments or acquisitions is just facet of our growth strategy.
With organic standpoint there are still other opportunities to innovate evolve and expand our business example is on our gaming product amenities like restaurants night life entertainment and hotel rooms have been areas of significant growth for our industry in recent years.
It provide an opportunity to speak to an expanded demographic and the strengthen relationships with our existing customer base.
Accordingly we are increasing our focus on enhancing and reinvigorating our non-gaming amenities across the country.
Were also continuing to refine and expand our player royalty program starting this month we will begin the roll out of the B Connected program at the Peninsula properties.
Once in place B Connected will create a new opportunities to further cross market our nationwide portfolio properties to our customer base.
In addition we plan to introduce Penny Lane at these new properties in the coming months.
As we have demonstrated elsewhere Penny Lane will give these properties yet another competitive [leverage] of bonus centric high quality smart product that resonates well with players.
Another compelling opportunity is online gaming and we took an important step forward in this regard in the fourth quarter.
On November 26th we launched a real money online gaming operation in the state of New Jersey our first such operation in the United States.
And while it is early we are extremely pleased with the progress we have made so far.
Through January Borgata business has established itself as a clear market leader with nearly one-third of the total market; this new testament to both the quality of our online product and the power of the Borgata brand.
It is important to note that the vast majority of our online customer to-date have not been active Borgata customers which is clear evidence that online gaming is a complimentary not competitive to our land based business.
I deliver no product through a more familiar and convenient channel we are reaching entirely new customers and growing our overall business.
New Jersey is a good pushed up but would not be the last a number of states across the country are considering online gaming as well.
And as new opportunities emerge we will carefully consider each to determine which ones make strategic and economic sense for our company.
So as you can see we made great strides in 2013 executing on our strategy to strengthen our company and our balance sheet and have a compelling portfolio of growth opportunities that we believe will payout for our shareholders.
Our future as a company is bright and I remain optimistic about our directions and our ability to create long-term shareholder value.
Before handing off the call to Paul I would like to take a brief moment to review some changes we are making to our guidance practices.
Josh will be providing more detail on our guidance in a few minutes but wanted to first give you some color on the changes we are making and why we are making them.
First we are discontinuing individual guidance for Borgata; we will instead provide guidance for total adjusted EBITDA after corporate expense which will include our wholly owned properties and Borgata.
We have grown significantly as a company over the large several years and while Borgata remains a significant and important portion of our business it now accounts for smaller portion of our overall results than in years past.
As a result it no longer makes sense to callout this property individually in our guidance.
Our preference is to focus on overall operations nationwide rather than the quarterly performance of an individual property.
Next we are moving annual guidance.
While we are furnishing first quarter guidance today to ensure smooth transition we believe that annual guidance is a benefit for how we view our business from a long term perspective.
Thank you for your time today.
I will now turn the call over to Paul.
Paul? Thanks Keith.
Hello everybody.
As noted on our last call October was a strong month across our operations.
This positive trend continued about half way into November before weakening.
As we saw in previous quarters spending and visitation declined among casual players.
This trend was exacerbated by severe winter weather in December which further reduced visitation in many markets outside of Nevada.
But there were bright spots as well.
Across the country business among our top tier players is as strong as ever and the recovery of our Las Vegas business continued.
Lets begin our review with the Las Vegas Locals business.
Our 6% EBITDA gain marked the fourth straight quarter of growth in this segment thanks largely to the operating efficiencies we have built into our business.
We reduced marketing spend by nearly $2 million during the quarter and improved operating margins by more than 120 basis points.
And we saw benefits throughout the quarter from the launch of an enhanced Penny Lane.
Players have responded well to Penny Lanes mini-bonus features with meaningful gains in both frequency and play among participating customers.
Non-gaining business also grew during the quarter driven largely by strength in our hotel business.
As Keith noted non-gaming has been a promising area of growth throughout our business.
And were finding these amenities with a strategic priority both in Las Vegas and across the country.
2013 was an encouraging year of consistent growth for our locals business.
EBITDA increased by nearly $9 million for the full year an increase of almost 7% for 2012.
And we expect growth to continue in 2014.
The fourth quarter was quite positive for our Downtown business as well as revenue and EBITDA growth resumed which is largely the result of successful refinements throughout our business.
The changes we made last year to our Hawaiian marketing programs are continuing to have a positive impact on business volumes.
And our Hawaiian charter service is now running much more efficiently with improved yields.
Like our Las Vegas Locals business Downtown has shown encouraging strength so far in the first quarter.
And we remain optimistic about the direction of our Downtown business in 2014.
As youve heard from others in recent weeks the fourth quarter was challenging for casino operators throughout the Midwest and South we were certainly no exception to that trend.
EBITDA did increase year-over-year but this was entirely the result of a one-time favorable property tax adjustment at (inaudible).
Consumers remained cautious throughout the region.
While play from our top tier customers was solid we continued to experience declines in casual play at many of our Midwest and South properties.
Winter weather has not helped the situation.
As many of you know from personal experience this has been one of the worst winners in decades and we have contended with polar vortexes and near record snowfalls.
Weve even seen ice storms on the Gulf Coast.
This had a significant impact on our business throughout the region.
In December we estimate that severe weather reduced EBITDA by about $3 million from what we would have expected to see during that typical winter.
Despite these challenges we remain vigilant in controlling costs and successfully mitigated a good portion of the revenue shortfalls impact to EBITDA during the quarter.
And once again our Delta Downs property in South Western Louisiana was a notable bright spot in our operations.
Delta Downs posted double-digit EBITDA growth in the fourth quarter and set all time annual records for EBITDA gaming revenue and [point in].
Delta is clearly benefiting from an excellent location that driving Houston market and it is outperforming the competition which is attributed to the Boyd Gaming brand proposition a high quality product at an attractive price effective marketing great service and a comfortable environment for our guests.
In Atlantic City consistent with our revised guidance results were well below our original expectations.
A number of factors were at work; the most significant was an unusual low hold percentage in December which reduced EBITDA by $3.6 million.
We estimate that winter weather cost Borgata another $1 million in December.
And we continue to feel the impact of higher property taxes with reduced EBITDA by $2.1 million during the fourth quarter and $8.4 million for the full year.
While we did receive favorable property tax ruling in October that ruling in now being appealed by the city and we must continue to pay taxes at a higher amount until that process is complete.
However we expect to reach a resolution by the end of the year.
While online gaming did not make a meaningful contribution to EBITDA in the fourth quarter we are encouraged by the early performance of Borgatas real money online gaming product.
Through the end of January the Borgata and PartyPoker platform had a total market share of 43%.
Borgata accounted for a 30% share by itself which actually exceeded our LAN based market share by more than 8 percentage points.
Notably much of this business is coming from entirely new customers.
To-date 85% of our online players have not had rated play at Borgata in the last two years.
We are growing the Borgata database creating an opportunity to market the property to customer we have not reached before.
Looking at the first quarter weather continues to have a negative impact on Borgatas LAN based business.
We have also seen a significant uptick in the promotional activity throughout the Atlantic City market although Borgata has not needed to match this increased spending.
Moving to the online business we continue to make excellent progress expanding and refining our product during the first quarter.
Our geolocation technology has been significantly improved making it much easier for our New Jersey players access the site.
In February we launched our first 3G 4G mobile product for customers using android devices.
We expect to expand this technology to Apple devices as well in the near future pending regulatory approval which will mark the final step in our roll out of online and mobile platforms.
The addition of mobile products that can access other networks is a significant milestone for our online business.
It means the customers can access Borgata online gaming from every corner of the state regardless of whether they have access to a Wi-Fi network.
So while its still early were making considerable progress and to the potential for significant growth in our online business throughout the year.
To recap our operations continue moving in the right direction despite some external challenges.
The refinements and innovations we are making to our core business are resonating the customers.
Play among top tier players remains strong.
We are successfully controlling cost without compromising the quality of our product.
As a result our Las Vegas segments have returned to consistent growth and we are confident our Midwest and South business will improve as well in the months ahead.
Thanks for your time today.
And now over to Josh.
Thanks Paul.
During the fourth quarter we continued to take advantage of favorable market conditions to reduce interest expense and extend maturities.
In December we redeemed Borgatas 9.5% secured notes through 2015 with a $380 million term loan.
The term loan matures in 2018 and is priced with a LIBOR spread of 5.75%.
At current rate this refinancing reduces Borgatas interest expense by over $8 million annually.
And given the amount of free cash flow this property is expected to generate increases the amount of pre-payable debt and the capital structure.
This past year was very busy for us in terms of both paying down and refinancing debt.
In 2013 we repaid $525 million in debt and refinance existing debt at Peninsula and Borgata.
The net cash interest benefits from this activity represented over $60 million in annual interest savings.
In addition 2013 was the first full year of contribution from our Peninsula acquisition.
Peninsula has expanded our free cash flow generation by approximately $100 million.
Further contributing to our free cash flow is the sizable $1.1 billion [Maxwells] carry forward which is valuable to our company for a lead to next decade and our present value bases represents at least a couple of dollars per share.
The elimination of our federal tax burn on a cash basis is expected to contribute materially and directly to our free cash flow for years to come.
Our year-end debt and cash balances are disclosed in our earnings release.
We had incremental availability at year-end under our credit facilities of $268 million at [Boyd] $27 million at Peninsula and $17 million at Borgata.
From a financial covenant perspective Boyd secured leverage was approximately 4.2 times compared to a covenant of 5 times and total leverage was approximately 6.5 times versus a covenant of 8.5 times.
At Peninsula total leverage was approximately 6.3 times compared to a covenant of 7 times and Borgatas covenant EBITDA was up $121.8 million compared to a required minimum level of $110 million.
Our capital expenditures in the quarter were $37 million including $2 million at Peninsula and $6 million at Borgata.
For 2014 we are budgeting maintenance capital expenditures to be approximately $125 million on a consolidated basis.
This amount includes approximately $15 million at Peninsula and $25 million at Borgata.
In addition to our budget for maintenance capital we expect the final phase of the Kansas Star expansion to cost approximately $20 million and be completed in early 2015.
Total annual depreciation expense is expected to range from $255 million to $260 million with Boyd's level of depreciation approximating $130 million Peninsula's depreciation around $72 million and Borgata's depreciation around $55 million.
In terms of total annual interest expense we expect on a consolidated basis approximately $300 million.
This interest expense assumes the modest increase in LIBOR rates in 2014.
Of this amount we expect Boyds interest expense to be about $155 million Peninsulas to be around $75 million and Borgata's to be around $70 million.
Other items that might be of interest for 2014 modeling purposes includes deferred rent which should approximate 2013 levels of about $4 million for the year.
Preopening expense which is estimated to be about $5 million for the year and share-based compensation expense is expected to be about $16 million.
Shares outstanding should approximate 110 million shares.
In terms of overall guidance as noted in our release we expect wholly-owned EBITDA after the deduction for corporate expense and including the operating results from Peninsula and Borgata to be in a range of $600 million to $630 million for the full year of 2014 and $140 million to $145 million for the first quarter.
This guidance incorporates the following assumptions.
First we do not expect weather to continue to be an issue beyond the impacts we have felt to-date in first quarter.
We have included a negative impact of about $8 million to $10 million for the weather in our quarterly and annual guidance.
We expect Las Vegas Locals to continue to show year-over-year growth in revenue and EBITDA similar to the levels we experienced in 2013.
In our downtown segment we expect minimal EBITDA growth in 2014.
In Boyds Midwest and South and Peninsula operations we expect to show year-over-year growth on a quarterly basis beginning in the second half of this year.
When thinking about this segment of our business you should also consider the benefit from the Blue Chip $9.3 million property tax adjustment that we received in the fourth quarter of 2013 that will not reoccur in 2014.
At Borgata for 2014 we expect the land-based business to generate EBITDA similar to 2013 levels excluding a negative $5 million impact of cold weather we experienced in December.
Our Borgata guidance does not assume any benefits from a reduced property tax bill or any material contribution from Borgatas online gaming business.
Finally in terms of corporate expense which is included in our EBITDA guidance we expect about $55 million.
This number is higher than 2013 levels because of several corporate initiatives were undertaking.
We do not expect this level of corporate expense to continue beyond 2014.
In conclusion we make great strides toward executing on our strategic plan and were in stronger operational and financial position as we now head into the remainder of 2014.
Operator that concludes our remarks and were now ready to take any questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Felicia Hendrix at Barclays.
Hi good afternoon.
And Josh thanks for all the color.
The question for you on the just the Las Vegas Locals in the quarter you posted flat revenue growth there the market was up I am wondering is the driver of your actual revenue performance was due to the changes in your marketing program.
In other words since your revenues declined mainly due to perhaps the decline in the less profitable players or is it something else?  No I think as it relates to the market being up I think Felicia you have taken that from the Gaming Control Board abstracts that have come out is that your source?  Yes.
I notice there was not a correlation so I understand that.
And I think thats really probably the key driver because the January numbers as you know just came out very recently and it sort of showed that correction it was probably a bit of a false positive we believe in the December number which was up given where New Years eve fell what was reported by certain companies in maybe December versus January that probably led to that.
I am not sure there is a material change in sort of the direction or the slope of the curve for the Las Vegas Locals market.
You probably have to look at kind of January and December sort of together to get a better feel for that.
Okay helpful.
Thank you.
And have you guys seen any benefit -- the first quarter on the [strip] has been good because of increased convention activity.
Have you seen any benefit trickle through to the Locals market?  Well we see it in particular -- my comments and Keith alluded to as well on a non-gaming side our hotel business we benefit from 5 000 rooms in Las Vegas just like any of the other major players on the strip and thats certainly a positive.
It will further be benefited in March as (inaudible) March a very good convention calendar that's been written about.
And so we expect that sort of trend to continue for the entire quarter.
Great thanks.
Final housekeeping in your EBITDA guidance are you including online gaming in there? No we are not Felicia.
We are assuming basically no contribution positive or negative from online gaming for the full year.
Okay.
Im sorry you have said that already I understand.
Thank you.
Its okay.
The next question comes from Thomas Allen at Morgan Stanley.
Hi guys.
Thanks for providing the full year guidance and the color around it.
Just digging a little further as you think about kind of your regional Midwest Peninsula and properties what are you factoring in terms of same-store sales if you kind of take out properties that are getting cannibalized? Thanks.
Well I think as far as cannibalization is concerned Thomas we will be lapping the opening of new competitor in the [Shreveport] market in the June timeframe.
Beyond that there really wont be any other cannibalization as a result of new property openings until we get really very deep into the year in the Lake Charles market.
So really what our comments are as far as the Midwest and South are concerned tied to what has been a lot of disruption for weather and Josh gave you a sense of what that process in the first quarter as he went through the guidance numbers.
And then just very sort of marginal improvement over what was relatively tough year in 2013.
Okay thanks.
And then just in terms of New Jersey and online gaming youve been operating for three months now what really surprise you the most since moving on? Thanks.
Yes Tom.
We are not sure theres been that many surprises the new business is performing right now in line with our expectations.
Its ramping up slowly but it continues to ramp up nicely.
The technology continues to improve.
So from our perspective we are kind of right on track and it is performing as we would have expecting to three months into the process.
It seems and kind of the progress normally the (inaudible) has fallen a bit in February and maybe picked up a little bit in March are you I mean is there anything that drove that? No we will provide some commentary next week when the numbers for February come out but until then we wont be providing any commentary on those numbers.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from Carlo Santarelli Deutsche Bank.
Hey thanks guys.
Josh if we could just you went through the guidance on a segment level that was helpful.
I just wanted to clarify a few things.
Did you say in the 2014 600 to 630 weather was an $8 million to $10 million EBITDA impact? Yes thats what we felt to-date so far in the first quarter and to clarify Carlo its really not just weather its weather impact over normal weather that we would have seen last year.
So its not -- its all weather its the excessive kind of bad weather increment if you will.
Understood so first quarter there will be basically $8 million to $10 million spread between Borgata Peninsula and Midwest in South I would assume? Thats right.
Okay.
And then sorry go ahead.
Just in the first quarter.
Yes.
Okay.
And then if we look at the rest and you kind of extrapolate your comments on the Locals market it looks like 6% to 7% EBITDA growth.
At downtown you mentioned being flat.
And then when you look at kind of the Midwest and South the first half down and then we're obviously looking at that $9 million non-recurring in the fourth quarter.
But on an apples-to-apples basis of the kind of the one I guess 70 number.
Do you guys think for the full year you can get close to that? Yes.
I think I'm not sure what you're doing with the $9 million.
But if you take the $9 million out I think we have the opportunity to be close to that.
The $9 million was 180 less than 9 that's where I get the 171 from.
Okay alright.
That makes sense.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
(Operator Instructions).
Our next question comes from Shree Vijay at UBS.
Hey guys how are you? That's Shree Hari from UBS.
Josh I was kind of curious you gave us comment about looking at the Japan.
Maybe you can elaborate a little more on what you guys are looking to do there.
And how you plan to finance that? Sure.
I think I should let Japan expert Keith answer those questions.
And then we'll go from there.
And I think it's a little early try to figure out how we would finance it just given where we're on the process.
But Keith can give you kind of a bigger picture view of how we're thinking about Japan industry.
Sure.
If we continue to look for ways to grow the business and clearly that growth during the states is somewhat limited and growth in the Asian markets has been quite dramatic.
And as Japan is talking about it they are in the early stages basically what I have learned here to multi-step process now I am looking to it to pass maybe the first part of that middle of this year.
And so were investigating the opportunities trying to understand is it a good fit for us trying to meet people and beside whether that is an opportunity that we should take a serious look at.
So as Josh says very early of a process were in the exploratory phase introducing our company to Japanese companies and learning more about the process but as were probably pretty far way from worrying about how to finance it and what the structure or deal may look like and where that deal maybe whether it would be Tokyo or Osaka or one of the regional markets if they get approved and when they get approved.
Its pretty far up into the future but we started the process of looking in any case.
Fair enough.
And you noted there are limited opportunities in regional basis their couple of assets out there anything interesting from an acquisition perspective?  Yes.
I would say that we continue to have opportunities for acquisition.
I think they are fewer and harder to kind of understand strategically how they make sense for us.
But were always looking and I think that they are all opportunity to just have kind of gotten to the point where they make sense for us just yet.
But well look for ways to grow the company and improve the shareholder value whether thats acquiring assets potentially selling some assets as well to the extent that it makes sense for our company.
(Inaudible) we have been a fairly aggressive acquirer of assets over the last several years.
It has to fit into a very specific strategic plan and its got to be right markets at the right price and we have got to do it for a reason.
So we pay close attention to whats out there and whats available if the right opportunity comes along you will see us execute on it.
But its got to fit into the plan.
Fair enough.
And one last one on Atlantic City with one of the competitors shutting down and possibly another casino being bought out your thoughts on that market and where you see that stabilize in 2014?  Well the closing of the Atlanta Club really had no impact on the Borgata those are not our customers those were kind of never customers of the Borgata.
I think it probably helps some of the other properties to square those customers there.
So really has no impact there and therefore doesnt impact the overall market the market has gotten somewhat competitive as Paul alluded to in the first quarter as I think people are competing for those Atlantic Club customers.
And I certainly hope that the market is kind of stabilizing in terms of where its at maybe we see a little bit of growth in the year ahead and that we have kind of seen the worst of the decline.
And assuming Philadelphia second license doesnt come up at some point.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Sure.
Our next question comes from Thomas Allen at Morgan Stanley.
Hey guys just one follow-up.
So you talked just now and earlier about the potential of doing further acquisitions.
But do you have any interest in selling properties and obviously while your peers convert into an [opco propco] structure.
Any appetite for you to selling real estate to them or even potentially topping them during (inaudible)? Thanks.
Yes.
I think in terms of selling assets it just depends on the specifics of a transaction and so its hard to kind of comment generally but were certainly open to that as it makes strategic sense for us.
I think in terms of your question around would we copy 10 thats more of a strategic initiative that were not going to comment on specifically but I can just say generically that were always as I mentioned actually earlier that were always interested in growing the company and looking for an initiatives to create shareholder value.
And so its not appropriate really for us to comment on specific strategic initiatives that we may or may not take.
But just broadly were interested in acquiring assets weve done that historically very successfully in a strategic fashion and created value with those acquisitions.
And to the extent somebody comes along and offers just a multiple that we think exceeds what our trading values are for that asset and I think we have to consider for the best interest of our shareholders.
The next question comes from Justin Sebastiano with Brean Capital.
Thanks guys.
Hey Josh you mentioned there is you think there is fewer opportunities that make sense on the M&amp;A front; is that due to a multiple of that perhaps as sellers are looking for or is it a market situation that maybe the markets that you guys are more particularly looking at just there is nothing really coming to bear there could you may be give us some thoughts on that? May be let me provide a little color on that and will see if Josh has comments.
But part of it I think as weve grown in size as a company and we have expanded into additional markets that were in now it makes it -- the opportunities for us are somewhat more limited.
Size and scale is important also because its just as difficult to run a small property as it is a large property.
So we look at the size of properties performance of properties we like to buy assets that are more market leading assets not assets that are kind of in the bottom tier of the market and (inaudible) got to fit into overall strategic plan that we have in place in terms of the quality of the asset the market and the price.
So we add all those things together it just I think limits the pool.
Weve proven were very prudent acquirer of assets.
When we do acquire an asset we are able to do good things with it.
But we have our eyes open and we will continue to look for things but they do have to fit a profile.
So Josh you may want to No I think you covered it Keith.
Okay.
So since acquiring Peninsula Gaming would the IP would that have been something that you probably would have maybe past on today given your comments about size and scope of potential M&amp;A activity? I think we are looking at the IP we acquired the IP was in the low $30 million EBITDA range and weve driven it up significantly higher.
That is an asset that we will look at today something that produces $30 plus million EBITDA is clearly an asset that is clearly number two in Block C market.
If by some standards not tied for number one so it clearly is something we would look at today and we would look at in the future.
Okay.
So is $30 million kind of that threshold or is that just kind of where the IP should go? I wouldnt take that as a threshold that just is a specific comment with respect to the IP.
Okay.
All right thanks.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Josh Hirsberg for any closing remarks.
Thanks Amy.
And we appreciate you guys joining the call today.
And if you have any follow up questions please feel free to reach out to the company and we will try to help you out.
Thanks.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending todays presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to the Boyd Gaming First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please also note that this event is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference call over to Mr.
Josh Hirsberg Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer.
Sir please go ahead.
Thank you Jamie.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our first quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call this afternoon are Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Paul Chakmak our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Our comments today will include statements relating to our estimated future results and other market business and property trends that are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of today's date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those noted in our earnings release our periodic reports and our other filings with the SEC.
During our call today we will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
For a complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the Investors section of our website at boydgaming.com.
We do not provide a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures due to our inability to project special charges and certain expenses.
Finally as a reminder today's conference call is also being webcast live on our website boydgaming.com and will be available for replay on the Investor Relations section of our website shortly after the completion of this call.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Keith Smith our President and CEO.
Keith? Thanks Josh and good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our first quarter earnings call.
During the quarter we continue to make steady progress delivering results that were at the high end of our first quarter guidance.
Our operations performed well despite challenges during the quarter.
Severe winter weather was the most significant factor negatively impacting EBITDA by about $10 million to $12 million.
Borgata's online operation also recorded a $3.2 million operating loss related to the launch of this business.
Overall we are pleased with the progress we are making as a company and we are confident that we are making the right moves to position ourselves for future growth.
First we've continued to refine the business maximizing the flow-through potential of our operations.
Second we are successfully expanding beyond our existing operations establishing ourselves as a clear leader in America's largest real money online gaming market and positioning ourselves to pursue new opportunities to grow.
Third we continue to strengthen our balance sheet and pay down debt further enhancing our financial flexibility in creating shareholder value.
Let me walk through each of these areas in a bit more detail starting with our core operations.
Over the last several years we've built increased efficiency in our operations across the nation reducing unnecessary expenses without compromising the high-quality customer experience that is the foundation of the Borgata brand.
As we have seen in Las Vegas over the last year we have significantly improved our operating leverage as even limited revenue growth has resulted in consistent and meaningful EBITDA gains.
We are confident further EBITDA growth is achievable even in a flat revenue environment and we expect this growth to accelerate as the economy strengthens.
While it's always difficult to predict the future direction of the economy recent data points here in Southern Nevada are quite encouraging.
The Las Vegas area has added more than 30 000 jobs in the last 12 months making Nevada's job growth the second highest in the country in 2013 twice the national average.
And the local housing market continues to recover with housing prices up significantly over the first quarter of last year.
As consumer confidence builds and the economy strengthens we believe we will ultimately see increased spending and higher revenue in our Nevada properties.
But we will do more than simply rise with the tide we are continuing to refine and strengthen our product positioning ourselves to outperform the competition.
An example of this is our Penny Lane initiative.
We have now successfully launched Penny Lane at 15 properties across the country and will complete a full rollout by the end of the summer.
Penny Lane's More Bonuses More Often continues to prove its effectiveness driving more visits and more spend per visit across our operations.
We're also expanding our B Connected player loyalty program into new markets creating additional opportunities to drive cross market visitation.
And we continue to selectively refine and enhance our non-gaming amenities across the country providing new reasons for customers to visit our properties.
So we remain optimistic about future growth in our core business especially as economy recovers.
But growth will come from other sources as well.
One promising area is real money online gaming.
We have led the New Jersey market every single month since online gaming began and our Borgata brand represents nearly 1/3 of the total market.
We have demonstrated our ability to deliver high-quality market-leading online product.
And we are well positioned for similar success elsewhere as other states move forward.
We will look for opportunities to expand our land-based business as well.
We have long-term development opportunities in Northern California in South Florida and we continue to explore other possibilities both domestically and internationally.
We also remain open to smart transactions that will allow us to strategically expand our footprint and increase shareholder value.
We're able to pursue a wide range of opportunities because our balance sheet is stronger providing us with increased flexibility.
While we still have work to do we are making significant progress strengthening our financial position.
Deleveraging the company remains a strategic priority.
In the first quarter we used free cash flow to pay down $55 million in debt bringing our total debt reduction to nearly $600 million since the start of 2013.
As a result of our ongoing debt reduction and our refinancing activities we estimate we will save about $80 million in annual interest expense going forward.
In addition our free cash flow has further bolstered by our $1.1 billion loss carryforward which essentially eliminates our federal tax burden for the foreseeable future.
Going forward we will remain diligent and focused in our efforts to strengthen the balance sheet using free cash flow to reduce debt and create long-term shareholder value further enhancing our ability to grow.
Creating long-term shareholder value can take many forms.
As I discussed earlier we are pursuing several initiatives including organic growth online gaming new developments and acquisitions as ways to build shareholder value.
But we will consider other strategic alternatives as well.
Regardless of which initiatives we choose to pursue we are always open to ideas and suggestions on how to create shareholder value including those that come from outside the company.
We take these suggestions seriously and carefully consider all options for building shareholder value.
At the end of the day our goal as a company is delivering long-term sustainable results that benefit all shareholders.
Boyd Gaming is making great strides in this regard and I am as confident as ever about the future of our company.
Thank you for your time.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Paul to provide more details on our operating results.
Paul? Thanks Keith.
Hello everybody.
As noted earlier unusually severe winter weather had a significant impact on our business outside of Nevada negatively affecting EBITDA by about $10 million to $12 million.
Despite these challenges our operations performed well.
Overall wholly-owned property operating margins were essentially unchanged year-over-year thanks to efficiencies in our business.
Now let's get started by reviewing our Las Vegas Locals segment which remains a positive story.
Even though year-over-year comparisons are getting tougher we posted our fifth consecutive quarter of EBITDA growth led by strength in our destination business and continued efficiencies in our operations.
While first quarter gaming revenues showed modest year-over-year declines across the market we continued to maintain our market share and kept customer reinvestment steady with prior year levels.
Our non-gaming amenities performed well during the quarter.
This is partially a reflection of a strengthening market citywide.
Visitation room rates and occupancy are all improving and we're also giving customers new reasons to choose our properties over the competition by actively refining our non-gaming amenities.
We recently completed an extensive remodel of hotel rooms at the Gold Coast as well as 800 rooms at the Orleans.
These investments paid dividends during the quarter as both properties showed solid gains in hotel revenues.
As noted previously we see more opportunities to drive further growth by directing our existing CapEx budget toward our non-gaming amenities.
For example a remodel of all 400 rooms at the Suncoast is scheduled to begin later this year.
We will be refurbishing the Gold Coast meeting space this summer.
The Orleans Hotel project will resume in 2015 covering the balance of the nearly 1 900 rooms at the property.
And we are looking at numerous opportunities to reinvent and reinvigorate our food and beverage offerings.
By giving customers new reasons to visit our properties we are confident these investments will help sustain positive momentum in our Locals business.
Our Downtown Las Vegas business generated strong EBITDA growth as we achieved our best first quarter in 5 years.
We are successfully capturing more walk-in business from the Fremont Street Experience.
Thanks to refinements to our product and increased visitation in the Downtown area.
We also benefited from improved yields at our Hawaiian charter operation.
Looking ahead visitation to our Downtown property should pickup further following the opening of the SlotZilla zip line on Fremont Street this past weekend.
Customers end their ride right outside the Fremont's front door creating an incremental new source of visitation for our Downtown business.
Looking outside of Las Vegas weather had a significant impact on our operations in the Midwest and South during the first quarter as severe winter weather even reached as far South as the Gulf Coast.
Factoring out the impact of weather however end results would have been much closer to year-ago levels.
We are cautiously optimistic that our business in the Midwest and South is reaching a turning point.
While casual play has remained soft business from our top-tier customers is quite strong and we believe that modest year-over-year EBITDA growth will begin in the second half of this year.
One of the catalysts for this growth will be the introduction of our B Connected player loyalty program at the former Peninsula properties.
We launched B Connected at Evangeline Downs and Amelia Belle in the last few weeks and remain on track to complete the rollout by the end of the summer.
And with the addition of B Connected we are also launching Penny Lane at these properties.
Based on the positive initial feedback that B Connected has received so far in Louisiana and the success of Penny Lane in markets across the country we think these initiatives will be quite effective in driving growth at our 5 newest properties and increasing cross visitation with the rest of our nationwide portfolio.
At Kansas Star work is now underway on our Phase 2 expansion project.
Our hotel joint venture at Kansas Star is currently adding 150 rooms which will double the property's room count when completed this summer.
Separately we are investing $20 million in various non-gaming amenities including meeting and banquet space and an equestrian pavilion.
Scheduled for completion by the end of this year we believe this project will further expand Kansas Star's appeal as a regional destination.
To the East Borgata was severely impacted by winter weather as well.
With more than 40 inches of snow during the first quarter Atlantic City's snowfall was more than 3x greater than last winter.
Our feeder markets were hit hard as well.
Philadelphia received nearly 57 inches of snow compared to just 8 inches last year.
This obviously had a significant impact on customer volumes and was the primary reason for declines in both revenue and EBITDA during the quarter.
EBITDA was further impacted by $2.5 million in higher utility costs.
We continue to face higher property taxes as well which reduced EBITDA by an additional $2.1 million when compared to the first quarter of last year.
This is obviously not a new issue for the property.
In fact over the last 2 years tax hikes have cost us almost $20 million in total.
Moving to our online business.
We remain quite pleased with our initial results.
Together with our partners at bwin.party we have led the New Jersey market every month since online gaming began building a combined market share of nearly 40%.
Like any startup business we invested heavily in marketing and advertising.
Of the $3.2 million operating loss reported by our online business during the quarter about $2 million was due to onetime nonrecurring expenses.
We are now adjusting these expenses to a more sustainable run rate which had progressively improved our bottom line.
We continue to make good progress refining the product and technology and enhancing our game offerings with third-party content from a variety of suppliers.
And we've expanded our payment options for our customers including our recent addition of Neteller a popular prepaid account service.
So to recap we continue to make steady progress in our operations.
Positive momentum is continuing in our Las Vegas business driven by efficient operations and targeted reinvestment in the business.
And factoring out weather our operations in the Midwest and South would have performed much closer to prior year levels strengthening our confidence that growth will resume in the region in the second half of 2014.
And with our market-leading land-based and online products we are well positioned at Borgata as well.
Thanks for your time today.
And now I'll turn it over to Josh.
Thanks Paul.
As Keith noted earlier we continue to make good progress strengthening our balance sheet reducing debt by another $55 million during the quarter.
We have incremental availability under our credit facilities of approximately $300 million at Boyd $35 million at Peninsula and $20 million at Borgata.
We remain in compliance with our financial covenants.
Boyd secured leverage was approximately 4.2x compared to a covenant of 5x and total leverage was approximately 6.7x versus a covenant of 8.5x.
At Peninsula total leverage was approximately 6.3x compared to a covenant of 7x and Borgata's covenant EBITDA was about $114 million.
Capital expenditures were $18 million during Q1 including $6 million at Peninsula and $2 million at Borgata.
Much of our capital spending is scheduled for later this year.
And as a result we continue to project about $120 million in maintenance capital for the full year between Boyd Peninsula and Borgata.
And an additional $20 million of expansion capital at Peninsula for Kansas Star's Phase 2 development.
For the second quarter we expect our Las Vegas Locals and Downtown segments to perform generally in line with prior year levels.
Borgata should slightly exceed prior year results and our other operations outside of Nevada should see year-over-year declines similar to the first quarter absent the weather issues we experienced during Q1.
Slightly more than half of the negative weather impact we discussed earlier was attributable on a combined basis to our Midwest and South and Peninsula segments during the first quarter.
We are more optimistic about the outlook for our business in the second half of the year as year-over-year comparisons for the third and fourth quarter will grow more favorable in all segments of our business.
Starting in the third quarter we will also anniversary new competition in the Shreveport market as well as most of the buildup of gaming devices in Illinois.
On a full year basis we are comfortable that our Las Vegas Locals business can grow EBITDA at levels similar to what we saw in 2013.
We expect full year EBITDA from the Downtown segment to be comparable with prior year levels.
And as I commented a moment ago in our Midwest and South and Peninsula segments we expect to show year-over-year growth beginning in the second half of this year.
When thinking about the Midwest and South segment remember to take into account the $9.3 million property tax adjustment at Blue Chip in the fourth quarter of 2013 that will not reoccur in 2014.
At Borgata we now expect the business including both land-based and online to be about even with its performance in 2013.
This guidance does not assume any benefits from a reduced property tax bill.
However it does take into account the $3.2 million operating loss in our online operations during Q1.
We remain optimistic about Borgata's long-term prospects given its proven ability to compete regionally a well-understood competitive environment and expected long-term benefits from online gaming and property tax reductions.
We remain confident that we are moving in the right direction and are comfortable we will be within the range of our previous guidance.
However given recent trends we are less optimistic about the high end of our guidance.
As a result we are narrowing our full year EBITDA guidance to $600 million to $620 million for 2014.
Operator that concludes our remarks and we're now ready to take any questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Thomas Allen from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Two questions on guidance.
The first which segment specifically drove the cut to the high end? And secondly can you just give us some more color on what drives the high end versus the low end of the range? So you mentioned you expect kind of Midwest South and Peninsula properties EBITDA to turn positive in the second half.
If that wasn't to play out do you think you could still hit the low end of guidance? So with respect to setting guidance to the high end and bringing it down or bringing the top end down it really kind of trends across all segments of our business.
It's not any one particular segment that causes us to take a look at and adjust that high end of the range.
I think if -- I think we generally expect given kind of the third and fourth quarters of last year and this is consistent with kind of the comments and the points I was trying to make is that we expect all of our segments to really do better in the third quarter and fourth quarter.
It's not any one particular segment that kind of makes us reach the guidance that we're providing.
I think if we had multiple segments not be able to meet kind of our expectations then we probably would be towards the lower end of that guidance and perhaps below.
But I think just given where we are in terms of our -- the trends of the business even today and given kind of the softness that we saw in those 2 quarters last year it's hard to imagine that we would be below those levels.
But we'll have to see how it plays out over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on online gaming.
I think you said in the past you expected the impact this year to earnings to be pretty immaterial.
Now that you've gotten through the first quarter and have seen this loss I mean do you still feel like you can have kind of no impact to earnings? I mean I think we model you guys losing about $2 million this year.
And if you look at precedents from other markets that have opened companies typically do see losses early on.
And then I guess another part of this question is just how do you balance investing for kind of long-term market share which is what it appears you were doing at the beginning with kind of trying to take kind of nearer-term earnings? Sure.
Thomas with respect to kind of where we see our online gaming business this year the loss in the first quarter was primarily driven by the startup costs and launch advertising which is fairly typical in a new business.
Many times you may have preopening costs we didn't have that luxury because we opened just recently.
And so a lot of advertising happened in the first quarter.
We would expect that by the end of the year that this will be cash flow neutral or profitable.
And so we don't see it as an impact on the Borgata results when you look at the full year 2014.
Once again the loss when you strip out the startup costs was about $1 million in Q1.
So we think that that will narrow fairly quickly as we go through Q2 and Q3.
Research Division</strong> I guess the second part of my question is really how do you -- are you worried at all that if you pull back your marketing spend you're going to lose some of the great market share you're taking so far? No not really.
I think a lot of our market share that we've gained is not due to the $2 million or so that we spent in marketing and startup advertising.
It really has to do with the power of the Borgata brand.
I mean the Borgata has been in the market for more than 10 years now it's developed a very strong brand.
And I think the reason we control generally 1/3 of the market by ourselves is simply the power of that brand.
So we'll continue to market and advertise in a prudent fashion where we think we need to when we think we need to and provide the right incentives to our customers to keep them on our site.
But we don't think kind of pulling back to a more normal run rate is going to impact our market share or our ability to continue to run a good business there.
Your next question comes from Shaun Kelley from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the -- just what you're seeing right now in the regional landscape and if you are a little bit more cautious? We've heard a number of operators kind of hinted that.
And very specifically could you give us just any color on what you're seeing in Kansas? Because I did notice I think the March numbers came out today and Kansas Star was actually down I think double digit in March.
So I was wondering if there's any kind of reason for that or possible is it -- if it's possibly construction disruption from what you guys are working on at Phase 2? That would be really helpful.
Sure.
I think -- well first as it relates it relates to Kansas Star it's not construction disruption we just broke ground on that project and it really wouldn't be fair to certainly claim that.
I think the level of revenues at Kansas Star which I think actually came out about a week or so ago in a preliminary fashion actually were down -- actually to a lesser extent than it was the past couple of months.
I think you have to just look at the overall time line.
It was just a little over a year ago that the permanent casino Kansas Star with all its bells and whistles and restaurants opened up to very very strong demand and very high visitation.
They're typically if you just trend out a new property opening there is a sort of plateauing out and pullback as everyone who wanted to go see it kind of went.
And I think we're now in sort of a more or less I'll call it a steady state operating environment having been open now for some time.
So a little bit of what we see is what you get at Kansas Star.
Still over half of the total gaming revenue generated in the state of Kansas very very successful property.
And really doing pretty much really what we expected.
And I think we will get a nice uplift with the addition of the hotel room amenities the additional hotel rooms that I mentioned this summer followed by some really really nice meeting space and all the equestrian support facilities that continue to drive more events in our arena at that property.
So a long road to go there.
I think to the first question which was about general trends that some of our competitors have mentioned the last week or so.
In April I think we would probably just echo their comments.
There is a number of sort of events in April that are generally not traditionally super positive to gaming.
Those being tax day which is not a great day for the gaming business which was combined right on top of Easter weekend which is definitely one of the slower weekends.
So not totally unreasonable to think there would be some trends down but we're still looking for some good business uplift as we get into May and June.
And as you know many of the regional markets showed their -- the most strength in the summer particularly to the North where obviously it has been a brutal winter.
Research Division</strong> And I guess my follow-up would be as it relates to the guidance I was wondering are you guys factoring in any impact from Golden Nugget and Lake Charles on Delta Downs or do you think that's going to open actually late enough in this year that will really not be an issue for '14 more of an issue for '15? We have definitely factored it in.
And I think based on what we're hearing in that market their opening is probably a little bit later in the year than maybe we would have thought it was going to be a number of months ago.
So really we only expect an impact in the fourth quarter of this year.
Research Division</strong> And to be clear then you think even with that Midwest and South can be up on a year-on-year basis I would assume then? Absolutely.
Our next question comes from Carlo Santarelli from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So Josh I just wanted to confirm one of the things you said as you were going through the guidance.
The Midwest and South for the 2Q you should see declines akin to the 1Q x weather which I guess is quantified as close to $6 million or so.
Yes.
That's correct.
I was worried that people wouldn't get it I'm glad to know you got it correct Carlo.
Research Division</strong> Well if I got it everybody got it then.
Good.
Research Division</strong> The other question was you guys made reference to comps getting easier and obviously some of that is competitive in nature so you'll start to see a lot less on the cannibalization front.
But when you think about just going up in the easier comps as we've seen not at your properties but across regionals in general.
We've kind of seen easier comps and looking like the light at the end of the tunnel when things could turn positive.
I guess my question is as you look to the second half predominantly in the Midwest and South what gives you I guess the optimism that just facing easier comps is going to allow kind of some of these properties to breathe and grow a little bit? Yes.
I'll take a shot at it and if any of my other folks on the call want to try to help out they can.
But I generally think that just -- what we saw last year in the third and fourth quarter was a real degradation in the business beyond kind of what we would have considered as normal weakness in terms of the trends of the business.
If you remember and look back really starting in the third quarter and those folks who have met with me subsequent to that really talk about the second half of the year.
And even through the first quarter of this year we've seen a weakness in the lower-end consumer.
I would say there were periods of time certainly last year where we saw some dramatic reversals in consumer behavior.
And we just don't -- obviously they were unexpected last year and I don't think we expect them to reoccur this year.
In other words they were just -- while things were weak they just got much weaker in certain periods of time.
And I think that's drive some of it.
I think also we generally are -- we're kind of cautious at this point just given what we're seeing in April.
But at the same time some of the trends that we're picking up like in some of the markets where we see competition some of our properties are actually doing better than we would have expected at this point.
So we think there is an underlying weakness of the lower-end consumer that continues to persist.
But it does seem to feel a little bit better and we're somewhat hopeful that we don't see kind of the surprises that we felt last year primarily in the second half of the year.
Our next question comes from Harry Curtis from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
Going back to Las Vegas can you give us a sense of just your customer behavior as far as frequency and spend per visit? Well I think as it relates to Las Vegas a little bit different by market Downtown and Locals.
But I mean overall I think as others have said frequency is down.
And some of that obviously in the Midwest and South is very much weather-related.
But nonetheless we've seen frequency down.
Spend per visit or daily actual or daily theoretical is up in the Las Vegas Locals business and has been for now going on 2 years.
Research Division</strong> And my follow-up question is sort of the elephant in the room.
Keith spoke about the board's emphasis on creating value.
Can you give us some commentary on the pros and also the challenges of the specific proposal to consider the read option? Sure Harry.
Well as I said in my comments we spent a lot of time thinking about ways to improve and create shareholder value in the company.
And those take any number of forms whether it be acquisitions or new developments or new businesses like online gaming or other strategic alternatives.
Each one of these takes a considerable amount of time and effort to analyze and vet through and understand the issues and the challenges both short term and long term and to ensure that they are the right long-term positioning for the company.
Historically we haven't talked about any of these types of things until we knew that they were right for the company and we wanted to say something to all of our shareholders.
Not unlike an acquisition where we would announce it once we had a deal.
And so there's really not much more to say except that we continually study all of these alternatives and all of these options to make sure that we are taking the right actions on behalf of all of our shareholders creating long-term value.
But once again until we're finished vetting them until we believe that there's a good direction for the company to take we're really not going to engage in what I consider premature dialogues on the topic.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Robert Shore from Union Gaming Group.
LLC</strong> I had a question on the Downtown segment.
We're definitely seeing a lot of development happening in Downtown Las Vegas driving the younger and non-gaming customer Downtown.
Is there an opportunity to reprogram some of their assets to better capture these new customers coming Downtown? Well I mean I think -- I mean the younger customer is certainly looking for something different Downtown.
Really no different than in any other market.
And I think others have talked about it even on the strip as well.
And you've seen developments on the strip to continue to focus on the younger customer.
It is really an unbelievably broad mix of folks that are coming to Downtown Las Vegas all age groups all nationalities from all parts of the world.
And again I think we have just done a really good job especially at the Fremont to be able to capture really what ends up being as I think a disproportionate share of folks that come down whether it's somebody looking to play blackjack or slots or go to Dunkin' Donuts or Tony Roma's.
It is -- I guess all of those types of things are available and appeal to a broad mix of folks.
And our next question comes from Jake Fuller from FBR.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to get an update on the time line around the Borgata property tax issues namely the 2011 2013 case.
And then any thoughts on the appeal process for the '09 '10 years? Well with respect to the appeal process I mean it is working its way through the system and really don't have any estimate of when that appeal process will kind of run its course.
With respect to the other years what I can tell you is that the new administration has clearly shown a desire to find ways to move this forward and we're engaged in what I think are productive discussions with the city.
But other than that we don't have anything to report it's -- we don't know if we'll get to a deal or when we'll get to a deal and what that deal may look like.
But we're at least engaged in what I consider productive dialogue so it's a positive step.
Research Division</strong> I think on the last call you had mentioned having some expectation for a resolution around or before the end of this year.
It sounds like that isn't necessarily the case any longer? It's hard to tell.
Sometimes conversations speed up and sometimes conversations speed down or slowdown it's really hard to tell at this point.
So I'm probably less willing to predict today.
And everyone at this time I'm showing no additional questions.
I'd like to turn the conference call back over to Mr.
Hirsberg for any closing comments.
Thanks Jamie and thanks to each of you for joining the call today.
If you have any follow-up questions or think of anything after the call that you need to address please don't hesitate to call the company.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We do thank you for attending.
You may now disconnect your telephone lines.
Good day and welcome to the Boyd Gaming Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions).
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Josh Hirsberg Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Andrew.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our second quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call this afternoon are Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Paul Chakmak our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Our comments today will include statements relating to our estimated future results and other market business and property trends that are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of today's date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those noted in our earnings release our periodic reports and our other filings with the SEC.
During our call today we will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
For a complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the Investors section of our website at boydgaming.com.
We do not provide a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures due to our inability to project special charges and certain expenses.
Finally as a reminder today's conference call is also being webcast live on our website boydgaming.com and will be available for replay on the Investor Relations section of our website shortly after the completion of this call.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Keith Smith our President and CEO.
Keith? Thanks Josh and good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us for our second quarter earnings call.
The results we reported earlier today for the second quarter clearly did not meet our expectations.
Persistent weakness in spending among casual players and the shifting spend pattern of todays consumer continue to impact our industry and our operation across the country.
This level of performance in the second quarter is not acceptable to us and we remain focused on various strategic initiatives and then improving our results in the current environment.
I will walk through the progress were making in those initiatives in a moment but first let me take a few minutes to review our top line results and provide some color on the trends were currently seeing in the business and factors that drove the quarter.
Revenue across our wholly owned business declined approximately $25 million on the year-over-year basis while wholly owned property EBITDA was down approximately $12 million as we were able to mitigate more than half of the revenue shortfall through cost efficiencies.
The softness in our wholly owned business was concentrated in our regional operations which accounted for $23 million of the $25 million shortfall and approximately half of this decline was attributable to three properties that are dealing with capacity issues in their markets.
Outside of these areas the vast majority of our regional markets are clearly stable from a competitive perspective and then most cases we saw a sequential EBITDA improvement from the first quarter.
Our Las Vegas locals business saw top line trend that was similar to first quarter and had it not been for lower hold and higher utility expenses EBITDA would have on par with the prior year.
Our long-term outlook for the Nevada business remains positive.
The Southern Nevada economy is clearly strengthening and with the call structure we put in place were well positioned to generate increased profitability.
The economic recovery drives growth.
The challenge we have is predicting exactly and when exactly how that recovery will translate in a consistent increases in spending from local residents specially those at the lower end.
We believe Borgata continues to outperform the competition.
Borgatas land base business saw a top line growth as more than $2 million however the EBITDA -- the gain in EBITDA was much more substantial due to our recent property tax settlement which contributed $11.8 million to quarterly results.
This is not the total cost of Borgatas strong quarter even without the tax rate benefit Borgatas land-based operations would have posted a strong year-over-year increase in EBITDA.
Quarter-after-quarter we see the Borgatas customers are willing to bypass more convenient options to enjoy our brand of hospitality and first-in class gaming and nongaming amenities.
For three of the last four quarters Borgata has gained the market share in the broader northeast region which includes Atlantic City Eastern Pennsylvania New York Maryland and Delaware.
The same cannot be set for Atlantic City competitors.
In recent weeks several properties have announced plans to close.
This is obviously not welcome news for anyone.
While all these closures are painful for the local economy they should help create a more rationale environment in this market.
Looking at our business nationwide we continue to believe that economic recovery will help drive sustain growth in our business especially as casual play recovers.
However as our second quarter results clearly show this is not happening yet.
Accordingly we have revised our full-year guidance as you saw in this afternoons press release.
This revised guidance assumes that our performance in the third and fourth quarters will be similar to last year.
While we believe that these revisions are realistic given what we are seeing in our markets today we are not satisfied with this level of performance and were not simply waiting for the economic recovery to show up in our business.
We are working diligently to recline and strengthen our operations to address the trends we are seeing in our markets and position the business to return to sustainable and predictable growth.
Let me outline the progress we have made in the last three months.
First we have strengthened our senior management team.
As we announced last week we are increasing our focus on strategic marketing naming Chris Gibase to the newly created position of Chief Marketing Officer with oversight of our marketing and advertising efforts across the company.
We have also announced several additional executive appointments.
We have appointed Steve Schutte to the position of Senior Vice President of Operations with oversight of our two Iowa properties Sam's Town Shreveport and Sam's Town Tunica.
Steve brings significant operating experience with the fresh perspective to our senior management team having previously served in senior operating positions with Hard Rock Cleveland and Station Casinos.
We promoted Vince Schwartz General Manager of the IP to the position of Senior Vice President Operations of the IP Treasure Chest and Amelia Belle and weve expanded the responsibilities of Ted Bogich giving him oversight of Blue Chip Par-A-Dice Kansas Star Delta Downs and Evangeline Downs.
By expanding the responsibilities of Vince and Ted two of our talented operations executives we are able to further leverage their skills and expertise.
Next as we talked about on our last several calls we have identified target opportunities to reposition and transform select amenities throughout our portfolio.
Our industry has seen a significant and sustained shift in consumer behavior over the last few years.
Spending patterns have changed and we need to make sure that our products are aligned with what the customers are looking for today.
We must also prepare for long-term changes in the demographic to make up more customer base.
While mindful of the great value of our existing base of loyal customers and the need to find ways to expand our relationship with them with the meaningful upside potential and attracting new customers with redesigned and reimagined amenities.
These include our hotel rooms food and beverage facilities nightlife and event program are among others.
We firmly believe these initiatives will not only speak to new customers but will also help us gain a greater share of relatively existing customers.
Many of our properties across country can be successfully enhanced taking advantage of the shifts in consumer spending we are seeing in our industry.
Our gaming product remains appealing to our core customer; delivering experience that has appealed beyond the casino floor one who speaks to consumers that we arent seeing today will broaden our customer base improve our competitive position and generate long-term sustainable growth.
The potential of the strategy has been demonstrated by The Orleans of Gulf Coast were both properties are benefiting from recent hotel room upgrades.
Redesigned rooms of these properties give us a pleasure in more appealing room product which is driving higher rates and expanding our audience.
And in the coming months we will continuing this strategy by investing a portion of our existing capital budget for upgrading remaining room product at The Orleans and at the IP.
We also plan to reposition our room product at the Suncoast and our regional hotel Tower Blue Chip.
In addition we are in the early stages of redesigning and reconstructing a number of our food and beverage facilities in our Las Vegas local properties.
This strategy will be a multi-year process to reposition and upgrade or properties and ways that will allow us to expand our customer base and diversify our business.
And while it is early we are already seeing encouraging results from customers both existing and new.
We are enhancing our operations in other ways as well.
Over the last several years our focus on creating efficiencies has helped us build strong flow through potential into our business without compromising the high-quality experience that our customers expect.
While we have already removed significant costs we are committed to finding additional opportunities to improve our margins and maximize profitability.
We will also continue to leverage Be Connected a nationwide loyalty program as an opportunity to enhance topline results.
We continue to make progress on this front in the second quarter and are nearing the completion of the rollout of this program at five Peninsula properties.
While it is still early we are seeing encouraging initial results with meaningful games in cross property play at Evangeline Downs and Amelia Belle in the first two months following their launch in Be Connected.
Going forward we'll focus on using the expanded Be Connected network to increase our share growth and keep customers loyal to our nationwide family properties.
Looking beyond our existing portfolio we are continuing to pursue important development opportunities and remain on the outlook for additional ways to strengthen our growth pipeline.
One important part of that pipeline is online gaming.
And while early results from New Jersey have fallen short of initial expectations we continue to see online gaming as a long-term strategic opportunity to expand our customer base diversify our business and create a new channel for marketing our land based business.
Since launching our online operations last November approximately 75% of the accounts that have been created our customers who are not active players of Borgata and we are seeing great initial response in actively marketing our land based product to them.
While online revenues have flattened out in recent months we believe it is due to seasonality of the business; similar to whats been experienced with online gaming in Europe.
During the warm summer months people simply spend less time online.
As colder weather returns we believe the trends should reverse increasing visitation and spending on our online gaming sites.
Accordingly we believe trends will strengthen in this business later this year.
In our online business posted an operating loss of approximately $1.8 million in the second quarter.
We reached a key milestone in July as our online business broke even for the month.
We believe this business will continue to operate on a breakeven basis in the third and fourth quarters.
Looking ahead we believe there is opportunity for further growth online and we are well positioned to take advantage of this growth should other states decide to move forward with the legalization and regulation of real-money online gaming and were actively taking advantage of online and mobile growth opportunities that are available to us now.
For example in the next several weeks we will be formally launching a mobile sport wager product in Nevada in time for the upcoming football season.
Finally strengthening our balance sheet remains a top priority for us.
We pay down approximately $100 million in debt for so far this year and remain on track for $200 million in debt reduction in 2014.
We will also continue to benefit from our $1.1 billion loss carry forward which eliminates our federal tax burden for the foreseeable future.
We will remain diligent and focus in our efforts to strengthen our balance sheet using free cash flow to reduce debt.
And we will remain resilient in our commitment to maximizing shareholder value.
Thanks for your time.
And now Id like turn the call over to Paul to provide more details on our operating results.
Paul? Thanks Keith.
Hello everybody.
Obviously were not satisfied with performance our operations in the second quarter.
Conditions remain quite challenging in markets throughout the country but as Keith noted were aggressively addressing the issues were seeing in the business and we continue to good progress implementing our long-term strategy throughout our operations.
Lets start with the review of our Las Vegas Locals business.
We saw a modest revenue decline in line with what weve experienced in the first quarter.
Results are below expectations for several reasons.
One factor was lower hold which reduced EBITDA by about $1 million and had a negative impact on revenue as well.
Absent this issue revenues would have been close to flat with the prior year.
We were also affected by two separate rate hikes by the local electric utility earlier this year which impacted EBITDA by an additional $1 million in the second quarter.
But there were positive developments.
We saw growth in hotel revenues across the market and gains in our food and beverage business as well.
The Orleans posted a solid quarter as strong destination business generated top line and EBITDA growth.
Our newly upgraded room product at the Orleans and Gold Coast puts us in a good position to continue building on encouraging trends in our destination and meeting business.
As Keith noted earlier we are actively looking additional opportunities to enhance and reposition our amenities within our current capital budget.
We will be completing a renovation of our meeting space at the Gold Coast later this year and upgrade of our rooms at the Suncoast is scheduled to begin in the coming months.
And we are in various stages of timing for several new restaurants concepts at our Locals properties.
Moving to our downtown Las Vegas business the most significant factor impacting our results was usually low business volumes throughout the downtown area during May and June.
However this dip appears to have been temporary as visitation to our properties has recovered in July.
We continue to outperform our competition during the quarter growing our leading market share by an additional 40% basis points and business from our Hawaiian customer segment remains solid.
Despite temporary softness in the second quarter we remain optimistic about the long-term outlook for the downtown market and we plan to execute on opportunities to selectively reposition our nongaming amenities in this business segment as well.
Next lets discuss our business in the mid-west and south where condition is most challenging in three markets contending with increased capacity Biloxi Shreveport and central Illinois.
These markets accounted for about two-thirds of the EBITDA shortfall in a regional segment.
At our nine other properties our performance was much closer to prior year levels.
Delta Downs remains the strongest performer in the company growing EBITDA by nearly 12% and setting second quarter records for both the revenue and EBITDA.
Blue Chip first class amenities helped to outperform the competition in a challenging market as the property gained 40 basis points in market share.
An EBITDA trends at Kansas Star significantly improved from Q1 to Q2.
This property is now operating at a margin of more than 45% by far with best in our company.
Looking ahead the second phase of our expansion project at Kansas Star remains on time and on budget.
A 150 room hotel expansion is nearly completion which will son double the properties room count.
And with the addition of meeting space and a question room support facility later this year Kansas Star will be an excellent position to generate further growth through enhancement to its nongaming amenities.
We expect to see benefits from the introduction of B Connected at the five peninsula properties as well.
It will take some time to realize the full benefits of this program.
We are confident that B Connected will give us a competitive advantage in these markets operating drive long-term growth and cross property play across our portfolio.
Ill conclude with Borgata which posted a solid performance in the second quarter.
Must attention has been paid to the difficulties of Atlantic City market.
But as our results show the difference between Borgata and its competition could not be clear.
Borgata grew top and bottom line results growing market share by more than 240 basis points.
Our 23% share of gross gaming revenue was the largest second quarter share in Borgatas history.
We also set second quarter market share records for slots tables and poker revenue.
Borgata EBITDA benefited significantly from our recent property tax settlement with the city which was an extremely positive development for the property.
This settlement resulted in an $11.8 million benefit during the quarter and lower property taxes should benefit EBITDA by approximately $6 million a quarter on an ongoing basis.
We saw solid growth in slots and hotel business during the quarter table game revenue rose as well but this is primarily a function of improved goals.
We also continued to solidify our market lead in online gaming.
Since our launch in November of 2013 Borgata has posted a standalone market share of 28.8% and combined with our partners at Party Poker the Borgata network holds a 10 point lead on our nearest competitor.
So to recap conditions remain challenging; however we saw some encouraging developments in our business as well.
Destination business was solid at our Nevada properties as prior enhancements to our amenities paid off with growth in hotel and food and beverage revenues.
We will continue to pursue opportunities to strategically reinvest in our business in positioning the product to appeal to broader groups of customers.
And while our regional business had a difficult quarter the majority of the decline was attributable to just a few markets.
Compared to others in our business our regional operations are much less exposed to increase capacity and as a whole in those regional markets where new competition is not an issue were seeing sequential improvement in year over year trends.
In Atlantic City our confidence in Borgata is unchanged our first in class amenities are driving growth throughout the business and our recent property tax settlement will benefit EBITDA in the quarters ahead.
Borgata has firmly established itself as one of the East Coasts leading entertainment destinations and we believe we will continue to gain market share in the months ahead.
Thanks for your time today and now over to Josh.
Thanks Paul.
Despite weakness in our business in the second quarter we continue to make progress and strengthening our balance sheet.
As noted earlier year to date total debt reduction has been approximately $100 million and we expect this pace of debt reduction to continue for the remainder of the year.
Over the last 18 months we have reduced debt by more than $600 million our quarter end debt and cash balances were provided to you in our earnings release.
In terms of capital expenditures during the quarter we invested $35 million including $8 million at Peninsula and $7 million at Borgata.
Year-to-date capital expenditures have been $54 million.
For the year we expect to spend a $120 million between Boyd and Peninsula and another $25 million at Borgata.
Now for guidance.
Given our results in the second quarter we are taking a more guarded view for the remainder of the year.
More specifically we expect our property level segments to perform in the third and fourth quarters of this year on par with the second half of last year.
For the second half of this year we expect our Las Vegas locals and downtown segments to be even with the second half of last year.
For the Midwest and south segments remember to consider the 9.3 million property tax adjustment that benefited Blue Chip in the fourth quarter of 2013 and will not reoccur in 2014.
After removing that fourth quarter benefits from 2013 this segment should generate third and fourth quarter EBITDA even with the second half of last year.
For Borgata before the estimated property tax benefit of $6 million applicable for each of the third and fourth quarters we expect the property to generate EBITDA even with or slightly better than the second half of last year given the weak fourth quarter for this property last year.
For corporate expense we expect to incur $27 million for the second half of the year.
Given all of this weve updated our guidance for full year EBITDA to a range of $580-600 million.
Finally I will discuss a couple of items that are not included in our guidance related to Borgata.
Borgata has two remaining actions yet to be finalized related to its property tax appeals first we expect to receive a onetime cash benefit of $88 million related to the 2011 through 2013 property tax settlement.
This payment is dependent on the city of Atlantic City issuing bonds upon our receipt this payment will be used to reduce term debt at Borgata.
Additionally our 2009 and 2010 appeal is moving through the legal process recall in October 2013 the tax court ruled in our favor and that ruling is currently being appealed by the city of Atlantic City.
We remain optimistic about Borgatas prospects given its proven ability to compete regionally and potential long term benefit from online gaming and property tax reductions.
Operator that concludes our remarks and were now ready to take any questions.
(Operator Instructions) The first question comes from Joel Simkins of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Keith Josh and Paul I have to ask the question because investors are asking us can you sort of give us your view on some of these shareholder activism out there and if you say no let me move next question? Joel I dont think we have anything to report in particular on that.
So short answer is we have nothing to report.
Okay and in terms of the online gaming business I thought there was helpful color in terms of how that tracking for you so I guess my question if youre the market leader right now in online gaming New Jersey and youre operating at a breakeven probably first assume everybody else it is losing a lot of money.
Like the domestic or like the Atlantic City bricks and mortar business do you think youre going to see some of your peers slow down operations or cease operations potentially in that market is it takes time to build revenue? I think over the course of time that we will see consolidation in the online business.
As like we see on the consolidation and the land-based business how quickly that happens or difficult to estimate so its very early.
This is a product that has only been out there for some eighth months now but I do suspect that consolidation will be occurring probably in the near future.
Okay and one final question now you mentioned some renovation that youre going to move forward at the Orleans.
And I believe Suncoast obviously the convention market and Vegas continues to get better match in those properties together bit of overflow on convention is there any potential sort of impact as you take those hotels under the knife and that conventional business continues to recover? Well I mean I think obviously there is certainly upside for us and thats why we are focused on those investments.
I think weve gotten pretty at being able to renovate hotel rooms meeting space and those things in periods where we can kind of take advantage of lulls in the market.
Those projects tend to move pretty quickly with only a few rooms out of service.
So if indirectly you're asking if we think it did have any impact while thats going on the answer is certainly not.
The next question comes from Carlo Santarelli of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
I just wanted to touch on Borgata a little bit.
Youve mentioned that the property tax benefit in the quarter was 11.8 million so we were to strip that out and look at kind of go through on the incremental 9 million of revenues guys did it looks like it about 33% and you obviously had favorable year-over-year hold both the slot payable site there I guess the question is has the market become a lot more promotional despite some of the closures? Or are you guys doing a little bit more in terms of promoting to gain share? Or is this mainly the drag that were seeing entirely from online kind of coming through? So Carlo I think that if you take the numbers that are actually provided online has included in the revenue numbers.
If you strip out online the revenue up about $2 million or so I believe and I think the EBITDA number is up greater than that its about 17% increase and EBITDA on the land basis by itself.
So we did see some very go through.
I would not say that the environment is overly promoted and its probably about normal.
I think our team there has been in place since we opened the property more than 10 years ago does a great job of knowing when to step on the gas on a promotional environment when to back off and not overspend.
So I think we had a very strong quarter book driven by good revenues and good flow through.
Great thanks Keith thats helpful.
And then quick Josh I know you guys had provided some non-op guidance earlier in the year not going to ask you if you guys were pivot but is anything meaningfully changed as it pertains to D&amp;A preopening any of those things? All of those things should be pretty much on track as it to what we provided yearend.
I appreciate youre not asking me to provide it but I dont have it with me.
The next question comes from Shaun Kelley of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Keith I think in some of your prepared remarks you guys mentioned a little bit about kind of the Atlantic City and how some of the competitors there -- the committed landscape there is changing quite significantly and I was just wondering if you could possibly elaborate a little bit further and just to kind how do you see the landscape playing our? Do you think something closure can benefit Borgata in the short or medium terms or maybe what your experience was after the Atlantic Crop closure? And then just kind of -- do you see how you kind of see this playing out over the next more 18 to 24 months for people? The Borgata ends up benefiting in a couple of different ways.
First of all I think as capacity goes out of a market that has seamless capacity today that it does start to rationalize and promotional environment should settle down.
There are more customers and just less places for them to go so that will work to our advantage.
I think some of those customers will find their way to the Borgata.
Clearly it always has been the premier facility in the areas so I think we will see some pick up from there.
We didnt see a tremendous pickup in business from the closing of the Atlanta club property I think if you look at the numbers you saw a lot of that go to to the other properties in the market but think as we see additional properties close well definitely see some pickup on the revenue side and will definitely benefit from just a more rational promotional environment.
Thanks for that then I guess the other question would be the same region but thereve been a number of headlines more recently about the possibilities of northern New Jersey starting to kind of look at a gaming facility again what are your contacts I mean obviously you guys know as much or more about the market than anyone you know what are your contacts telling you about the possibility there and is that something you worry about or think about at all or do you think its a long shot at this stage.
I think if you were to take longer term beyond the next couple of years I certainly think its a conversation thats out there theres a lot of conversations by the politicians about it and its something were clearly paying attention to because it could have an impact on Atlantic City.
I think the flip side of that is you know Borgata is a very-very strong brand and once again and once again one of the strongest brands in the northeast there.
If something were to happen in northern Jersey I think Borgata will have a very good chance of being able to participate in that given the strength of its brand in the market the strength of our management and the leadership there but I dont think theres anything imminent I dont think were overly concerned that somethings going to happen in the next year or two but as we look further out something certainly could happen.
Got it my last question will just be on CapEx.
You mentioned some of the initiatives you guys are targeting around some of the properties it sounded like [indiscernible] and pretty sure you said that a lot of it is just redeploying or altering kind of capital spend thats already been designated.
Is that true or is there some incremental CapEx you see or envision spending as you lay out your plans for 15 and start to do some of your initiatives on food and beverage and more of the non-gaming stuff that you talked about.
We said here today when we look at those projects and look at the spend we believe it was in the existing capital budget as we go forward it in fact changes that guidance will be provided as we look at the 15 capital budget.
But sitting here today I would not see any real improved spending our CapEx to accomplish those projects we simply have been refocusing those dollars spending a little differently I think spending [indiscernible] give us a higher return and so were confident its within the existing numbers we provided the guidance weve provided.
I was just going to add I think Keiths last point is what may differentiate the answer to your question that is how we spend about spending dollars that we previously allocated to some other property so that at the end of the day instead of perhaps coming at it for just a refurbishment or a upgrade to an existing amenity we may try a totally different approach but not spend any more incremental dollars.
At least thats the plan for now.
Got it and thanks appreciate it.
The next question comes from Felicia Hendricks of Barclays please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon everybody.
Josh just a point of clarification on the EBITDA guidance that you provided in the release the 580-600 million just wondering does that include or exclude the Atlantic City tax benefit from the second quarter and whats left to realize in the second half.
Felicia it includes the 11.8 million that we would have recorded in the second quarter and also includes 6 million in each of the third and fourth quarter that are coming up for the rest of this year.
Okay great perfect.
And then Keith just wanted to get back to Atlantic City and the promotional allowance you said youll spend in this quarter in the first quarter so they were higher in the first half of the year this year versus last year and Im just wondering if some of thats being driven by online and if so Im wondering what that promotional allowance should look like excluding the online expense.
Im not just trying to be tricky to find out what youre spending online Im just trying to figure out because you said obviously you guys have done so well there and you have competitors leaving the market so Im just trying to think rational Im trying to figure out why the promotional allowances will be higher year over year.
So I think you actually didnt answer the question it is online and that is why it is driven higher were not kind of breaking those numbers out but the increase is clearly related to online.
Okay so just excluding that we should assume that at Borgata the promotional allowances are lower year over year.
I would think of them as flat not as lower.
Okay so with the competition kind of diminution there would expect those to decline through the rest of the year?  Well I would say that the promotional environment should be rationalized.
Where we spend that money whether it shows up a promotional allowance or whether it shows up another marketing costs or giveaways.
I mean how incent and how we speak to customer shows up a number different line items so I cant see its going to open any one line item.
But were clearly specking of the overall promotional environment it will be rationalized as a result of those closure.
So I wouldnt just focus on that one line item.
As Keith talked about right he compared Borgata to the markets in the northeast that obviously we have full information on.
And I think you have to start to think about Borgata in that context.
So when you look at promotional activity or marketing expense for Borgata its competing against a much larger set including all the states around it.
So thats why we are starting to get those sorts of numbers and its doing quite well in that competitive group.
And then either Keith or Paul just my final question is obviously if challenges in the quarter in Id say is a little [indiscernible] but you get a lot of intonation there in particular some of the adjustments to EBITDA and to revenues that you made your revenues year-over-year.
So just wondering you spent a lot of time over the past year or so talking about your strategy with Penny Lane and B Connected and I am just wondering to what extent those programs have to somewhat offset what kind of then in even weaker quarter? Well I mean its always hard to answer that question I am certainly glad we executed on those different programs both here and Las Vegas as well as throughout the country with really only a couple of markets left to go on the Peninsula side and thats all good stuff thats giving us a lot to talk to our customers about and its given us a differentiating factor.
I mean look the facts are that we see the numbers that posted out in Nevada the locals market however you measure and however you group them is slightly down year-over-year in gaming revenue.
And that is just a challenge to the business there are some competitive threats within Las Vegas that we have talked about up to the casual player and I think the bigger players in the market have done well given the dynamic but it is just complicated market that is out there.
And Josh on the 600 620 the prior EBITDA guidance that did not include the tax property tax benefit in the Atlantic City right? Thats correct it did not.
(Operator Instructions).
The next question comes from Thomas Allen of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
On [indiscernible] gauge 3 for Northern Illinois properties its sort of a lot of your EBTIDA short fall.
You guys have talked about increased capacity.
Can you just give us a little more detail there where is the increased capacity coming from? I mean we know Margaritaville but it seems like that was lapping this quarter.
So can you just give some more color there? Margaritaville in Shreveport did lap at the very end of this quarter it opened in the middle of June of last year.
So as far as Shreveport competitive set is concerned the third quarter will be a first apples-to-apples comparison.
In Biloxi there has been a significant amount of gaming expansion in the State of Alabama on the North American side.
And our property VIP intensive focus on destination oriented play.
There is no question about that.
Our reach tends to be to the East and just with more capacity and more products in those regions it certainly adds the cost of doing business in that part of the world.
And that opened up this earlier this year; its when there was a mid expansion on the Middle American side in Alabama Central and Southern Alabama in particular.
And then lastly the Central Illinois I referenced for us thats the area I mean everybody has been following the expansion of effectively slot machines at VLTs in the State of Illinois now some 17 000 plus units at bars and taverns really well beyond anybodys expectations of where this would go and the types of restrictions that would be put on the ability to have these types of units.
And it is not ending.
I mean its surprising to us every month there seems to be another 1 000 or so units that goes into that market which by the way excluded Cook County because Cook County opted out of the expansion as compared to others.
So its just another casual alternative closer to markets because its just down the street from everybody with really no controls from a responsible gaming perspective and non controls for marketing because its just a whole separate set of rules that those operators are allowed to participate with.
And then my follow up question high level as we think about guidance.
In the first half your EBITDA declined around 6% and now you are guiding to flat EBITDA growth in the second half.
It seems -- I mean thats a one off saying for example the $9 million property tax benefit in 4Q 13 is offset by the Borgata more or less offset by the Borgata adjustment in the second half of 14.
What gives you confidence just given the current revenue trends that things can be flat? I think some of us thought that your guidance seemed not the best in last quarter and it seems like you cut it a lot but still it seems when other people other operator talking about current trends they are still kind of seeing down revenue trends? Thanks.
Sure Thomas I will try to take a shot at that.
So basically I think the way we thought about the guidance and the way our conversations have been were in the context of what happen year-over-year in the second half of last year.
We were surprised by the weakness in our business in the second half of last year and we think we did it largely to really two months September and December.
And we felt like as we came into the year we had with while we have weather impacts both in Q1 of this year as well as late last year was very difficult to kind of figure out where the consumer was.
And our perspective was look consumers generally stable we feel like we can grow year-over-year.
And our guidance now reflect kind of what weve seen in the second quarter continuation of those trends in the second quarter would put us how towards the low end of the guidance but will give us some comfort to be flat into large declines that we saw in late last year I mean in September of last year our regional businesses were down over 20% in EBITDA and December they were down another 25%.
So kind of middle of the range just to assume that we do own pull off with that level of performance in the second half of the year.
And so thats how we kind of thought about it and weve also have some general benefit of whats going on more recently as well.
So those are the counter factors that we consider as we adjusted our guidance.
The next question comes from Chad Beynon of Macquarie.
Please go ahead Mr.
Beynon.
Outside of the weakness from the cash one retail player could you talk broadly about what youre seeing from some of your co-players whether it be on trips or spin per trip in the second quarter? Sure.
I think in every market it might be slight different but overall for our better player both their frequency which means the number of times they come from as well as theres spent per visit are flat year-over-year which is really a positive statement from where weve been.
Okay.
Thanks.
And are there any other regions in your portfolio where you are seeking lower property taxes that you can talk about right now that could also be a list in future margins going forward? Yes.
The one that is going through in a few process now is in Kansas so theres opportunity there we dont necessarily expect any of that will be this year and frankly may not even be next year but there is a process going on in Kansas.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then lastly would it be connected launch your principal properties how do you talk about the match duration or evolution of the program kind of how long it takes to drive whether it be overlap play or higher visits maybe some anecdotes when they rolled it out at your programs over the past 12 months? Sure I mean we see and frankly have seen sort of immediate change in cross property play simply because you make it a lot easier for flock to play we then have to go back and bicep it because some of that is simply a person who would have player club cards at both properties if you will they now has one and so they fully starts to deconsolidated once we look at that and make those adjustments we slowly up invest and play well typically happens and why it takes a little bit longer is that obviously certain of our properties whether they are in Las Vegas or in the Gulf Coast or even in the North tend to be account special occasion types properties for flocks that leave throughout the country.
And flock do tend to consolidate their play and built plates in order to be able to transport with them for vacations and other advance or whether they are meeting or conventions or anything else and thats we start to see a longer term affect when we announced rationale affect to the program.
And the last question for today comes from John Maxwell of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Josh the $88 million the Atlantic that you said is dependent on the reinsuring bonds any timetable when thats expected to concern happening any concern on your part that they wont be able to pay you back? We dont have any concern that they wont pay us back.
I think the agreement contemplates area scenarios if that were to happen but the timeframe is generally by kind of prior to year end.
Okay.
It doesnt it sound like Atlantic City waits for all of these property tax appeal the one that youre appealing on your rebate is as well as other properties to do it all in one bond issue they are going to do with it sounds like they could be doing a piece meal.
They typically go to market in the fall for their cities needs and do that theyre just going to put this in with their normal bit of bonding issues that they do it in the fall and so its like the fall is kind of the timing that they step up for this so.
This concludes our question and answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Josh Hirsberg for any closing remarks.
Thank you Andrew and thanks to each of you on this call today.
And if you have any follow-up questions were certainly available.
Thanks again.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending todays presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Boyd Gaming Third Quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
(Operator Instructions).
At this time I'd like to turn the conference call over to Mr.
Josh Hirsberg Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer.
Sir please go ahead.
Thank you Jamie.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our third quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call this afternoon is Keith Smith our President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our comments today will include statements relating to our estimated future results and other market business and property trends that are forward-looking statements within the private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of today's date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those noted in our earnings release our periodic reports and our filings with the SEC.
During our call today we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
For a complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the investor section of our web site at boydgaming.com.
We do not provide a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures due to our inability to project special charges and certain expenses.
Finally as a reminder today's conference call is also being webcast live on our website at boydgaming.com.
And will be available for replay on the Investor Relations section of our web site shortly after the completion of the call.
I'd now like the turn the call over to Keith.
Thanks Josh.
Good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our third quarter earnings call.
The third quarter was a solid quarter for our company.
On an overall basis we reported EBITDA growth of more than 5% during the quarter as operating margins improved in all five of our business segments.
This performance was the direct result of actions we have been taking to remove cost from the business and improve our operating efficiency and it clearly shows our ability to generate EBITDA growth even in a relatively flat revenue environment.
Our Las Vegas Locals region delivered a 6.5% EBITDA gain on slightly higher revenues as operating margins improved more than 100 basis points.
This marks the sixth quarter out of the last seven that weve achieved positive EBITDA comparisons in our Locals business.
While weve yet to see consistent gaming revenue growth in the Locals market the fundamentals of the Southern Nevada economy continue to strengthen and were clearly seeing increased demand for our non-gaming amenities.
Our recently upgraded hotel products at Gold Coast and The Orleans performed particularly well during the quarter driving revenue and EBITDA growth at these properties.
We recognize that consumers are spending their discretionary dollars differently today and that demand for non-gaming amenities is increasing.
As we've noted previously we are now targeting some of our capital spending to take advantage of that trend.
I will outline our first steps in that initiative in a few moments.
Moving to our Downtown Las Vegas business we generated 14% EBITDA growth on modestly higher revenues.
Operating efficiencies are allowing us to make the most of our revenue growth as margins improved more than 130 basis points.
As Downtown's largest multi-property operator were seeing clear benefits from the ongoing revitalization of Fremont Street and Downtown.
Strong pedestrian traffic along the Fremont Street Experience and the new Zip Line attraction are generating additional visitation and more excitement for the entire Downtown Las Vegas market.
We also benefited from increased visitation for Hawaiian customer base during the quarter.
This was another solid quarter for our Downtown segment and we remain optimistic about the prospect for this business.
Moving to our regional operations we continue to focus on improving efficiencies as we increased our overall operating margins by more than 60 basis points in the combined Midwest and South and Peninsula segments during the third quarter.
These operating improvements were broad based as margins were up at nine out of 12 of our regional properties and while revenues remain down at many of these properties the year-over-year gap is narrowing and we are seeing the initial signs of stabilization in most markets.
Let's walk through a few of these markets in a bit more detail.
First Delta Downs continued to fire on all cylinders producing record third quarter EBITDA in beating its previous third quarter EBITDA record by more than 10% and it grew market share.
The property set third quarter records for coin-in and net gain revenue as well.
A new competitor will be entering the Lake Charles market toward the end of this year.
However Delta Downs is a differentiated product serving a distinctly different customer.
Additionally this is a healthy gaming market and we believe the new property should significantly grow the market.
So while there will be an impact from this new competitor we remain confident about the long term outlook for Delta Downs.
In Biloxi the IP showed improved results generating year-over-year EBITDA growth of nearly 6%.
The IP team is doing an excellent job keeping costs under control and improving operating margins by 170 basis points; and Blue Chip had a solid quarter highlighted by market share growth in each month.
In fact Blue Chip was the only northwest Indiana casino to report year-over-year visitation growth with admissions up more than 5%.
Summer is the peak tourist season and our prior investments in expanding Blue Chip's hotel capacity and non-gaming amenities helped drive solid visitation growth in the third quarter.
Further south conditions do remain challenging at Par-a-Dice.
There are now 18 000 video slots in bars taverns restaurants and other businesses in throughout the state of Illinois accounting for $60 million a month in gaming revenue.
Our Diamond Jo Dubuque property in Iowa is also being impacted by this expansion.
In the Peninsula segment about half the revenue in EBITDA shortfall came in Kansas Star where EBITDA was down 5% on lower revenues.
Despite the revenue decline the property kept costs under control improving operating margins by more than 60 basis points to 43%.
(Indiscernible) is up slightly but we saw declines in frequency in the local market particularly among casual players.
While weve not been pleased with the results of this property to date Kansas Star is a first-in-class asset with a great team.
Our refined marketing strategies aimed at growing visitation are beginning to have a positive effect as a result at Kansas Star have shown improvements in the last several months.
Finally let's review Atlantic City where Borgata turned in yet another strong performance with both revenue growth and improved EBITDA margins excluding property tax-related benefits EBITDA rose $2.2 million up more than 4% year-over-year.
The recent property tax settlement with Atlantic City added an additional $8.1 million to EBITDA.
Borgata's results for the quarter reflect gains throughout the business.
On the casino floor we grew slot win and we increased our overall gaming market share by 260 basis points to 24% Our hotel business was also strong driven by higher occupancy and cash rates.
These trends actually started in July and August well before the recent round of closures and while it appears that many customers of the recently closed properties have left the Atlantic City market Borgata has successfully added many new customers to its database over the last couple of months.
Weve also seen some additional lift in our meeting and convention business our cash hotel bookings room rates and occupancy since early September.
Moving to the online operation operations Borgata's online gaming business was profitable throughout the third quarter.
We expect to see further improvement in the fourth quarter as online business should pick up during the colder winter months.
Looking nationwide our third quarter operating performance shows that we are making continued progress executing on our strategies to reduce our cost structure improve flow-through and deliver profitable growth.
In addition to our operating activities were also focused on three key areas.
First continued aggressive reduction of our debt.
Next targeted deployment of capital to increase the appeal and productivity of our portfolio and lastly thoughtfully ensuring that our business is best positioned to maximize long term shareholder value.
Let me provide some additional detail in each of these areas.
First our balance sheet I am pleased to report we have paid down an additional $70 million in debt during the quarter bringing total debt reduction to more than $165 million so far this year.
We remain solidly on track to repay approximately $200 million in debt in 2014.
This highlights our ability to generate levels of free cash flow and represent a free cash flow yield to stockholders of approximately 18%.
Strengthening our balance sheet is an important part of our strategy and we will continue to apply the same focus and discipline to this effort in the quarters ahead.
Second we are pursuing opportunities to deploy a portion of our capital expenditure budget toward enhancing our product offerings to be more compelling and attractive to a broader range of customers.
Consumer spending patterns have shifted over the last several years and it is imperative that we remain competitive by adjusting our products.
So they're well positioned to grow.
To take advantage of this opportunity were investing in projects aimed at enhancing and repositioning certain amenities at our properties across the country.
Some examples of these projects include a new sports bar and grill we opened this week at the Suncoast.
This new amenity provides guests with a unique sports viewing experience with nearly 30 LED screens throughout the facility.
And this will not be the only project at the Suncoast as we plan to further revamp their food and beverage product in the coming months.
And in December we will commence work on an upgraded nearly 400 hotel rooms at the property.
Next year at the Orleans we will begin the repositioning of its food and beverage offerings and we will complete the final phase of the successful hotel room remodel that began earlier this year.
We are planning enhancements to our offerings in Downtown Las Vegas as well.
Starting with a new Asian restaurant will open at the California in December.
Outside of Nevada at Evangeline Downs we see an opportunity to generate incremental growth by revamping our food and beverage offerings.
Design work on these projects is now underway and we have planned to commence construction in the first quarter of next year.
At the IP work has begun on the final stage of an upgraded enhancement of our hotel product.
We will complete the remodel of more than 300 hotels in January of 2015 followed by more than 50 suites in the second quarter.
At the Kansas Star we will complete the expansion of the property by the end of the year adding meeting space and equestrian support facilities that should help driving additional visitation in 2015.
The initiative to enhance and reposition our amenities will not be a one-year project but part of a multi-year effort to ensure our properties are well positioned to compete into the future.
Nationwide we will pursue these projects in a thoughtful targeted and efficient manner and we will only invest where we believe we can generate a positive return on our investments.
We'll invest in growth but we will not lose our focus on deleveraging the balance sheet.
Finally we are always working to ensure that our portfolio and business structure are best fit to position our company for the future.
Over the last several years weve significantly expanded our operations.
We now operate 22 properties in eight states serving 15 distinct markets and competitive conditions in some of those markets have changed considerably over the years.
Were carefully reviewing our current portfolio to ensure that each asset fits into our current growth strategy.
We will consider making adjustments to our portfolio if we feel it will improve our overall profile going forward.
We remain open to expanding our portfolio through development opportunities and acquisitions of businesses we believe will create value to our company and our shareholders.
As we look to refine and enhance our portfolio we're also taking a careful look at our existing structure.
As part of this process we together with our Board have been working with our financial and legal advisers Greenhill &amp; Company and Morrison and Foerster to make sure we are best positioned to increase shareholder value over the long term including potentially through the formation of a REIT.
We have been undertaking a thorough evaluation of the possibility of forming a REIT with our real estate assets taking into consideration the associated financial accounting tax and legal implications.
So far this year we have invested more than $3 million in this process.
While we still have extensive analysis to conduct initial indications would suggest the forming a REIT is achievable and attractive under certain circumstances.
However there are various aspects of our capital structure that make potential value creation through a REIT challenging at this time.
These include our leverage levels today breakage costs and finding the right way to maximize the value of our preexisting NOLs.
The evaluation of whether to form a REIT takes a considerable amount of time and thoughtful consideration so this will not be a quick process.
In the meantime we'll continue to execute the strategic plans I outlined earlier.
We cannot stress enough the complex nature of the REIT formation and the many structural operational and financial challenges that REIT formation presents especially for a company with our capital structure.
As a result there is no assurance that we will ultimately decide to form a REIT.
We do not expect to provide updates on this process or our ongoing evaluation unless or until our Board has approved a specific transaction or otherwise deems that additional disclosures are appropriate or necessary.
Accordingly we will not be in a position to provide further information or comments about the REIT on this call.
So to recap this is an active time for our company as we pursue a number of strategic initiatives.
Were finding ways to further improve our operational performance and our flow-through potential.
We continue to aggressively pay down debt and strengthen our balance sheets.
We're enhancing our properties across the country with a particular focus on strengthening non-gaming amenities.
We're reviewing our portfolio of assets and will make adjustments as necessary and parallel with these initiatives were evaluating the best way to increase shareholder value including the possibility of forming a REIT.
Thank you for your time today.
I'll turn the call over to Josh.
Josh? Thanks Keith.
During the third quarter we continued to make progress in strengthening our balance sheet.
Total debt reduction year-to-date has been over $165 million and since the beginning of 2013 weve reduced debt by nearly $700 million.
Our quarter end debt and cash balances were provided to you in our earnings release.
In terms of capital expenditures during the quarter we invested $41 million including $9 million at Peninsula and $3 million at Borgata.
Year-to-date capital expenditures have been $95 million.
For the year we expect to spend approximately $110 million at Boyd and Peninsula and $25 million at Borgata.
As many of you may know MGM was recently relicensed in New Jersey.
The trust holding MGM's 50% interest in Borgata was dissolved on September 30th resulting in our accounting treatment for Borgata changing as of that date.
We'll now account for Borgata as an equity investment.
The deconsolidation impacts our balance sheet as of the end of the third quarter and moving forward beginning with the fourth quarter on our income statement.
We will account for our interest in Borgata using the equity method of accounting.
This change has no economic impact on our operating results though it obviously affects the presentation of those results.
Weve provided an additional exhibit to the Form 8-K furnished earlier today with this quarter's earnings release that presents on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis.
Our quarterly results for this year and last year on a pro forma basis with Borgata accounted for under the equity method.
The GAAP presentation is consistent with our accounting for Borgata prior to the first quarter 2010 when MGM's interest was placed in the divestiture trust and we began consolidating Borgata in our financial results.
The non-GAAP presentation includes our 50% share of Borgata's EBITDA and two additional reporting line items below EBITDA to capture items such as depreciation free opening taxes and interest expense.
In terms of guidance I'll bridge the gap between our previously provided full year guidance to the results we expect on a full year basis taking into consideration this accounting change for Borgata.
In terms of guidance assuming there had been no accounting change for Borgata we are narrowing our full year EBITDA guidance to the high end of the previously provided range.
On this basis EBITDA is expected to range from $590 million to $600 million for full year 2014.
After consideration of the Borgata change in accounting for the fourth quarter consistent with how we will report EBITDA from a full year basis that is including all of Borgata's EBITDA for the first three quarters and 50% of Borgata's EBITDA for the fourth quarter we expect full year EBITDA to range from $576 million to $586 million.
This guidance considers current trends in our business certain nonrecurring items that occurred in the fourth quarter last year and the expected introduction of a new competitor in Lake Charles later this year.
Weve also assumed more normal weather than what the entire country experienced last year in the fourth quarter and a normal whole percentage of Borgata that negatively impacted that property's fourth quarter performance last year.
Specifically in our Downtown segment in the fourth quarter last year there were non-recurring favorable tax items totaling approximately $2 million that will not benefit the downtown segment in the fourth quarter this year.
For the Midwest and South segments remember to consider the $9.3 million property tax adjustment that benefited Blue Chip in the fourth quarter of 2013 that will not recur in 2014.
In addition as was mentioned we expect a new competitor to open in the Lake Charles market in December.
We previously had not included in 2014 any impact as a result of this supply increase.
As you know the Lake Charles market is a healthy gaming market and we expect the new supply to grow the market.
However as Keith mentioned we do expect an impact to our Delta Downs property.
For the Peninsula segment we expect the year-over-year EBITDA trends of the third quarter to continue in the fourth quarter and at Borgata the fourth quarter will benefit from approximately $7 million of property tax reductions as a result of the settlement reached earlier this year with the city of Atlantic City.
That was not reflected in the fourth quarter last year.
Finally a couple of items related to Borgata that are not included in our guidance.
Borgata has two remaining actions yet to be finalized related to its property tax appeals.
First we expect Borgata to receive a onetime cash benefit of approximately $88 million related to the 2011 through 2013 property tax settlement.
This payment is dependent on the city of Atlantic City issuing bonds.
Upon receipt this payment will be used to reduce debt at Borgata.
Additionally Borgata's 2009 and 2010 property tax appeal is moving through the legal process.
Recall in October 2013 the tax court ruled in Borgata's favor and that ruling is currently being appealed by the city of Atlantic City.
In conclusion we had a solid quarter.
In the Las Vegas Locals and Downtown markets we saw modest revenue growth lead to solid EBITDA growth and margin improvements.
While we continue to experience revenue declines in the regional markets there are initial signs of stabilization in most of our markets and we were able to operate more efficiently and improve margins in nearly all of the segment and at Borgata we benefited from a fundamentally strong business as well as lower property taxes.
With that Jamie that concludes our remarks and we are now ready to take any questions.
Keith you've made in the  I believe it was in your release in your prepared remarks that you're starting to see signs of stabilization.
Weve also heard that from some of the other regional operators.
I was just wondering from your perspective if you could flush that out a bit.
And is that more about the anniversary of tough comps or are you seeing a change in customer trends? Well the thing I noted in my comments it's a little bit of you know less bad.
The gap is narrowing so the revenues are still down at many of the properties.
But it is you know less of a decline.
But I think it's combination of were seeing some better customer trends.
But we also had tough comps last year.
I think at this point Felicia; it's still a little bit more of the same just continuing to get maybe just less bad with the passage of time.
Not sure if that helps.
That's kind of how we feel about the business right now.
And is that across all of your markets or are there some markets that are looking less bad or time than others? No.
I think (indiscernible) the regional markets are not all created equal.
Delta Downs as I said had a great performance with records.
The Blue Chip market was very strong.
Par-a-Dice is being impacted by competition.
The Shreveport market is a tougher market than the Dubuque Iowa market.
So they are all somewhat different.
It's really tough to paint it with a broad brush.
My next question on the Las Vegas Locals market you said you saw growth mostly to non-gaming.
Can you discuss the year-over-year performance of gaming in the quarter? Should we just assume that all of the growth was due to non-gaming and perhaps gaming was down year-over-year? You should assume all the growth came through the non-gaming areas.
That's where we're seeing the pick-up in the business you know game revenue is flattish.
Okay.
And we've talked before about this you know just related to the additional construction work that's starting to get underway on the strip that's planned.
Are you seeing any early signs of pick up there as you look forward? We haven't yet.
But I think a lot of the larger projects haven't really begun to staff up if you will.
And so you have the Resorts World project by (indiscernible) on the strip should add a tremendous number of workers that hasn't really started yet.
A number of the other projects haven't really kicked off yet construction workers in town generally are up off of the kind of the bottom where we were at or up off of the trial.
But we haven't seen that translate into increased business just yet for us.
And to add to that a little bit I think there is definitely not a enough construction workers for the amount of construction that is on the kind of board to be built or to start.
So I think we're just starting to see the traction of some of that and I think really it goes to a belief that kind of the reduction in employment that we've seen over time really has been more from either folks not looking for jobs any longer or people finding you know working at multiple jobs through part-time employment.
And what we at least  or envision through the construction that is kind of only on the upswing here is that those will be creating kind of full-time jobs either through the construction employment themselves or through the buildings that they're building and other businesses that are being created.
So I think we're a little bit more optimistic about what that could mean for our market over time.
But again to kind of ground it is we're not seeing that as yet.
Okay and just finally to ask a clarification.
I think you said that Atlantic  maybe I misunderstood you but Atlantic City margins were up year-over-year.
But if we adjust for that tax benefit we see them flat year-over-year? I don't  I haven't done it that way.
We can do it real quick and see if you've done it that could be true.
I would be a little bit surprised at that but let us do the math and get back to you on that.
It's just 56.9 minus 8.1 right? Minus 9.3.
Oh 9.3.
Okay that will make it even worse.
Okay yes.
We could talk about that offline.
That would be great.
Thank you.
Oh wait wait.
Wait no.
It's 8.1.
It says right here in the release.
8.1 that's right.
9.3 is at Blue Chip so yes.
Yes because if you back out the 8.1 then you know the margins were lower than what we would have expected.
I'm just wondering did you have some sort of pick-up on marketing in the online side.
What would have been driving that? I don't know that.
I'll have to look into that and get back to you.
I know that there has been a little bit of promotional increase toward the end of the quarter as we ran marketing to try to drive play from some of the closures.
But I don't think that that would have been that significant to affect it and then also the online business last year wasn't there versus this year.
So that was about $6 million  I think youve to factor in or think how the online business affected that as well.
But I'll look into it and we can handle that offline.
So I just wanted to ask I guess briefly maybe to follow-up on Atlantic City.
Obviously plenty of headlines about all of the closures there so just give us maybe a little bit more of a characterization of what you saw in the quarter were you able to pick off some business and is there some competitive strategy to actually maybe gain further share in the future? Well once again we  early in the quarter we began to see pick-ups in room bookings and meeting convention business.
Some of our night life business was picking up and I think in September we started maybe a more active approach to try to attract some of those customers who are in database we have had some success.
Borgata has been in the market for a long time and so the customers know our product.
They know it's there and I think it's a balance between how much we pay to get those customers in the door and so we have gained some traction.
Weve gained some customers but we're not going to overspend to do it.
And once again weve seen good increases in hotel bookings and rates and meeting and convention business as a result of the closures.
And my other question and I appreciate you guys certainly don't want to get into the details on the REIT but since all of the disclosure on that was new and incremental I guess a lot of people are probably wondering.
Obviously if you guys decide to do something we will hear.
But if you guys kind of evaluate and decide to step to the sidelines is that something you would update us on at the time that it's appropriate or at the time that you've concluded your analysis? Or is that unlikely? I think the best way to think about that Shaun is you would see us probably moving in a different direction and by the fall you would know at that point.
So I don't think specifically we would say yes or no at any point in time unless it became so obvious that we weren't going to do it but I don't think we can provide much more color at that point than at this point.
Just on Atlantic City obviously we've seen a couple closures.
Taj Mahal clearly one that's rumored right now to be going through some struggles and potentially closing.
Of the stuff that's closed so far I know acknowledging a lot of them aren't necessarily the Borgata customer but do you think from some of the more recent closings and some of the more potential future closings you could start to see a little bit more of that flow in your property? Well we certainly hope so.
Once again it has to come to us at the right price.
We don't want to pay too much for it.
Look we would rather see these properties stay open and have a more robust operating environment.
If they close and those customers aren't available we'll certainly try and attract them to the Borgata.
I don't know that I have anything else to add to that.
Then just on the REIT comments and I'm sensitive to the fact that you guys don't want to divulge much but If I could ask a two part question.
One you mentioned the NOLs being part of the complication.
I'm wondering if through your due diligence so far you've found any concrete determination as to whether or not those NOLs would be transferable to the outgo business and the second part of that question would be Josh you mentioned going in a different direction.
And it would be obvious.
I guess what are some of the other alternatives out there that maybe we are not thinking and is that something along the lines of acquisitions etcetera? Look I appreciate the question but as I did say in it my comments earlier we are really not in a position to provide any further information on the REIT topic.
We said what we were going to say in our comments and we'll leave it at that.
Congrats on the quarter and excited to hear more about the REIT potential REIT.
So just on your guidance just want to understand how did  because you are not giving quarterly guidance any more.
I mean how did 3Q compare to your internal models? Well I would say that our guidance typically reflects kind of how middle of the road  how we think the business is going to perform and we're using kind of our best kind of information.
Weve from our existing operations folks and kind of saying that's kind of the middle of the fairway.
So the fact that we performed kind of in the middle of the range that would be generally where we would expect our business to be.
If it we're above that then obviously it's to the upside and if we missed that then it's down on the lower end of that range.
So I think we purely take what the best information weve and set the guidance around that.
There is not much more science to it than that and there is not any kind of games that we try to play.
It's really just based upon what we're seeing in the business and what our own internal models are showing us.
I don't know if that helps.
But that's how we do it.
So we can imply because you raised your guidance to the high end of the range the third quarter came in at the high end of your range and you extrapolated that into the fourth quarter and so that's my first question.
And then second part of this question is you guys previously talked about  you called out weakness in September and December last year as being easy comps.
Now that we've gone through September how did that perform based on this easy comp and then how are you thinking about December now? Yes what I would say is September in my own view is that September wasn't as strong as we would have expected it to be relative to how weak it was in the prior year.
And to me that's kind of what the basis of less bad and less bad kind of continues.
I think December was very weak last year and so given what we've seen for September in that  it wasn't as strong relative to the weak September that we had last year.
I would say that we're expecting an easy comp but not to do as well year-over-year as maybe we would have expected maybe in the first half of the year.
So it's just more of the same not so much easy comps that are driving our performance in relation to prior year.
We are not kind of taking it to the bank that that's going to be an easy kind of level of performance basically.
And then two questions on AC and then I'm done.
So Rebel closed and I guess I read that it was re-bought.
What do you think your chances are that property opens again? And if it did how would it affect you and the market? And then any thoughts around Poker Star potentially entering the online space? Thanks.
I think with respect to Rebel reopening you probably have as much information as we have.
If it reopens it just brings more customers I think into the market.
I think what we have seen recently is some of these other properties have closed that the customers have left the market.
So they're having more rooms in the market and more people in the market is a positive and we'll do fine.
With respect to Poker Stars once again we don't have any insight or any knowledge.
As we built the model to operate online gaming in New Jersey we just assumed they would be involved at some point in time.
So that's the ultimate decision by the New Jersey regulators then that's it.
We'll be prepared to deal with it.
Just two questions Felicia asked earlier about trends and whether you were seeing a broad improvement.
I just was wondering whether the  or somewhat of an improvement I'm sorry.
Can you tell us whether it's visitation spend per visit? What kind of characteristics are you seeing there? And then second I was intrigued by some of your comments about some of the modest CapEx programs to enhance the existing casinos and you said you were looking for a positive return.
When you evaluate those projects are you looking at per  let's say the restaurant's return in and of itself or what it's going to do to the overall property or any other amenity that you plan on having? Well with respect to your second question in the capital investments I think it's like any project.
You look for the overall return.
Now if it we are upgrading a restaurant we'll look for both the impact that we think that new restaurant will have whether it's increasing covers increasing average check increasing profitability.
We are drawing new people new customers customers who aren't there today into the building and potentially having some benefit in the casino.
It's kind of an all-in or a total view of the worth of that customer who will come into the building.
With respect to kind of the trends that we're seeing I think my last comment to Felicia which is these regional markets aren't all created equal you see different trends in each of the markets.
It's a little hard to take a brush and say it's frequency its visitation it's spend.
It's a little bit different given the dynamics in each of the markets whether it's Illinois or Indiana or Delta Downs where what's in the business is very robust or Dubuque or Worth Iowa where it's kind of flatter.
So it's really hard to provide a singular explanation to visitations up visitations down.
It is somewhat different in each of those individual areasand I don't have all the details for every property in front of me.
So I'm not in a position to actually go through it.
Okay and just because you have to ask a REIT question.
Are will you have incremental expense associated with looking at this REIT idea over the next year or two? Well I guess I would challenge you on whether or not you have to ask a REIT question.
I don't think you have to ask a REIT question.
I just want to be one of the gang.
The thing is I'm going to have to provide you my standard answer which is that we're not in a position to provide you any additional information other than what we gave in our prepared comments.
But thanks for the asking.
I was just wondering in term its of operations with the lower gas prices mostly subsequent to the quarter.
Have you seen an additional  let's day a benefit on ops? Historically in our business we would see fairly quick reactions to both increases and decreases in gas pricesand sometimes other commodity prices.
But more recently and in more recent years it seems to be much more transitory and people don't react either way.
When they go up they don't seem to react too much and when it goes down they don't seem so react.
Obviously it makes the consumer a little healthier.
Weve not seen any sort of short term pickup recently because of the decline in gas prices.
For my next question I will not use the word REIT.
I will say as you evaluate strategic alternatives would you say that that evaluation would prevent you from potentially looking at your callable [ph] debt and refinancing that? I don't think so.
I think we would  one is a little bit kind of  we're going to try to take advantage of opportunities as they present themselves.
So as we kind of develop a view of one strategic alternative versus another in the context of opportunities in the capital markets.
I think we will try to take advantage of those.
So if it makes sense economically for us and a strategic alternative is a little uncertain or we don't know the timing of it or the details of it we are going to try to execute on that financing.
Okay.
I guess related to that.
Has Atlantic City said when they're going to issue the bond to fund your tax refund? I would say that we expect it to occur by year-end and that's about all we know at this point.
Obviously it's dependent on them to being able to access the markets that they want.
But everything we understand indirectly is that it should all be done by year-end.
And just one final one which I will reference a REIT.
As you let's say look at your Gantt chart in the evaluation is it measured in weeks or months? Keith has to answer that question.
At the risk of repeating myself we are really not providing any additional information.
Okay.
Just a couple of quick ones Keith you've talked a little bit about the energy.
But I'm just wondering at Delta Downs you mentioned the new competitor.
But is there any concern that lower energy prices in that region affects the local economy or is that too early to tell? I would say it's too early to tell.
It is very very robust area.
Down there weather is  the oil drilling that was occurring offshore all the facilities on shore the repair shops whether it's the LNG product in Lake Charles and all of the production facilities.
I mean there are tens of billions of dollars' worth of projects going on in Lake Charles there from construction standpoint to deal with the energy infrastructure.
So I think short term decreases in oil prices or gas prices really are transitory and it's not going to have a long term effect on that economy down there.
We certainly are paying attention to it but it's probably just more short term related.
Okay and then just curious on the IP.
It sounds like there was a couple of properties in that market that completed big renovations.
But it sound like the IP held up pretty well.
Is the market overall in Biloxi getting a little bit better? Is that part of it? No I don't think so.
I think we're finding ways to compete better.
I think the market is flat up maybe just a little bit depending on what month you're looking at it.
It really continues to be a tough market; Golden Nugget has opened a new property down there.
I think we have been able to effectively compete against that.
We really look to compete mainly with the Beau Rivage in terms of that product.
They have the two best products in the market and I think the team down there is just continuing to find ways to operate the facility better.
Not always about driving higher revenues but driving profitable revenues.
Okay and then just finally Josh it sounds like you're going to wait for the Atlantic City tax refund that comes in pays down debt.
Is refinancing the 9 and 7/8ths [ph] is that a decision you and MGM have to make now that they're back in? I assume that that's totally independent of anything you do at the corporate consolidated entity.
That's correct John.
It would be a decision that as managing partner we would recommend.
And discuss with MGM and assuming they approved it we would execute the transaction.
And it largely depends on as you mentioned receiving the funds from settlements and so that really changes the capital structure profile and credit profile of Borgata pretty significantly.
Not only obviously paying down debt is the obvious benefit and then the benefit that we've spoken about more recently in terms of just reduced property taxes overall.
So those two things combined together really kind of set Borgata up very nicely in terms of being able to generate even more free cash flow and just deleverage itself on an accelerated basis.
So that's really kind of the event that we are waiting for and then we'll kind of evaluate where markets are and go from there.
I promise no REIT questions but I'll have to figure a way to work it out into my title.
I guess a couple quick questions.
I guess one Keith Josh you get to talk about the Las Vegas Locals market the overall competitive tone and if you are seeing any sort of divergence across the town east side the west side vice versa.
Would love to get your commentary on what's going on in the market.
No not really.
We all operate in different parts of the valley.
Each of the markets is somewhat different whether on the northwest side where Suncoast property is or the southeast side out where the Sam's Town property is on Boulder Highway.
The demographics are different in each of those markets but they're generally seeing kind of flattish gaming revenue and seeing more growth in non-gaming revenue whether it's in the east side or the west side and in the northwest or southeast.
I would emphasize Joel it's as much as those properties that are close to the strip getting the overflow and having their own convention related business.
Even Sam's Town has a significant number of hotel rooms and the ability to drive non-gaming revenues there.
So it's fairly broad based on a non-gaming side of things and that's really where we talked about in the prepared remarks positioning  trying to position the properties going forward to capture more of that cash revenue that folks are willing to spend.
And one other quick question.
It's been a while since we have heard anything on the tribal agreement you had signed in 2013.
Is there anything new to report there? No it actually just continues to  you've got to work down the path.
These tribal or native gaming opportunities just take a long time to get across the finish line.
We are in the EIS process right now and it's still probably a few years into the future before we look at opening a facility.
But it is on track just long slow process.
Thanks Jamie.
And thanks for everyone dialing in today.
We are obviously available to answer any non-REIT related questions that you may have as follow-ups to the call.
So feel free to reach out to us.
Thanks.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good afternoon.
Welcome to the Boyd Gaming fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
[Operator instructions.] At this time I'd like to turn the conference call over to Mr.
Josh Hirsberg Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer.
Sir please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call this afternoon is Keith Smith our President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our comments today will include statements relating to our estimated future results and other market business and property trends and information that are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of today's date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those noted in our earnings release our periodic reports and our other filings with the SEC.
During our call today we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
For a complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the investor section of our web site at boydgaming.com.
We do not provide a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures due to our inability to project special charges and certain expenses.
Finally as a reminder today's conference call is also being webcast live on our website at boydgaming.com and will be available for replay on the Investor Relations section of our web site shortly after the completion of the call.
I'd now like the turn the call over to Keith.
Thanks Josh.
Good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our fourth quarter earnings conference call.
Im pleased to report that we made meaningful progress throughout our operations in the fourth quarter as every segment of our business achieved EBITDA growth and margin improvement.
We made the most out of our top line gains [during] modest revenue growth into substantial EBITDA gains.
The favorable comparisons created by severe winter weather last year certainly played a role in these results but weather was not the only story.
We saw both gaming and nongaming revenue growth in our Las Vegas Locals business a market that was obviously not affected by weather last year.
And we saw signs of further stabilization in our regional markets as well independent of the benefits of weather.
While falling energy prices and continued job growth and other favorable economic trends throughout the country appear to be having a positive impact on the consumer revenue growth remains modest.
Now lets review segment results in a bit more detail.
As I mentioned a moment ago our Las Vegas Locals business achieved solid results.
Our operational discipline allowed us to leverage a modest revenue growth into a 20% improvement in EBITDA.
This was the strongest year over year growth for our Locals business since before the recession and the first time we achieved gaming revenue growth in 2014.
But the strongest growth came from our hospitality business.
Hotel revenues in our Las Vegas Locals business grew more than 13% in the fourth quarter driven by higher room rates.
Our food and beverage business rose as well.
Through strategic reinvestments in our nongaming amenities including hotel rooms and restaurants we are better able to capitalize on customers evolving spending behaviors generating additional revenue and EBITDA growth in the Locals region.
Downtown Las Vegas was equally encouraging.
After factoring out one-time adjustments last year EBITDA grew about $2 million year over year in our downtown business.
Visitation from our Hawaiian customer base remains strong and we continue to see increased pedestrian traffic throughout the area as new attractions open and expanded and redevelopment progresses in downtown Las Vegas.
Looking outside of Las Vegas we were encouraged by the performance of our regional operations.
The stabilizing trends we saw in the third quarter continued into the fourth quarter and we performed better than expected in markets that were impacted by increased capacity.
Lets touch on a few properties in particular.
First Kansas Star.
On our last call I noted that we were not pleased with our results at this property and that we were taking action to improve our results.
I am pleased to report that we have made solid progress since then.
Both revenue and EBITDA grew at Kansas Star in the fourth quarter as the property improved its operating margins by over 65 basis points to nearly 44%.
We are also seeing solid growth in visitation particularly from customers traveling from longer distances as we are successfully leveraging the recently completed hotel expansion at Kansas Star.
While the property did benefit from favorable weather in December we saw revenue and EBITDA growth throughout the quarter.
These positive trends have continued into January.
This clearly shows that our operational enhancements and refined marketing strategies are paying off.
With the recent completion of our event center weve laid the foundation for future growth at the property.
While we still have more work to do at this property Kansas Star is clearly moving in the right direction.
In the South Delta Downs continues its string of strong performances with a 15% EBITDA gain in the fourth quarter.
We were particularly encouraged that this EBITDA growth continued in December after the opening of the Golden Nugget on Lake Charles.
Delta Downs grew gaming revenues by 2.5% in December the strongest year over year performance of any property in southwest Louisiana.
This growth continued into January with the 4.5% increase in gaming revenues.
This early performance speaks to the depth and strength of the market and our position in the region.
It is also a tribute to the exceptional team we have at Delta Downs and their commitment to building and maintaining strong customer relationships.
While it is still very early both Delta Downs and the overall market have performed well since the opening of the Golden Nugget.
As a result we are cautiously optimistic about the long term performance of this market.
Over at Blue Chip we have maintained our strong momentum from the third quarter.
We outperformed our competition increasing market share by 80 basis points in the fourth quarter and growing admissions by 8%.
Blue Chip is another good example of the growth potential of attractive nongaming amenities.
Our strong nongaming product at Blue Chip including a luxury hotel tower spa unique restaurants and live entertainment is helping drive strong growth in visitation especially from the Chicago area.
Finally lets review Atlantic City.
The Borgata had an exceptional performance in the fourth quarter with substantial top and bottom line growth.
We set all-time quarterly records for market share in every single metric including table win slot win poker and gross gaming revenue.
And we are seeing growth in our nongaming business as well.
Hotel rooms grew nearly 6% in the fourth quarter and we saw solid pickup in our meeting and convention business.
With the decline in available rooms in the market demand for Borgatas room product is growing.
This allowed us to keep the Water Club open for an additional 17 nights this year generating an additional 9 500 occupied room nights for our business.
These results speak to the quality of our team our amenities and the positioning of this asset which is allowing Borgata to continue to grow market share both in Atlantic City and across the broader region.
We also continued to enhance the profitability of our online gaming business generating nearly $2 million of EBITDA during the fourth quarter.
Overall this was a solid quarter for our operations and further demonstrates the effectiveness of our strategy to reduce our operating cost structure improve flow through and strategically deploy capital in nongaming amenities to increase the appeal and productivity of our assets.
Earlier this year as part of our strategy to improve our operating results we restructured our leadership team on the operating side of the business by adding a new regional executive assigning greater operational oversight to all of our regional operating executives creating the position of chief marketing officer and streamlining the reporting process.
And while it is early Im encouraged by the initial results of these changes.
In January we also brought new talent and expertise to our board of directors adding Paul Whetsell and John Bailey to our board.
Paul brings nearly 30 years of hospitality experience to our board while John adds deep legal expertise.
They are exceptional additions to our board and I look forward to working with them in creating long term shareholder value.
One other important way we are growing shareholder value is through the disciplined reduction of debt and we continued to make good progress on this front in the fourth quarter.
For the year we have paid down close to $200 million in debt bringing our two-year total to more than $725 million.
Going forward debt reduction will remain a priority for us and we will continue to identify and execute opportunities to further strengthen our balance sheet.
Were also committed to making smart investments in our business and then increasing the long term appeal and competitiveness of our portfolio.
As I noted earlier nongaming business continues to be an important contributor to revenue growth in many segments of our business.
Some of our strongest performers were properties where we have made investments in nongaming amenities.
On the hotel side refreshed room product and enhancements to our revenue management tools are helping drive higher room rates and stronger occupancy.
By the end of the first quarter we will complete work on nearly 400 redesigned hotel rooms at the Sun Coast.
This will be followed by 1 000 more rooms at the Orleans more than 400 rooms at the IP and nearly 200 rooms at Blue Chip.
In all nearly 25% of our wholly owned room inventory will be redesigned and updated during 2015.
We are actively refining our food and beverage offerings as well as we seek to provide customers a more compelling and relevant product.
During the fourth quarter we opened two new venues: the Games sports bar at the Sun Coast and the California Noodle House in downtown Las Vegas.
And we began design work on a number of other projects.
These efforts are the first step in a broad-based strategy to strengthen our food and beverage offerings with 11 more projects planned throughout our portfolio in 2015.
By improving the customer experience through updated dining and beverage offerings we look to expand our reach to new generations of customers and to strengthen our relationships with our existing customers.
Finally we continue to review our portfolio and business structure to ensure it is the best fit for our companys growth strategy.
As we mentioned during our last call were carefully reviewing our portfolio to ensure that each asset fits into our current growth strategy.
We will consider making adjustments if we feel it will improve our overall profile going forward.
Of course we also remain committed to finding ways to expand our portfolio and grow our business potentially through development opportunities and acquisitions.
Lastly as we have discussed on previous calls we continue to evaluate the possibility of forming a REIT.
This evaluation process is ongoing and we do not have any specifics to update you on at this time.
So to recap we continue to make good progress executing on our strategic initiatives.
Our management team is making improvements across our portfolio allowing us to benefit from the strengthening consumer.
An important part of this is our targeted investments in nongaming amenities and then improving the appeal and competitiveness of our assets.
We are already seeing the early benefits of this initiative and believe there are significant opportunities to create long term value with this strategy.
Improved operating efficiencies and flow through are paying off allowing us to grow margins and profitability in a modest revenue growth environment.
We are also continuing our focus on strengthening our financial position and we are actively reviewing and assessing our business to ensure that we are best positioned to maximize shareholder value over the long term.
Thank you for your time today.
Ill now turn the call over to Josh.
Thanks Keith.
Ill cover a few items related to 2014 and then spend most of my time discussing the context in which we are thinking about 2015 and the related guidance we have provided.
During the fourth quarter we continued to make progress in strengthening our balance sheet.
Total debt reduction for the year was nearly $200 million achieving the goal we set for ourselves at the beginning of 2014 and over the last two years we have reduced debt by nearly $725 million.
Our quarter end debt and cash balances were provided to you in our earnings release.
In terms of capital expenditures during the quarter we invested $55 million including $11 million at Peninsula.
Separately Borgatas capital expenditures were $7 million during the quarter.
For the year we have invested approximately $140 million at both Boyd and Peninsula and $19 million at Borgata.
Beginning with the fourth quarter as a result of MGM being re-licensed in New Jersey and the trust holding MGMs 50% interest in Borgata being dissolved we are accounting for our interest in Borgata using the equity method.
We have provided supplemental pro forma information in the last pages of our release presenting both GAAP and non-GAAP results for the fourth quarters and full years of 2013 and 2014 using the equity method.
As a note under the equity method we do not include Borgatas revenue in either the GAAP or non-GAAP format.
The non-GAAP presentation includes our 50% share of Borgatas EBITDA and two additional reporting line items below EBITDA to capture 50% of items such as depreciation pre-opening taxes and interest expense.
The GAAP presentation includes our 50% share of Borgatas operating income and a single line item to report the 50% of the items below operating income.
In terms of items that might be helpful in modeling the company for 2015 as well as full year guidance we have earmarked about $45 million in 2015 to reposition nongaming amenities within our properties.
As previously mentioned these capital projects range from upgrading existing restaurants and room products to introducing new concepts at select properties.
We expect this to be the beginning of a multiyear program.
While we have experienced initial success with the introduction of new amenities we will be prudent as we deploy this capital staging the capital spend to ensure we are generating the types of returns we expect as we expand this initiative.
In addition to this capital our budget for maintenance capital for Boyd is $100 million and for Peninsula its $15 million bringing our total capital expenditure budget for both Boyd and Peninsula to about $160 million.
As a result the total 2015 capital spend is expected to be slightly higher than 2014 levels.
Separately we expect to spend approximately $40 million in capital at Borgata which includes recurring maintenance of $25 million and approximately $15 million for capital related to further property enhancements.
Moving to the income statement for 2015 annual depreciation expense is expected to range from $210 million to $215 million with Boyds level of depreciation approximating $140 million to $145 million and Peninsulas depreciation about $70 million.
Borgatas depreciation which is not included in this range is expected to be about $60 million.
50% of Borgatas depreciation will be reported on the non-GAAP income statement in the line item designated Boyds Share of Borgatas Operating Costs and Expenses. In terms of total annual interest expense we expect approximately $225 million.
This interest expense assumes a modest increase in LIBOR rates over 2015 and no refinancings of our current outstanding debt balances.
Of this interest expense amount we expect Boyds interest expense to be about $155 million and Peninsulas to be around $70 million.
Borgatas interest expense should be about $65 million to $70 million which is not included in the numbers just mentioned.
50% of Borgatas interest expense will be reported on the non-GAAP income statement in the line item Boyds Share of Borgatas Nonoperating Items. In terms of corporate expense which is incorporated in our full year EBITDA guidance we expect about $65 million.
This number reflects incremental investments over 2014 spend levels in IT business analytics and enhanced corporate marketing capabilities.
Other income statement items include deferred rent which should approximate 2014 levels at about $4 million for the year pre-opening expense which is estimated to be about $10 million and stock based compensation expected to be about $12 million.
Shares outstanding should approximate 112 million shares.
In terms of overall guidance as noted in our release we expect wholly owned EBITDA after the deduction for corporate expense and including Peninsula and 50% of Borgatas EBITDA to be in the range of $535 million to $560 million for the full year of 2015.
The fourth quarter was a very good quarter for us.
However discerning between favorable weather impacts and consumer trends is very dicey.
As we evaluate the underlying business we note similar trends to that we experienced in the third quarter: modest revenue growth in the Las Vegas Locals segment primarily driven by nongaming spend and stabilizing trends in markets outside of Las Vegas.
In this environment we can continue to manage efficiently in order to deliver improving margins and optimal flow through from revenue growth.
For 2015 in the Las Vegas Locals segment we expect 2% to 3% EBITDA growth.
We expect downtown to be in line with prior year.
In the regional markets we expect our Midwest and South segment to be essentially on particular with prior year and at Peninsula EBITDA should grow about 2% to 3%.
Borgata is expected to generate $155 million to $160 million in EBITDA of which we will report 50% of that number in our results.
Our expectations for Borgata include an assumption of increased property taxes for 2015.
For the first quarter we expect EBITDA from our Las Vegas Locals and downtown businesses to mirror the results of last year.
On a combined basis Midwest and South and Peninsula assets should generate EBITDA increasing 2% to 3% and on a standalone basis we expect Borgata to generate $33 million to $35 million of EBITDA in the first quarter.
In conclusion we had a very solid quarter.
The operating trends that existed in the third quarter continued into the fourth quarter.
We obviously benefited from favorable weather comparisons but beyond the easy comparisons is a business in which we are improving margins and growing EBITDA.
With that operator that concludes our remarks and were now ready to take any questions.
[Operator instructions.] And our first question comes from Felicia Hendricks from Barclays.
If I can ask a question on downtown Las Vegas for a moment while visitations to Vegas set a new record last year it looked like the ADR in downtown dropped by about 4% as a whole.
I was just wondering if you could talk about the challenges driving rate in this environment.
I know you just said two minutes ago that you thought EBITDA would be flat there but what kind of challenges might you be seeing? And maybe if you could tell us how relative to last year things are looking in Vegas as a whole? As we look at downtown Las Vegas and the three properties we have down there the Cal the Fremont and Main Street a large share of our business is driven out of the Hawaiian market and is driven on packages that are pre-priced.
And so the opportunity to drive rate is for a much smaller component of the rooms.
And so I think we do have some ability to drive rate there but once again were more focused on kind of A) driving the Hawaiian business which has been the foundation of our downtown assets for decades and B) driving in visitation either off of the streets or from other hotel guests that are staying downtown.
So the real incremental profitability from increasing rates is not significant in our downtown operations because theres not that many cash rooms.
And I think the two points are that the Hawaiian business is a significant driver of our business in the sense that 60% to 65% of our rooms come from that segment and thats purely driven by how we price those packages and yield the flights that we charter coming from Hawaii.
And then the biggest driver kind of more recently has just been the increase in visitation downtown along the Fremont Street and really picking up traffic as people walk more around the amenities that are offered around that experience.
And just as an indication we were able to drive our cash rate downtown about 5% in the fourth quarter so we are seeing increases in our cash rate even though we dont have a tremendous number of rooms that we sell for cash.
And then just moving to Atlantic City and regarding the tax settlement that you have there is there a risk to that because of the cancelled bond offering that Atlantic City was supposed to have? This is what we know at this point.
We have an agreement with the city to receive $88 million as a result of the settlement of those tax years.
We were expecting to get that by the end of the year.
Didnt happen.
Theres provisions in the agreement that extend it and so the agreements been extended.
And other than that the emergency managers been hired hes got 60 days to create a plan hes in the early phases of that and I dont think we know much else until we see what plan is put together by the emergency manager and what happens with it.
So once again we still have our agreement in place.
Were still at this point fully expecting to get the $88 million and thats about all we know right now.
Our next question comes from Carlos Santarelli from Deutsche Bank.
Just as it pertains to your growth rates obviously on the top line it didnt take much and clearly you moved the needle significantly on the EBITDA line.
I guess my question is more for the non-weather periods.
When you guys think about the promotional environments in the Locals in the Midwest and South have you noticed as you start to pull away from promotions or to the extent that the market broadly starts to pull away from promotions if youre still able to attract that customer who maybe would have opted not to come several years ago? Certainly the lower end of the database the more casual gamer is more sensitive to those types of promotions.
Its historically been that way.
It continues to be that way where they show up more frequently when there are those promotions and the richer the promotion the more they show up.
And in todays environment when there arent promotions they dont show up.
For us its always been a matter of making sure we can find profitable promotions.
Weve kind of given up on trying simply to drive visitation and drive revenue and we focus more on driving profitable revenue.
And then just as you mentioned earlier Keith in your prepared remarks could you maybe talk a little bit about the way you guys are thinking about growth? Then obviously you did somewhat mention acquisition as part of the strategy.
When we look across kind of your regional landscape are there certain areas of the country that make more sense and what is your take on maybe getting bigger within the Las Vegas Locals market? I think within the Las Vegas Locals market we have term confidence in the market and if there were opportunities to add assets to our portfolio here that made sense to us we certainly would look at that.
With respect to kind of looking at acquisitions outside of Las Vegas and outside of Nevada were not a big fan of having multiple assets in the same markets.
We have five assets in Louisiana theyre all in distinctly different markets that dont compete with one another and so when we look around that makes the opportunities to acquire existing assets a little more limited.
But there are markets that we arent in.
Were not in the Pennsylvania market and there are other markets that could be attractive to us that we are not in.
We do look at new opportunities.
We looked at New York.
We couldnt find an opportunity there that made sense to us.
We looked at Massachusetts in the early days followed it for years and didnt find anything there that was attractive.
So we look at as many things today as we ever have.
We continue to be very prudent and have a very defined set of criteria to enter into a deal.
We do have one existing deal thats our Wilton Rancheria deal south of Sacramento in California which is kind of progressing on schedule.
And well continue to look for others but we dont have anything specific right now.
Our next question comes from Harry Curtis from Nomura.
Can you give us any signs of demand growth so far in 2015 as it pertains to this elusive gas price dividend that we seem to be talking about? And particularly your regional markets are you seeing any evidence of that? Its a good question.
I think its something that we have been struggling with for a number of months trying to understand whether theres a direct connect a direct drive if you will between the decline in gas prices the decline in energy prices generally in the Midwest and some improvements in revenues.
Whether its that whether its weather whether its a stronger economy generally and how you allocate all of those to allocate some amount of improvements to each of those areas I think its very difficult to ascribe a specific value to any one of those.
And so we havent found a magic formula to do that.
I think that lower energy prices generally have some sort of a halo effect and has the consumer feeling better generally but is that causing them specifically to spend more money? Its really difficult to tell.
My follow up is related to the stiff arm that you gave the REIT evaluation comment.
And Im just interested in maybe on a scale of one to ten how active is your evaluation of that possibility? Well I think the stiff arm I gave it was the same stiff arm Ive given it every quarter.
Im not sure it was any worse or any better.
But we spent a couple of million dollars last year evaluating the process.
We said kind of last call that we would continue to evaluate it.
We are continuing to evaluate that.
Were continuing to engage consultants to take a look at it and I guess Im unwilling at this point to put a metric on where were at or the likelihood of us going forward.
Were just continuing to evaluate it.
Its a little bit like an acquisition and I think Ive mentioned this before.
We dont generally talk about acquisitions specifically acquisitions in advance.
And when we have something to say we say it and we move forward and the same thing will happen here.
Once we come to a conclusion well announce it and move forward.
Until then were really not going to talk much about it.
Our next question comes from Thomas Allen from Morgan Stanley.
Your margins were much higher than I think we and the Street expected.
Can you just touch on kind of what drove that? Kind of single items? Was it initiatives that you put in place one two three quarters ago? Or was it driven by the new guys that you brought in? And then is there more room to cut costs or is this kind of a good run rate to look at going forward? I think its a little bit of all of those.
I think that first of all revenue growth even modest revenue growth helps improve margins tremendously given our current cost structure our ability to bring a large part of that to the bottom line.
I think beyond that theres a number of initiatives we put in place earlier this year.
Theres a number of new initiatives that have been put in place in the last three four five months.
Different markets are driven by different things so in some of our markets weve been able to reduce our marketing costs or have more effective marketing.
In other markets weve been able to refine labor and benefit costs more effectively.
And so theres no kind of one single thing that has allowed us to improve margins.
It is somewhat market specific or in some cases property specific depending on where were operating.
We dont have a homogenous product and therefore how we approach a business is really not homogenous.
Having said that every time we think were done improving margins we challenge our operating guys to find more and theyre always able to come up with it.
So are we done yet? I hope not but it does get tougher and tougher to continue to find ways to improve margins.
But well continue to go after it.
But definitely modest revenue growth or stabilized revenue helps in that equation as well.
And then just on the Las Vegas Locals market if you look at the market overall it seems like weve now had four straight months of volume growth thats either flat or up slightly which is an improvement on what we were seeing before.
I would assume the Las Vegas Locals market hasnt really been impacted by weather.
Do you think theres been some kind of an inflection point there where the markets starting to strengthen? Youre right we have not had any weather impacts here in Las Vegas.
When you look at gaming revenue in the Locals market for 2014 its flat.
It was negative in the first quarter it was negative in the second quarter it was negative in the third quarter grew a little bit in the fourth quarter.
Is that a trend? Is it the beginning of a trend having to do with lower gas prices or energy prices? Does it have to do with other things and the consumer feeling better? Hard to determine.
I guess Im unwilling to create a trend after two or three months of positive news.
So were hopeful that it is the beginning of a trend.
Well sure be paying attention to it.
But Im unwilling to call it a trend at this point.
Our next question comes from Shaun Kelley from Bank of America.
First question corporate expense was a little bit higher than what we were thinking this quarter.
Was that the REIT expenses? And then whats a good way of thinking about corporate next year? It wasnt related to REIT expenses.
I would say that it probably had to do with the ebb and flow with some other kind of timing related expenses.
I dont know specifically what they were.
We gave guidance for 2015 corporate expense of $65 million so thats what I would use to base the run rate off of because we are spending incrementally in 2015 on certain items that we didnt spend on in 2014 primarily the ones I mentioned in the earlier remarks around IT and developing some marketing capabilities and some other capabilities within the company.
So thats about all I can tell you with the information I have in front of me.
And just touching on your prepared remarks you commented on lower oil prices.
Just wondering if you see any risk going forward especially given your exposure to Louisiana.
As we look at our portfolio in Louisiana and the couple of properties that we operate in the South business coming out of the Houston area is certainly driven a lot by the oil economy but a lot of it is the service sector.
There are a number of other things that come into play there.
When oil prices go up we didnt see the business significantly increase and when oil prices have come down we havent seen it significantly decrease even in that Houston area.
And so were not assuming that theres tremendous risk to the business down there if oil prices stay at this level.
Theres also tremendous infrastructure improvements on the table for the Lake Charles area generally and tens of thousands of jobs being created and billions of dollars of investment going into infrastructure down in the southwest Louisiana area to deal with liquefied natural gas and those types of things.
So its a very robust economy down there.
Theres something like $9 billion of investment in infrastructure going in in the Lake Charles area for related development activity around energy.
So that may be offsetting some of the impact that otherwise would have been seen.
Our next question comes from James Kayler from BoA Merrill Lynch.
Just one housekeeping question.
What was the asset impairment for? Its just part of our annual test that were required to do and what we do every year.
So its multiple different assets across the portfolio.
And just to get back to the cost side of things the flow through in the quarter was obviously very impressive.
Revenues were up $7 million and EBITDA was up $13 million.
Thats like 185% flow through.
Is that being driven by reduced marketing costs or by actual reductions in operating costs? I think theres a combination of things that have impacted that.
With the current cost structure we do have a high percentage of flow through to the bottom line but in certain markets it was reduced marketing costs more efficient marketing costs.
In some markets it was reduced labor and benefit costs.
In other markets it was reduced general operating costs reductions in maybe food and beverage costs on the operating side or some improvements in other areas.
But it kind of ran the gamut and it just depended on what market were talking about whether it was Delta Downs or whether it was here in the Las Vegas Locals market or somewhere else.
So its a combination of factors.
And Josh you mentioned in the guidance that it assumes that balance sheet stays mostly static.
With that said you have one bond currently callable and another bond that becomes callable this year.
What is your thinking around the balance sheet and potentially consolidating the financing? Yeah so I think the companys objective has been pretty consistent around the two capital structures with respect to Boyd and Peninsula and that our desire is to combine the two and that has not changed.
That is our objective.
I think really its simply an economic decision for us and were looking for the right opportunity in terms of what interest savings we can achieve versus the cost to accomplish that financing.
So we dont have any pressure to do it before were ready.
The two structures can kind of sit out there until the conditions are kind of right for us to execute on that.
And with the passage of time my view today at least is that things just continually get better just given the assets are generating a lot of free cash flow deleveraging our businesses and to the extent that the capital markets cooperate and costs continue to come down therell be a time that makes sense for us.
So we want to do it but we want to do it under the right circumstances and we can wait if we need to.
Our next question comes from John Maxwell from Jefferies.
Just a couple of questions regarding Atlantic City.
The first I think in the prepared remarks you mentioned that youre expecting property taxes in AC to go up next year from last years rate.
And I was hoping you could provide some more color on that? No we really cant.
We basically just made an internal estimate that were not going to publicize.
But we had based on the settlement we reached in 2014 I guess it was that established the $88 million we established property tax values for 2014 and 2015.
The rate was then set for 2014 and what we dont know is the rate for 2015.
So weve gotten some folks together in a room and tried to estimate what that would be and tried to be conservative so that we can give guidance that was fairly reasonable.
But thats about as far as we can go right now.
And then regarding the profitability of the online business I think you mentioned that you had $2 million during the quarter and if thats correct could you just give me a sense of what type of cost are in that business? Is it mostly variable? Or is that mostly fixed? Just to kind of get an idea of margin potential.
I think its mostly variable costs.
The guys at Borgata have done a really good job of matching the level of expenses to the market size and to our position within the market and 2014 had obviously a startup cost related to the venture that kind of skewed the results on a full year basis.
Obviously we expect 2015 to be different in that regard.
And so the $2 million number kind of reflects a clean operating quarter if you will from the perspective of online business but it is a very seasonal business.
So for 2015 probably the online business could generate anywhere from $3 million to $5 million of EBITDA as part of the Borgata enterprise-wide EBITDA contribution to the business but it is seasonal in regard to that market.
And our final question today comes from Chad Beynon from Macquarie.
In your prepared remarks Josh you went into some great detail about some pretty extensive capex plans and I was just curious about the timing of these projects.
Was that a matter of what youre seeing in the market feedback from customers? You mentioned trying to tap into maybe a younger group? Or was this simply the opportunity that is presented to you given your cash balance? And then secondly how do you rate these returns on these investments versus buying something that you could kind of work into your portfolio? Theres a lot of dimensions to the question youre asking so Ill get some of it and if I miss something you can let me know.
But first of all the numbers I threw out there are budgets and typically we dont spend all the money that we set aside for ourselves in terms of the budget so I think you should kind of keep that in perspective as we talk about this.
Secondly I think that with respect to some of the capital its kind of what we would spend in a normal course anyway.
I think what were doing with respect to some of this incremental capital that were spending is really meant to kind of either upgrade maintenance capital purpose.
Instead of just replacing something at a restaurant or just replacing something in a room were looking at it from the perspective of kind of upgrading the offering generally.
So theres that aspect of it as well.
And then the last comment that I would make just generally around the order of magnitude this is probably $10 million to $15 million more than we spent at Boyd and Peninsula in 2014.
So its not that dramatic of a change from the trajectory of the prior year.
I think the purpose of this capital is what weve really been talking about throughout 2014 and thats really to position our amenities not only to give our existing customers a reason to visit us more often and spend where they want to spend which is the nongaming aspect of our business in a larger way but also in some cases to create and introduce amenities and offerings within our portfolio that do have an aspect that we dont offer some customers that were not seeing or were not getting visits from whether they be younger customers or customers that are either segments we havent gone after before or segments that our competitors have done a better job with.
So thats the base for which weve decided to kind of reinvest which is heres where people are spending money this is an opportunity for us to kind of capture their wallet and maybe expand our appeal beyond just our existing customer base to a broader customer segment.
So I hope that answers all your questions in there.
And then just kind of how you see returns on this.
Again you kind of talked about a $10 million to $15 million delta so its a small amount versus buying something but maybe just kind of how you view returns on future investments including buying other assets? Obviously the scale on those two investment alternatives is very different.
So we wouldnt view these expenditures on these incremental capital initiatives inhibiting or discouraging or shifting our focus from opportunities to potentially grow strategically.
But I would say that these returns are ones that I would say are kind of 10% to 15% cash on cash returns.
Some of them will be to again get our existing customers to spend a little bit more spend a little bit more time with us some to spend more on food and beverage than they have in the past in terms of how we price that product and then other aspects of it will be driven by getting that new customer to visit.
And then my follow up since we didnt touch on the IP we touched on a few other properties Gulf Coast was a market where we started to see a nice [skimming] revenue growth turn in the back half and I was wondering if you could provide some color on anything thats going on in that market and kind of what youre seeing at your property.
It looks like that market recovered before the rest of the regional gamers kind of in October November December.
I dont know that I have anything in particular to add or any particular color.
I think were participating as the market ebbs and flows.
I think were participating with it.
It has tended to be a little bit more promotional at times less promotional at other times.
But really I guess I dont have a whole lot to add.
It has come back somewhat.
In November I think the market itself was up a little bit.
Looks like 3% and we were up a little less than 3% so were kind of following along with the rest of the market.
And ladies and gentlemen at this time I would like to turn the conference call back over for any closing remarks.
Thank you for everyone joining the call today.
If you have any follow up questions feel free to reach out to the company and well be available to try to address those.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Boyd Gaming First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
Should you need assistance please signal a conference specialist by pressing the star key followed by zero.
After todays presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Josh Hirsberg.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Amy.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our first quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call this afternoon is Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer.
Our comments today will include statements that are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of todays date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement.
There are certain risks and uncertainties that include but are not limited to those disclosed in our earnings release our periodic reports and our other filings with the SEC that may materially impact our actual results.
Here in our call today well make references to non-GAAP financial measures.
For a complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the Investor Section of website at boydgaming.com.
We do not provide a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures due to our inability to project special charges and certain expenses.
Finally todays call is also being webcast live on our website boydgaming.com and will be available for replay on the Investor Relations section of our website shortly after the completion of this call.
Id now like to turn the call over to Keith Smith.
Keith.
Thanks Josh and good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our first quarter earnings call.
This is another great quarter for our company as we built on the positive momentum that began in the second half of 2014.
The operational restructuring we completed in the middle of 2014 has delivered clear results throughout the business.
And our strategic initiative to enhance our non-gaming amenities is delivering encouraging results another important part of our performance.
On the customer side we are seeing signs that the consumer is getting healthier growing more confident and spending more.
There is still considerable room for improvement with the consumer and we need to see more durability.
But the trends are encouraging and continue to move in the right direction.
For the quarter this resulted in modest but broad-based revenue growth of approximately 2% which we were able to convert into an 11% gain in EBITDA.
This performance repeats the impressive flow through we achieved in the fourth quarter and represents the fourth straight quarter we have improved operating margins across our business.
Our management teams across the country are doing an excellent job keeping their focus on operational execution growing the business and maintaining cost controls.
Lets walk through what we saw in each segment.
In Las Vegas the fundamentals of both the Las Vegas market the Las Vegas locals market and our locals business remain solid.
The southern Nevada economy is strengthening the local population is growing more people have jobs visitation is rising and consumers are spending more.
This is translating in the continued growth throughout our locals business especially in our non-gaming areas where we delivered our seventh consecutive quarter throw [ph].
In addition results of The Orleans and Gold Coast were solid in the first quarter with growth in gaming and non-gaming revenue at both properties.
While we did a short fall in EBITDA in our locals business this was the result of two unique events.
First we saw a significant business disruption at the Suncoast due to an extensive roadwork project adjacent to the property.
This disruption led to a $1 million EBITDA decline at the Suncoast in the first quarter.
And while were working hard to mitigate the impact of this project on our business we expect these declines to continue until the roadwork ends in late June.
Additionally EBITDA was reduced by approximately $1 million across the local segment with a lower hold on Super Bowl wagers.
The outcome of this years game impacted sports books throughout the state with wind down more than 80% from last year.
After these two events EBITDA continued to grow in the local segment during the first quarter.
Moving to downtown Las Vegas we continued to manage this business very efficiently translating 2% revenue growth into a 15% EBITDA gain.
This was our third straight quarter of EBITDA growth in the downtown segment.
Gaming revenue grew driven by a solid Hawaiian play and increased traffic on Fremont Street.
Non-gaming business was up more than 3% as well.
We continue to benefit from growing visitation to downtown driven by new attractions throughout the area.
And our Hawaiian charter service is realizing significant savings from lower fuel costs.
While the Nevada businesses continue to perform well during the quarter our regional property has delivered an even stronger performance.
We successfully leveraged higher revenues into double-digit EBITDA growth across the combined Midwest and South and Peninsula segments.
We improved operating margins by more than 170 basis points across the two segments marking the third consecutive quarter of margin improvement in our regional business.
This operating strength was broad-based as 10 of our 12 regional properties achieved year-over-year revenue and EBITDA growth.
Obviously more favorable weather helped.
But this is also the result of strong execution by our property management teams as well as a healthier consumer.
We saw strong performances of properties throughout the country.
Kansas Star produced its second consecutive quarter of solid revenue and EBITDA growth as the property benefitted from marketing and operational refinance as well as a recent hotel expansion.
At IP we saw encouraging growth and slight revenue and extremely strong flow through.
This property is also generating solid results from ongoing enhancements to its operations and marketing programs.
At Blue Chip we achieved our third straight quarter of revenue and EBITDA growth as our first in class amenities continue to driving increases n visitation and market share.
And Treasure Chest increased revenues by nearly 8% thanks to growth in visitation and a strong slot business.
Operating efficiencies allowed us to capture these revenue gains on the bottom line as EBITDA rose by nearly 20%.
This was the second quarter in a row we were able to produce both revenue and EBITDA growth at this property.
And in markets affected by increased capacity we did a much better job managing the business to meet changing conditions.
A good example is Paradise which achieved 13% EBITDA growth year-over-year.
This is particularly impressive when you consider that there are more than 19 000 video gaming machines now operating in Illinois accounting for more than $700 million in annual gaming revenue.
Despite the significant increase in gaming capacity the Paradise team is successfully refining the business and adapting to the new competitive landscape.
Sams Town Shreveport achieved strong EBITDA growth as well.
By adjusting marketing and tightly controlling costs we are delivering much improved results at this property.
And to the South Delta Downs performed well ahead of expectations nearly matching last years record EBITDA performance despite the openings of the Golden Nugget and Lake Charles last December.
Visitation by the propertys core customers remain strong a real tribute to the talented group of team members we have at Delta Downs and a reflection of the overall strength of the regional economy.
In all we delivered strong performances throughout our regional operations.
And we are increasingly optimistic about the potential for further growth in the quarters ahead.
Finally Borgata continued to be one of strongest performers.
The property nearly doubled EBITDA to $38 million in the first quarter marking its fourth straight quarter of solid performance.
Our core land-based business continued to perform exceptionally well growing EBITDA by about $13 million year-over-year.
This included $5.5 million in property tax benefits.
Rightsizing of the market of the market over the last 12 months has helped stabilize the operating environment in Atlantic City.
The remaining operators including Borgata are seeing improved trends as a result.
While soft casinos may have made sense when Atlantic City held a near monopoly on casino gaming on the East Coast it was too much capacity for todays highly competitive East Coast gaming market.
With these [ph] properties Atlantic City appears to have reached a level of supply that is appropriate to current demand.
And the remaining properties are generally seeing better results with same store gaming revenues increasing more than 5% across the market in the first quarter.
And as the clear market leader in Atlantic City Borgata continues to successfully attract more than its fair share of these new customers and new business.
In the first quarter Borgata saw a solid growth in visitation as we continue to gain local and regional market share.
Gaming volumes increased across the board n our core land-based operation driving a 9% increase in reported gaming revenue.
Slot win showed a double-digit growth even as we were more efficient with reinvestment expense.
Table games win also rose on higher volumes.
It generated revenue growth across the non-gaming side of the business as well.
Strong leisure sales and convention and meeting business contributed to an additional 14 000 room nights for the Borgata in the first quarter.
And we increased food and beverage revenues by 11%.
Our online business continued to perform well generating a profit for the third consecutive quarter.
Borgatas online gaming business contributed more than $4 million to the propertys EBITDA gain as last years $3 million loss swung to a profit of $1 million during the first quarter of this year.
As a reminder last years first quarter was the first full quarter of operation for our online business and included significant start-up marketing cost that were not repeated this year.
Across the country it was another strong performance by all of our operating teams.
The operating environment is clearly improving and we continue to successfully refine the business identify additional cost savings and drive a majority of revenue gains to the bottom line.
As we look to the future it is clear to us that our customer base is changing.
Were seeing a younger demographic of customers who are looking for a high quality and engaging amenities.
At the same time our existing customers have shifted more of their spending away from the casino floor.
To ensure our properties are well-positioned for future growth we continue to pursue our strategic initiative to reposition and enhance our non-gaming amenities an area of our business where we have seen consistent growth for the last couple of years.
While gaming remains at the core of our business refining and expanding our non-gaming amenities is essential to the future of our company.
And we continue to make progress on this strategic initiative.
On the hotel side were seeing improved results from early room operation renovations which drive a 14% increase in cash room rates in our Las Vegas locals properties.
And we continue to bring additional redesigned room product online.
Earlier this month we completed and upgraded nearly 800 rooms at the Suncoast and IP.
And next week we will begin work on the renovation and modernization of 1 250 rooms and suites at The Orleans and Blue Chip scheduled for completion by the end of 2015.
On the food and beverage side we are seeing an increase in cash business at the new restaurants we opened recently in Las Vegas a clear indication that these amenities are successfully expanding our customer base by drawing new visitors to our properties.
We are now ramping up this component of our initiative with about 20 new food and beverage concepts scheduled to open throughout our portfolio over the next 12 months.
Based on the trends weve seen in our business and results from our initial investments we believe this initiative will create significant value for our properties through incremental revenues as well as increased visitation and increased exposure for our brands.
In addition to our focus on improving operating results and positioning our properties to be more competitive we are maintaining our focus on strengthening our financial position as well.
Thanks to continued growth in our operations weve generated a substantial amount of free cash flow in the first quarter and paid down more than $80 million in debt during the quarter.
Debt reduction will remain a strategic priority for our company as we look for ways to further increase our financial flexibility.
So in summary Im encouraged by our companys continued progress in the first quarter and the successful execution of our strategic plan.
We are achieving clear results from the work weve done to strengthen our operations.
We are generating broad-based revenue and EBITDA growth improving margins and successfully flowing revenue gains to the bottom line.
We are seeing encouraging results from the initial enhancements weve made to our non-gaming amenities.
This strategic initiative ensures that our properties will remain competitive and attractive to a broad demographic of customers for years to come.
And finally we will continue to strengthen our financial position and remain diligently focused on growing long-term shareholder value.
Thank you for your time today.
Ill now turn the call over to Josh.
Josh.
Thanks Keith.
During the quarter we continued to make progress in strengthening our balance sheet by reducing debt by more than $80 million.
Our quarter in debt and cash balances were provided to you in our earnings release.
In terms of capital expenditures during the quarter we invested $19 million including $7 million at Peninsula.
Separately Borgatas capital expenditures were $5 million during the quarter.
Much of our capital spending is scheduled for later this year and as a result we continue to expect to meet our previously issued guidance for capital expenditures.
In terms of EBITDA guidance we are raising our guidance to incorporate first quarter performance.
As noted in our release we expect wholly on EBITDA after the deduction for corporate expense and including Peninsula and 50% of Borgatas EBITDA to be in the range of $542 million to $567 million for the full year of 2015.
This guidance incorporates the following expectations.
In the Las Vegas locals segment we expect road construction to impact the Suncoast in the second quarter.
This disruption impacted the first quarter by $1 million in EBITDA and we expect a similar impact to the business n Q2.
Excluding this impact at Suncoast we expect our Las Vegas locals and downtown businesses to each grow EBITDA year-over-year by 2% to 3%.
We expect EBITDA in each of our Midwest and South and Peninsula segments to grow year-over-year EBITDA by 3% to 4%.
The growth expectations that I just discussed for the full year are also good indications for our second quarter EBITDA performance.
At Borgata we are increasing our EBITDA expectations to $160 million to $165 million but which we will accord 50% in our results.
Our expectations for Borgata include an assumption of increased property taxes for 2015.
Borgata has performed impressively in a highly competitive market.
Borgatas leverage ratio at the end of the first quarter was 4.2x down from over 7x leverage in March of 2014.
This property is clearly running on all cylinders.
Beyond its capital program excess cash flow will be used to continue to deleverage Borgatas balance sheet.
In conclusion we had another solid quarter.
The operating trends in our business are improving.
Weve taken cost out of our business such that were able to improve margins and grow EBITDA.
And our capital plans are targeted to capture how customers are spending their money.
With that Amy that concludes our remarks and were now ready to take any questions from the listeners.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Felicia Hendrix of Barclays.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Keith you gave us a lot of very good colorful detail about whats going on in your various regions and you talked about the many successes in the Midwest and the South given your cost-cutting efforts and revenue-enhancing strategies and you highlighted several properties that have done well.
Just wondering in that region where is there still more work to do? And while Josh kind of estimated this in the guidance before we get too excited in terms of the margins you reported in that region in Midwest and South do you think those levels are sustainable? Thanks for the question Felicia.
Couple of comments.
One I think there is more work to do everywhere.
While I think we had a very good quarter posted some very good numbers theres continued room for improvement at I think each and every one of those properties in the Midwest and South and in the Peninsula group.
I think the margins are sustainable.
Once again we posted kind of four straight quarters of margin improvement.
Its not coming out of any one area.
They tend to be broad-based refinements to the business whether its payroll or marketing or other costs in the business.
And the team is just intensely focused on improving results.
So I think well continue to see kind of improvements across the board.
Okay great.
And then just as a follow up in Lake Charles I know that the outcome thus far is a lot better than everyone expected initially and January was certainly strong.
And then Delta Downs had about a flattish February and then was down about 4% in March.
So just kind of wondering that trajectory issue we read into that too much what are you seeing there right now in terms of your property going forward? No.
Actually I dont think you should read anything into the trajectory.
It is choppy for month-to-month depending on what competitors may be doing or depending on how we may have done in a prior month given a specific promotion we may have had or even the movement of the calendar.
Simply swapping a weekend day for a weekday can move a number of Delta Downs to $500 000 in revenue.
And so there are those subtleties that take place.
But I will tell you you should not read anything into the trajectory.
The Delta business when you look through April continues to be very strong.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Sure The next question comes from Thomas Allen at Morgan Stanley.
Hey.
Good afternoon guys and congrats on the 40 year anniversary.
Thank you Thomas.
So on his call a couple of days ago we see when [ph] - your pretty negative outlook on Vegas again highlighted some of the kind of forward booking data going into the summer.
Clearly you have a pretty different customer base.
But can you give - can you put your kind of optimism in the context of his comments? I would say this that as we look through the second quarter Thomas that the trends that we saw in the first quarter are continuing into the second quarter.
I would tell you I think we had a - were having a good April.
May is certainly shaping up to be a good month.
And June is probably looking a little soft but June typically looks a little soft.
I cant speak in a lot of detail kind of about the July August September bookings right now.
I just dont have it in front of me.
Theres nothing that gives me concern.
Look the locals economy continues to be very strong with employment op with the housing market doing well a number of electrometer hookups.
All of these point to a continued strength into the locals market from an economic standpoint.
Taxable sales are up.
I understand what Mr.
William said but I think there are some positive signs out there across the board.
Perfect.
Thank you.
And then weve gotten 23 minutes about anyone asking you for an update on opco/propco discussion.
Do you mind touching on it quickly? Im not sure Im familiar with that topic.
All kidding aside.
As weve said on previous calls this is something that we continue to evaluate.
And when we have something definitive to say well come out and say it at that point.
Our goal is to determine if pursuing this path will create longer term sustainable increases in shareholder value.
And so well continue to look at it and analyze it.
And once again if we have something to say well say it.
And just a quick numbers question.
Is there a way to quantify the benefit to - of lower field cost to your downtown business for the Hawaii charter business? Is that significant or do you have a number? That would be great.
Thanks.
Yes.
Tom this is Josh.
I would say that of the increase that we saw in the first quarter attributable to Downtown about half of it was related to fuel and the rest was related to running the business sufficiently and cash inflow [ph] through from the revenue growth.
Thanks Josh.
Yes.
Thank you.
Bye-bye.
The next question is from Shaun Kelley at Bank of America.
Hi.
This is Barry Jonas in for Sean.
Just had a couple of questions.
First in regards to the Borgata property tax can you maybe just give a little more color to help us model that for the remainder of the year? Yes.
I dont think were in a position to do that at this point.
Weve made our own kind of assumptions based on information that weve gathered and the experience we have in the marketplace.
But I think until we get a better idea of what the rate is well stick to the liquidity [ph] comes July August timeframe.
I dont think we want to kind of there Barry.
Okay great.
And then just in terms of the guidance increase how much of that is just flowing through maybe a stronger Q1 than was expected as opposed to just optimism for the remainder of the year? Yes its really - Barry its a good question.
Its all really reflective of what happened in Q1.
I think when we looked at the performance in Q1 we continue to really believe that its difficult to discern how much is weather [ph] and how much is a stronger consumer.
I think we believe well get more color and visibility into that in the second quarter when we have more comparable numbers.
And I think from our perspective while we had a good quarter in the first quarter we want to really see not only how much of it is the consumer and where the consumer kind of - how the consumer feels but just - and Keith mentioned it in his remarks we want to see some consistency some broad based durability and continuity with respect to the consumer spend.
And thats really hard to discern from the business that we saw in Q1.
So we extrapolate we basically built in all of Q1 kind of looked at where kind of business was trending for the rest of the year and thats what is reflected in the guidance.
Got it.
And then last one for me you gave some positive commentary on Treasure Chest in the opening comments.
Just wondering is that a - in regards to the smoking ban in New Orleans how do you see that benefitting the property? I think - Barry this is Keith its a little early to make any determination or assessment.
Its probably been one weekend maybe 10 days at this point.
And so - then theyve had some pretty bad weather down there over the last 10 days.
So we truly are to understand if theres any impact at all to that.
The improvements we saw in Q1 which are similar to the improvements we saw in Q4 are all just about increased visitation and just driving the business better.
Well obviously monitor the smoking situation and see if we get any benefit out of it.
But at this point we dont know.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Youre welcome.
Our next question comes from Carlos Santarelli Deutsche Bank.
Hey guys.
Good afternoon.
Just following up on the opco/propco question earlier.
I think one of the statements you guys made when you first discussed that option was when you made your determination we would know.
So my question is more along the lines of as you think about it today and the company obviously has done some work with deleveraging and generating free cash flow to pay down debt.
When you look out at the transaction landscape today in the U.S.
is there anything that has changed over say the last three to six months? In terms of being able to execute a transaction Carlos? In terms of - I would say yes the landscape multiple things of that discussions to any extent that youve had any? Yes.
I would say that really theres plenty of things that we have found to potentially acquire.
Its less - its more about finding what makes strategic sense for the company has the ability to generate free cash flow and deleverage the business.
Same criteria weve had really for quite some time in terms of being able to I guess engage in a potential conversation around acquisitions.
I would say generally we have not been precluded from pursuing any that kind of fit our criteria.
So strategically we continue to look at the REIT [ph] as a strategic alternative we look at acquisitions as a strategic alternative and we look at other things as well.
And we just balance all those alternatives.
I would say pretty clearly today we dont feel precluded from any of those options in terms of being able to execute on our various strategic initiatives.
Great.
Thanks Josh.
And then if I could just one housekeeping.
I know you said your CapEx spend was the same but just to kind of refresh it was $100 million for Boyd and Peninsula on the maintenance side and then another $45 million or so in project if Im not mistaken? Yes.
Thats pretty close.
It was $100 million in maintenance for Boyd and then $15 million in maintenance for Peninsula and then about $45 million of the kind of strategic capital the reposition - the non-gaming amenities.
So in total its about $160 million Carlos.
And Borgata remains unchanged that kind of $25 million and $15 million? Yes exactly.
Okay great.
Thanks Josh.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Harry Curtis at Nomura.
Hi guys.
Im all set.
Thanks.
All right.
Thanks Harry.
And we have time for one last question and that comes from Larry Haberdie [ph] at TAMCO.
Yes.
Hey Larry.
Hi Josh.
A couple of quick questions.
One theres a couple of events in Las Vegas this May that are somewhat unusual and they may result in excess business the fight this weekend and then Rock in Rio which is going to put hundreds of thousands of people into the town.
Are you going to be able to capitalize on this in terms of rates in your hotels and possibly play? Hey Larry this is Keith.
We clearly will be able to capitalize to some extent on this coming weekend with the fight in town by being able to leverage up our room rates.
Unfortunately the fight was booked late in the cycle.
And so I think many of us had prior bookings and has filled the hotels with other business because you dont wait until the last minute to fill the hotel.
But the rooms we have left weve clearly been able to take advantage of higher room rates and we certainly expect to get some good casino business throughout the week.
And with respect to Rock in Rio once again were able to kind of leverage up rates a little bit.
Well see exactly what that customer - what the gaming profile of that customer is that will - whether that looks like the customer that comes in June for the other music festival we have here the Electric Daisy Carnival or whether its a different customer well just have to wait and see.
And then second with the insufficiencies that youre getting are some of them related to taking slots out and/or changing participation game ratios? No.
I would say that our slot replacement cycle is fairly normal.
Our participation games were looking at all the time to make sure that they are productive.
I couldnt quote you today the number of games we have now versus later.
Its probably pretty flat.
But yes its the cost were taking out of the business really is across the board in - once again as I said in my prepared comments from payroll to marketing costs to other costs.
Great.
Thanks Keith.
Youre welcome.
That does conclude our question and answer session.
Would you like to make any closing remarks Mr.
Hirsberg? Thanks Amy and thanks for each of you dialing in today.
We hope it was beneficial and we will look forward to speaking to you again in about another quarter.
If you have any questions in the meantime feel free to reach out to the company and well make ourselves available.
Thanks again.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Boyd Gaming Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After todays presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Josh Hirsberg Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Amy.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our second quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call this afternoon is Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer.
Our comments today will include statements that are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of todays date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement.
There are certain risks and uncertainties that include but are not limited to those disclosed in our earnings release our periodic reports and our other filings with the SEC that may impact our results.
During our call today well make references to non-GAAP financial measures.
For a complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the Investor Section of website at boydgaming.com.
We do not provide a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures due to our inability to project special charges and certain expenses.
Finally todays call is also being webcast live on our website at boydgaming.com and will be available for replay on the Investor Relations section of our website shortly after the completion of this call.
Id now like to turn the call over to Keith Smith.
Keith.
Thanks Josh.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter earnings call.
This was an exceptional quarter for our company as the positive trends that weve been seeing since the second half of last year continue to strengthen across every segment of our business.
Across the country we see consumers growing more confident and showing a greater willingness to spend and thanks to more effective marketing programs upgrades to our non-gaming amenities and outstanding execution by our property management teams we successfully generated strong revenue growth and even stronger EBITDA growth.
Total revenue increased nearly 4% in the second quarter marking our fourth consecutive quarter of top-line growth.
This revenue growth was broad based as we grew both gaming and non-gaming revenues and generated solid revenue gains in all five of our business segments.
We also continue to improve our cost structure by driving additional efficiencies throughout our business.
The combination of revenue growth and cost efficiencies allowed us to produce very strong flow through and increased profitability.
Companywide EBITDA increased 17% during the second quarter our third straight quarter of double-digit EBITDA growth and it was also the fifth straight quarter of margin improvement for our company.
Additionally every business segment achieved EBITDA growth with 19 of our 22 properties growing EBITDA year-over-year and 16 of these properties achieving double digit EBITDA growth.
We are making solid progress as a company and every segment of our business is moving in the right direction.
Now lets walk through what we saw in each of these segments.
Our Las Vegas locals business had a solid quarter growing revenue by more than 3% and EBITDA by more than 15%.
All four of our major locals properties achieved year-over-year EBITDA growth during the quarter.
Non-gaming revenues grew for the 8th consecutive quarter in our locals business.
And importantly we grew gaming revenues as well with strong gains in table games.
These results are particularly impressive when you consider that both some custom sands [indiscernible] were disrupted by major roadwork throughout the quarter.
While this negatively impacting gaming revenue of these properties we still achieved year-over-year EBITDA growth at both.
We expect roadwork to be completed at both properties by Labor Day which should contribute to further strengthening in our locals business in the fourth quarter.
At the properties not impacted by roadwork The Orleans and Gold Coast results were more reflective of the underlying strength of our locals business.
On a combined basis The Orleans and Gold Coast generated revenue growth of more than 6% and EBITDA growth of more than 20%.
This was the best second quarter EBITDA performance for these properties since 2008.
The Orleans and Gold Coast are grow throughout the business with increases in gaming revenue non-gaming revenue and cash ADR.
In downtown Las Vegas solid revenue growth and lower fuel cost in our Hawaiian charter service drove an EBITDA gain of more than 40%.
This was the 4th consecutive quarter of EBITDA growth for our downtown business.
Both gaming and non-gaming revenues were up as all geographic segments of our downtown customer base saw growth including continued strength among our core Hawaiian customers.
Importantly we saw increases in both table game and slot volumes in our downtown operations.
Were also benefiting from significant growth in visitation to downtown Las Vegas.
2015 has been a great year for downtown and the Fremont Street as ongoing reinvestments and improvements in the area continue to draw more visitors.
Outside of Nevada were seeing growth throughout our operation as well.
On a combined basis the Midwest and South and Peninsula segments achieved revenue growth of more than 3% and EBITDA growth of 15%.
Of our 12 regional properties 11 were up year-over-year on EBITDA line with nine of these properties growing EBITDA at double digit rates.
Leading the way was the IT which turned revenue growth of $3 million into an EBITDA gain of more than $4 million thanks to refinements to our operations our casino floor and our marketing the IT team has now delivered three consecutive quarters of double digit EBITDA growth.
In New Orleans Treasure Chest have an impressive quarter posting 11% higher revenues and 24% EBITDA gain.
Treasure Chest generated strong gaming revenue growth during the quarter particularly among casual players.
Delta Downs had a strong operating performance as well with 12% EBITDA growth year-over-year.
The property successfully grew EBITDA every month during the quarter while improving operating margins by nearly 270 basis points.
Delta Downs also continued to perform well in the face of new competition achieving record EBITDA for the month of April.
However the severe rainfall and flooding has hit the Houston area in late May and June impacted the entire market resulting in a slight year-over-year decline in EBITDA for the quarter.
Despite this Delta Downs continues to perform well ahead of our expectations and see opening of the Golden Nugget last December.
In Indiana Blue Chip grew revenue and EBITDA for the fourth consecutive quarter successfully leveraging smarter leading amenities to continue increasing market share.
Blue Chip outpaced the market with year-over-year admission growth and was the only Northwest Indiana casino to grow year-over-year slot volume and revenue during the quarter.
In Iowa Diamond Jo Dubuque significantly outperformed its competition gaining substantial share of flat market.
As a result the property was able to grow revenue by 4% and EBITDA by 15%.
And in Kansas the Kansas Star achieved record second quarter EBITDA with the year-over-year EBITDA increase of nearly 10%.
The Kansas Star team is taking full advantage of expanded non-gaming amenities to drive visitation to the property.
Revenues rose 5% during the quarter with increases in both gaming and non-gaming business.
And impressively the Kansas Star improved its operating margins by 130 basis points during the second quarter to 46.5%.
This represents the highest operating margin achieved by the property since the fourth quarter of 2012 when it moved into its permanent facility.
Finally in Atlantic City Borgata posted its 5th consecutive quarter of EBITDA growth.
Revenue increased nearly $10 million year-over-year as every segment of Borgatas business showed healthy growth.
As the regions leading entertainment resort Borgata continues to gain an outside share of the market.
Borgata expanded its lead in the Atlantic City gaming market by nearly 400 basis points year-over-year to more than 27%.
And looking at the quarter remember that last years results included a onetime benefit of approximately $12 million related to last years property tax settlement with the city.
Excluding that benefit EBITDA at the Borgata grew by about 45% year-over-year including 1.6 million in EBITDA from our online operations.
Gross gaming revenue rose nearly 3% at Borgata and while table hold was down more than 200 basis points year-over-year net slot win rose nearly 10%.
We also saw strong revenue increases away from the casino floor Borgata sold nearly 5 000 additional room nights during the quarter and food and beverage business was up across the board.
During the quarter we continued to invest in Borgatas non-gaming offerings with the opening of Festival Park last month.
This 5 000 capacity outdoor venue has an attractive new entertainment offering to Borgata enabling the property to further capitalize on a busy summer season by driving increased visitation ticket sales and food and beverage revenue.
We successfully launched the venue with a sold out performance by The Killers in June and well be hosting concert by Meghan Trainor Tiesto and Counting Crows in the coming weeks.
In all the second quarter reflected an exceptional operating performance by our management teams nationwide.
We are growing gaming and non-gaming revenue achieving strong flow through and further improving our operating margins.
Were clearly making significant progress on our strategic initiatives to refine and strengthen our operations.
We are also making continued progress on our initiative to reposition expand and enhance non-gaming amenities and markets with high growth potential.
Our objective here is twofold to generate additional business from our existing customers and to expand the appeal of our properties to attract new customers.
We saw the potential of this initiative during the second quarter as non-gaming revenue grew across the portfolio.
Almost all of our companys strongest performer properties like the Arleen's Borgata Blue Chip IP and Kansas Star offer customers a broad selection of gaming dining and entertainment offerings.
We expect similar results from our planned expansion of Delta Downs which we announced last month.
As one of our most popular and successful properties Delta Down simply doesnt have enough hotel rooms to meet all of the customer demand were seeing today especially on weekends and during other peak periods and more demand is coming with billions of dollars of infrastructure activity planned for this region a significant portion of which is already started South West Louisiana is poised for continued growth.
With this project we will be adding 167 hotel rooms and suites to Delta Downs redesigning the property's existing 200 rooms and expanding and enhancing our food and beverage offerings.
Well be expanding our event center as well allowing Delta Downs to better accommodate meetings banquets live entertainment and special events.
We will also be adding an expanded outdoor pool and event area.
By expanding Delta Downs well be better able to capitalize on the growing demand seeing more customers that we can accommodate today.
We will also look to generate additional business to the enhancement of the property's amenities giving customers new reasons to visit Delta Downs for the first time.
Of course Delta Down isnt the only project on the drawing board.
As noted previously we also have several hotel renovations now underway and we are continuing to work on the 20 new food and beverage concepts we plan to open over the next 12 months.
Next week well be celebrating the grand opening of the newest concept in this campaign the Filament Bar at the Freemont.
Located just inside the Freemont's third street entrance the Filament is well positioned to take advantage of the significant pedestrian traffic along the Freemont's great experience.
And in September we plan to debut a new casual fine dining brand at Evangeline Downs as we look to expand that property's appeal in a very competitive market.
Even while we are making smart investments for the future we continue to make steady progress strengthening our balance sheet.
During the quarter we successfully refinanced 500 million in high coupon senior notes that were coming due in 2018 pushing out our maturities at a lower cost.
We also continued our focus on paying down debt.
In summary I am proud of what our management team's achieved in the second quarter.
We delivered strong results for our shareholders with significant revenue and EBITDA growth throughout the portfolio and we are starting to see solid results from the investments we are making to enhance the long-term appeal of our portfolio and drive further growth.
As a company we have made considerable progress so far this year and we are well positioned to benefit from improving our economic trends across the country.
Through renewed focus and intensity we are optimistic about the remainder of the year and our ability to continue enhance the results for our shareholders.
Thank you for your time Id like to turn the call over to Josh.
Thanks Keith.
During the quarter we continued to make progress in strengthening in our balance sheet.
In May we successfully issued $750 million of senior notes at an attractive rate of [six and seven eights percent].
We used the proceeds of the new issuance to retire $500 million of [nine and one eights percent] senior notes maturing in 2018 and reduce outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
In addition as Keith mentioned we continue to reduce debt.
In the second quarter we paid down approximately $45 million.
Our debt reduction in the second quarter would have been similar to first quarter if not for fees related to debt financing.
Debt reduction year-to-date totals approximately $125 million.
Our quarter end debt and cash balances were provided to you in our earnings release.
In terms of capital expenditures during the quarter we invested $39 million including $5 million at Peninsula.
Year-to-date we have invested $58 million between Boyd and Peninsula.
As Keith mentioned we announced a $45 million expansion project at Delta Downs.
We expect to spend about $10 million this year on the project and a remaining portion of the budget in 2016.
This project is slated to be completed by year end 2016.
Separately Borgatas capital expenditures were $10 million during the quarter.
In terms of EBITDA guidance we are raising our guidance to incorporate second quarter performance and to reflect the positive trend we are seeing in our business.
As noted in our release we expect to report adjusted EBITDA including Peninsula and 50% of Borgatas EBITDA and after corporate expense in the range of $575 million to $595 million for the full year of 2015.
This guidance incorporates the following expectations; wholly owned net revenues are expected to grow in the second half of the year consistent with the first half with EBITDA benefiting from 65% to 70% flow through.
More specifically in the Las Vegas locals segment including the impact of road construction through the summer at Sun Coast and Sams Town we expect our Las Vegas locals business to grow EBITDA by about 5% to 5.5% for the full year.
For our downtown businesses we expect full year EBITDA to grow about 14% over 2014 levels.
In the Midwest and South and Peninsula segments we expect to grow full year EBITDA on a combined basis by about 7% to 8%.
At Borgata we are increasing our EBITDA expectations to $170 million for the year.
Of which we will record 50% in our results.
Our expectations for Borgata include an assumption of increased property taxes for 2015.
Borgata has performed impressively in a highly competitive marketplace.
Borgatas leverage at the end of the second quarter was approximately four times.
Beyond this capital program excess cash flow will continue to be used to deleverage Borgatas balance sheet.
Last week we announced that Borgata has entered into a new $650 million term loan commitment that will be used to refinance Borgatas remaining high yield debt when the call premiums steps down in mid-August and further provides incremental capacity to refinance the existing term loan should Borgata decide to retire that loan within the next 12 months.
Retiring Borgatas [nine and seven eights percent] secured notes will save over $12 million interest expense annually.
In conclusion everything came together to create a great second quarter.
Our operations team executed seamlessly across the portfolio driving both gaming and non-gaming revenue growth while continuing to find ways to reduce operating cost yielding strong flow through and continued margin improvements.
And our capital plans are successfully capturing how our customers are spending their money.
With that operator that concludes our remarks and were now ready to take any questions.
Thank you [Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Joel Simkins at Credit Suisse.
Youve obviously seen some pretty strong demand here in Las Vegas and its phenomenal flow through.
Could you just talk a little bit about what youre seeing on the hotel side? Do you feel like youre capturing some ADR opportunities as strip continues to reoccupy? And to the extent you could talk a little bit about the summer that would be helpful I am obviously mindful this is kind of a softer period for demand from tourist perhaps in that market.
Couple of comments so on the ADR side of thing for the last several quarters we seen nice growth in cash ADR and good occupancies throughout the portfolio here in Las Vegas and so I think we have a demonstrated ability to capture some upside there and its flowing straight to the bottom line.
From a kind of summer perspective I think the trends that were seeing not just here in Las Vegas but frankly around the country are very similar to what we saw in Q2.
We have three weeks of July kind of behind or under our belt at this point so its a limited snapshot but those three weeks are basically consistent with what were seeing in Q2.
And Josh in your prepared remarks you mentioned some roadwork as well at Sams Town that sounded a little incremental to Sun Coast.
Do you guys have any sense of when these projects will wrap up? I know were hoping some of them will be done by the end of the second quarter.
I know thats out of your control obviously.
Right Joel I think these projects are driven by factors and circumstances that are really out of our control and so we go by what were told.
I think we originally expected Sams Town and Sun Coast to be kind of be done and behind us at the end of the second quarter but they seem to be kind of dragging on so were now thinking kind of by Labor Day thats the best guess we have now.
Keith might know a little bit more about.
Joe I mean it is kind of an integral process every time we think its going to be done something comes up and the project gets extended.
Our best guess is Labor Day.
And so we would have thought that would have been done by now but that isnt the case.
And one final question obviously GLPI [indiscernible] looks like its come to a conclusion here with that in mind just how does that sort of change your mind set in terms of your ability you got two acquisitions and attract multiples.
You feel like youre going to be continuing to compete against GLPI or do you feel like you can find some additional incremental opportunities out here.
Weve always felt that we have been a company that has grown through acquisition and been able to kind of execute those successfully and we today have not been seen any impairments or any kind of factors that would suggest to us that thats going to change.
I think we continue to have opportunities that we are considering and I would say really what the REIT conversation has down to our industry has kind of opened the eyes to some folks that may not have previously been considering selling to kind of have those conversations.
So there was a period of time right after we acquired Peninsula where we said we were going to kind of take a hiatus or vacation from acquisitions for a little bit and we kind of regrouped around that and really focused on integrating Peninsula.
And I would say today we have as many constructive conversations around potential opportunities as weve had kind of pre-Peninsula.
So I think up until now we dont feel like we have been thwarted from our ability to acquire other assets.
Our next question is from Felicia Hendrix of Barclays.
Hi good afternoon and thanks.
You guys beat your guidance quite nicely Josh I was just wondering if you could walk us through where the biggest surprises came from versus what you thought was going to happen in May when you provided that guidance.
Sure Felicia.
Thanks for noticing the beats; it was kind of a nice quarter for us.
The revenue growth that we achieved was generally in line with our expectations maybe just slightly better but generally in line with our expectations.
I think the real surprise came through on the flow through where it was just a quarter where it all came together for us and we have very strong flow through of those incremental dollars.
So thats kind of where the real positive news came from.
Okay.
And then when you think about your guidance then for the second quarter how would you rate the conservatism around that? I think were providing guidance and we believe is certainly achievable.
We are not trying to be aggressive; but were not trying to be conservative.
Were trying to provide something that is based on our internal conversations with the operations folks that are close to it every day closer to it than myself in particular.
And so were trying to give you our best view but we also were cognizant of the fact that we want to continue to be able to deliver on the results that we put forth for the market place.
So we're kind of balancing all those things.
I think what we have tried to do was tell you that the consumer is getting stronger.
We want to continue to get a little bit more kind of history under our belt from how theyre willing to spend and how theyre willing to kind of interact with us as a provider of their entertainment dollars.
But in the context of what we are seeing today we tried to give you the factors that we have used in the framework of providing the guidance around both flow through as well as kind of revenue growth.
And on that point is in terms of the consumer getting stronger can you just give us a little bit more color what youre seeing maybe up and down the spectrum.
So I think that as we look through the database we look at our rated play and our unrated play I mean look at our mid and our upper levels play remain strong and were seeing good growth in both spend and frequency.
Customer spend is up across the portfolio in that respect.
Unrated plays also show year-over-year growth and was kind of the first business to go away during the tough times and has been the last business to come back but we are beginning to see a comeback not in all properties but frankly in most of our properties were seeing growth in the unrated play.
In the casual play the lower end of the database were also seeing some strengthening there and so again the consumers are getting healthier we are seeing better spend patterns from them.
But we have a good quarter under our belt.
Weve seen some good trends.
I dont think we are going to take the second quarter and multiply it by four to annualize it but I think we feel good about the direction of the business.
The next question is from Shaun Kelley Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good afternoon guys.
I just wanted to talk a little more maybe about some of the strategic options in front of you.
So I was curious to sort of on your current thinking on Borgata youre putting in a place a decent refi the property tax that has generally worked out you put some very good results in a fully consolidating market share.
But you still have the joint venture relationship.
So is there a chance or I mean what would be your appetite in terms of renewed interest and possibly trying to buy in maybe other side of that partnership and where do you kind of think about how Atlantic City or doubling down in that market sits in to your priorities right now.
Shaun this is Josh I will take the first shot at it and then if Keith wants to add something he can jump in.
I think generally we like our position in Atlantic City we got obviously is the market leader and not only competes well in the marketplace but in the entire region.
And competitively we dont see that changing for quite some time if at all.
And so overall the circumstance of our competitive positioning and our operating position within Atlantic City in the form of Borgata is something that we are pleased with.
Would we make additional investments in Atlantic City only in the sense of Borgata idly I think were happy with the partnership that we have with MGM I think MGM and you would have to ask them but I believe they are pleased with it and wanted to continue to have a presence in Atlantic City for their own strategic reasons.
And so while we would certainly be interested in having more of Borgata I am sure they would perhaps say the same thing.
So I think thats kind of how it lines up.
Sean just to echo what Josh said first of all MGM has been a great partner since the JV was created by prior to 03 and the property does quite well.
Would we be interested in buying the other half certainly I mean we have confidence in Atlantic City their confidence in that property.
If they came to us at the right price well look at it like any other acquisition its got to be the right price but we would be interested.
But MGM has been a great partner the property is running well and well continue to try to maximize the profitability out of that asset.
And then the other question I guess is sort of bigger picture but I mean perhaps along the same lines.
So it was already at the little bit about the whole GLPI pinnacle kind of concept in terms of what does the acquisition landscape.
But the other way to think about it is where they sort of kind of came out as a sort of financing source for different operators including yourself.
So I am curious I mean could you give us year-over-year your thoughts on your own cost of capital at this point? And would you ever consider -- would you reconsider sale leasebacks given where pricing on that deal ultimately sort of ended up? And how do you think about that construct? I dont think well comment specifically on the GLPI pinnacle transaction that was a transaction that made sense for both of those companies and they ultimately agreed to a price in a transaction that made sense for them.
And I think even as GLPI mentioned in their comments each company is different and each transaction will be different for them.
From our perspective I think we strictly make decisions based on what makes economic sense for us.
Our cost of capital has some competitive advantages versus a sale leaseback transaction but we have to -- it's hard to answer that question without knowing what the terms or the specifics are.
So I really cant go much beyond saying that.
Well evaluate whatever is available for us to consider.
The next question comes from Steve Wieczynski at Stifel.
So with downtown Vegas can I ask a question about -- you pointed out in the press release about the fuel cost going down.
Josh I dont know if there is any way could you quantify how much that helped the margin in the quarter? Steve I dont know that we can quantify sitting here today how much it helped the margin.
I mean we called it out because it was a factor in the overall increase in the profitability downtown it wasnt the factor it wasnt the majority it was a small piece but taking up first to call out.
And then with Borgata I know that your promotional spend there was down at descent amount you.
Can you just talk about environment in terms of what youre seeing there? And is that more a function of a lot of your competitors essentially not having money to spend or is it -- that something on year end in terms of making those decisions? I think that it is a combination I think both of us continuing to dial in our marketing programs and our marketing spend I think its a function of -- were getting an outsized I think portion of some of the displaced customers from the closures last year looking for a new home not all of that is rated place some of that is unrated.
So were seeing a benefit there in terms of when you look at dollars as a percentage.
I think part of it is generally speaking a fairly normal promotional environment on any given month or any given week competitors will do something a little more aggressive.
But generally it hasnt been too promotionally aggressive in Atlantic City.
So I think its a combination of factors.
Next question is from Thomas Allen Morgan Stanley.
Its Mark Savino on for Thomas.
Just digging into the Las Vegas locals market a bit further can you kind of give us your updated thoughts on the margin opportunity there? I mean obviously really solid revenue growth in the quarter and it looks like expenses were still down year-over-year.
So just wondering where youre finding the cost savings and is that something that we should expect to continue? Thank you.
I think the management team both in Las Vegas locals market as well as throughout the country weve done a great job taking cost out of this business.
And weve got a number of quarters in a row of increasing margins.
Every time we think were kind of at the end of that we challenge the team and they seem to come up with more.
And clearly all the low hanging fruit has been picked and every quarters that goes by its a little tougher and tougher to extract more savings yet the team is able to do it.
So are we at the end of road? No I dont think we are.
The current levels of margins are the current margins sustainable? Yes I think they are.
And well continue to push our operating teams to find new and creative ways to take cost out of the business.
Great.
Thats helpful.
And then just sort of switching gears just on capital allocation can you guys kind of help us understand how you are thinking about maybe prioritizing your use of capital going forward? Obviously there is a lot of other expansion and repositioning going underway right now but how should we think about those opportunities versus the opportunity to pay down debt.
And then I guess just in addition to that for projects like the Delta Downs expansion at a high level how should we think about the type of return that youre targeting from an investment like that.
Ill try to answer all of those questions; I am not very good at keeping up with the multiple questions in one.
Sorry I squeezed a few in there.
All right Ill give it a shot and then if I leave anything out just let me know.
I think from a kind of user free cash flow perspective we are using the repositioning capital opportunity to really improve the overall performance of the business and expecting when we look at that $45 million that weve allocated not every project will generate a return but we think as a bulk when you think about that $45 we have in mind kind of a level of return that we expect from that investment.
And so kind of excess return that we expect to get from that capital makes it worth investing and actually positions our properties long-term to be competitive and positions us long-term to kind of attract new customers and even in some cases are demographic that were not seeing today in big large amounts and that's at younger demographic as well.
So we see that capital in that overall program which is really kind of as weve talked about before really multiyear program really as much reinvesting in ourselves and position ourselves competitively today but also push is our strategic initiative for the longer term.
We expect to continue to stay focused on deleveraging and I know that can sound like were trying to do two things that are kind of [have opted] in but we expect to continue to pay down debt.
And key to that component is the part that youre seeing now were delivering higher levels of EBITDA all at the same time so while we may not pay down as much debt as we paid down in 2014 we are going to continue to pay down debt and thats going to be through managing how much we reinvest in these programs how successful those programs are as we watch them being rolled out and how successful we are in the core business.
In terms of Delta Downs we think of Delta Downs as more offense than defense.
Delta Downs right now is capacity constrained from a hotel product and from amenity standpoint and we think that adding the rooms and adding the amenities allows us to grow that business from where were at today.
So its offense its not defense and we will get a very healthy return on those capital dollars investment.
Our next question is from James [indiscernible] Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I guess just a few sort of outstanding things; now that you guys are sort of consistently profitable on [indiscernible] can you just remind us of your tax position and NOLs? We have just under $1 billion of NOLs 982 I think is the exact number.
Okay very good.
And obviously we talked for the Delta Downs expansion but with trends seeming to get better and EBITDA expectation is going up would you expect your sort of your maintenance capital to increase some and I guess specifically given the intention of increasing your smart purchases? No I think maintenance capital will stay pretty much where we've had it budgeted and where its been over the last year or two.
We have what I think is a fairly healthy amount of maintenance capital to keep our proprieties current and modern and competitive I dont see that going up at all.
So I think it's going to stay as is from a slot product standpoint weve had a fairly once again fairly consistent budget to find new products for [smart] I dont see that changing very much at all just because EBITDA is going up.
Very good.
And then just to circle back Josh on your commentary about potential acquisitions in the environment can you just tell us sort of big picture how you think about the balance sheet.
I know historically youve always said that an acquisition would have to sort of make sense strategically and be cash flow accretive but what is kind of your talents on leverage.
I mean youve guys have done a great job of paying down debt and starting to get leverage moving in the right direction.
Are you willing to pick leverage up again at this point or do you still want to get down to a lower number before doing a transaction? Yes I think transactions happen are things you cant really time.
So having kind of saying that and then putting it aside what I would say is is that kind of philosophically we would be looking to [indiscernible] take to something leverage neutral and hopefully be able to do things it would continue to be deleveraging for the company.
I think Peninsula is a great example of a strategic transaction generates a lot of free cash flow and was not leveraging to the company.
And for us continues to create opportunities going forward in terms of actually operating more efficiently and generating more free cash flow.
So I think people should look at Peninsula as an example.
I think our preference would be to do it under one balance sheet I think doing it under separate balance sheet is kind of complicated things.
But it made sense at the time.
So I am just trying to give you kind of how we think about it from a big picture framework perspective.
And depending on how strategic it is how significant of a transaction it is well try to work within those guide post I think.
The next question comes from Kevin Coyne Goldman Sachs.
Thanks for taking my questions most of them have been asked and answered.
But Josh as a follow up to what you just mentioned you have discussed combining the Peninsula restricted group with the Boyd restricted group in the past and with the 8 and 38 notes having a call price that just kept down.
Is it something we should expect in the near term or maybe you can give us some color on that? Kevin I guess it depends on what you define as near term.
But basically I would say that certainly with the call premium stepping down and depending on where the markets are when we are able to go to the market well just evaluate that in terms of what makes economic sense and kind of way the cost associated with the interest savings.
And then ultimately if it doesnt make sense today maybe with the step down and markets stay good for a while may make sense as we approach the next call step down which is when a step down makes all [indiscernible] par.
So I think sometime between now and that time period would be a generally reasonable expectation for us to consolidate the two balance sheets.
We definitely want to do it; we run the businesses as one today its just a matter of trying to simplify our balance sheet and capital structure by being able to take advantage of markets that made sense for us.
We dont feel like we need to kind of do something that doesnt make sense for us and so well be looking to do that when it does make economic sense.
Just housekeeping question since you gave us the NOL numbers.
I was just wondering do you have an updated restricted payment basket amount? No I may or may not but I am not giving it out.
And just one final one for just related to downtown can you remind us how many charters youre running now versus how many were running at the peak? Today we run four charters a week we used to run seven.
The way to think of it is as peak we move north of 100 000 people into Las Vegas on the charters today its south of 50 000 and thats because the commercial airlines have picked up the lift and therefore there is no reason for us to have the additional lift thats the reason its gone down it has nothing to do with kind of the structure of the business or anything else its just that when it was 100 000 because there wasnt enough commercial lift into the market.
Weve always kind of managed it based on the availability of capacity.
So would you say your rated play from Hawaii is flat? No rated play from Hawaii is up and once again they dont all come on our charters the people that are on our charters are rated players but there are just as an equal amount of rated players coming out in Hawaiian air or [indiscernible] United or all the other airlines we really -- we've been in the airline business for a few years now maybe a decade and if we could ever get out of it it would be great if there we had enough lift but they dont so.
And so the packages we sell are not just for our own charter and therefore they can combine and buy for other domestic carriers as well.
The next question comes from Carlos Santarelli Deutsche Bank.
As you guys think about the Las Vegas locals business and you think back to the peak years when it was in $300 plus million EBITDA business.
Clearly a lot has changed since then.
But as you think about how the markets evolved albeit with new supply and evolving consumer different competitive -- different types of competitive environment.
What do you guys think is kind of been new peak for your portfolio in that market relative to kind of the hay-day of the locals market? I think what we call is its an interesting question and its very difficult to answer given its really depending on the consumers behavior from here on out.
I think what we generally kind of thought of is that the number of people in our buildings hasnt really been the issue its been their willingness to spend.
And what were seeing is that trend starting to pick up and whether it kind of gains momentum or flat toes at some point its very difficult.
But I think as an intermediate kind of target for ourselves or as a way to kind of think about it is we felt like in 2008 2009 we were kind of 20% off of the peak in terms of ability to drive our business and so I think we feel like we can try to get to those levels overtime.
But it will be very dependent on how the consumer chooses to spend and how they develop and all of that stuff it's not going to happen overnight its a much longer kind of timeframe that we would be able to get those kind of levels.
Thank you Josh.
I know in the past youve provided some CapEx guidance for the year I believe when last we spoke it was 100 million for Boyd and 15 million in Peninsula maintenance and I want to say 45 million in project CapEx is it fair to just add the 10 million of Delta this year to that 45 and assume the maintenance stays the same? Yes thats exactly right.
You got the numbers correct and then you just add the 10 million to it for the Delta Downs project.
Time for one more question which will be from Chad Beynon at Macquarie.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Keith in your prepared remarks you highlighted some pretty incredible results down at the IP I believe you said 4 million of EBITDA over a 100% flow through and I know that you have owned the property now for three or four years and made some changes and there have been some additional changes just to the market.
I was wondering if you could provide some color around is this a one-time -- was this a one-time opportunity or do you think the team has done some things to really change the positioning of the property and we continue to see some outsized results that really move the needle for that region.
Thanks.
Yes I think it is the latter.
I think that the team has in the last couple of quarters done an exceptional job of repositioning it from a marketing standpoint and creating some efficiencies in some of those marketing programs that have been baked into the property for years.
Theyve doing a good job kind of managing other cost as well and once we have couple of quarters at this level under our belt and while we never kind of project a 100% plus flow throughs and I wouldnt carry that into the future I think we do project continued strong flow throughs at that property.
Okay.
Switching subjects one of your competitors are now talking about social [indiscernible] sports given the size of your database in the geographic reach could you give us your view on those segments of gaming/entertainment? On the fantasy sports side its an interesting conversation and as you look at the landscape across the U.S.
you have states that have made it clear that it is a legal activity within the state you have states that have made it clear that its not legal and other states that just have an aggressive words I refer to as kind of grey states.
When you listen to people talk about fantasy sports they use words like betting and making bets.
So in our view it is gambling at its core and should be regulated just like other forms of gambling today it is not.
And so thats kind of our view on that.
With respect to social games and social gaming I think it's something that weve been paying attention to we've dipped our toe in the water here and there obviously having a market leading position in online gaming in New Jersey where were interested in continuing to expand that and so were very interested in the social gaming aspect of it.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then Josh a housekeeping one The Appeals Court that upheld your property tax recently in Borgata with 63 million could you provide some guidance for when that payment comes into your bank? This is Keith Ill take that.
So it was a great move and obviously strengthened our case but it doesnt -- we dont have any more clarity on when we will get paid either that amount or the $88 million that was a settlement amount from last year.
So were still waiting to have some active dialog with the city or state on these matters and well update on it when we have but at this point we actually dont have any clarity on that.
This does conclude our question-and-answer session.
Id like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Hirsberg for closing remarks.
Thank you Amy and thank each one of you for joining the call today.
And should you have any other questions or follow up please feel free to call the company and well make ourselves available to address those questions.
Thanks for joining.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending todays presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Boyd Gaming Third Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Josh Hirsberg.
Mr.
Hirsberg please go ahead.
Thank you Amy.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our third quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call this afternoon is Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer.
Our comments today will include statements that are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of today's date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement.
There are certain risks and uncertainties that include but are not limited to those disclosed in our earnings release our periodic reports and our other filings with the SEC that may impact our results.
During our call today we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
For a complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the Investor Section of our website at boydgaming.com.
We do not provide a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures due to our inability to project special charges and certain expenses.
Finally today's call is also being webcast live at boydgaming.com and will be available for replay on the Investor Relations section of our website shortly after the completion of this call.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Keith.
Thanks Josh and good afternoon everyone.
Our third quarter was another successful quarter for our company because every segment of our business contributed to net revenue growth and an EBITDA increase of more than 20%.
These results demonstrate the continued effectiveness of our strategic plan as we delivered our fifth straight quarter of net revenue and EBITDA growth.
Across our operations we are driving profitable revenue growth achieving impressive flow through and increasing margins.
Our strong operating performance can be seen across the company as every segment of our business produced both revenue and EBITDA growth.
While consumers are healthier more confident and clearly demonstrating their willingness to spend we are doing more than simply taking advantage of this improved consumer sentiment.
We're actively driving growth in both our gaming and non-gaming business.
We refined our marketing programs to target profitable revenue growth and increase spend-per-trip.
And our ongoing investment strategy to enhance non-gaming amenities is directly targeted to capitalize on the consumer trends we are seeing across the portfolio.
And thanks to outstanding execution by our property operating teams revenue growth is flowing through to the bottom line as margins improved by 270 basis points across our wholly-owned business.
As a result we are generating significant free cash flow allowing us to both reinvest in the business and pay down debt to strengthen our financial position.
Let's take a look at what we saw in each of the segments of our business.
In Las Vegas our locals business posted its fourth quarter of revenue and EBITDA growth in the last five quarters.
Economic indicators in Southern Nevada continue to improve.
The local economy has added more than 20 000 jobs over the last 12 months led by 13% employment growth in the construction segment a critically important customer segment for us.
Job growth in the Las Vegas Valley has now outpaced the national average for 41 straight months.
Average wages have increased more than 6% for local residents so far this year.
And consumer spending is also up by more than 6% this year.
These positive trends are translating into increased levels of spending across the locals market.
And while our gaming business continues to grow with especially strong trends in table games play we also achieved solid growth away from the casino floor in our locals business.
Hotel room redesigns at The Orleans and Suncoast are generating a sold return on investment with double-digit gains in cash room rates at both properties.
And with major roadwork infrastructure projects now complete at Sam's Town and Suncoast we expect to see improved results at these properties.
Trends are equally encouraging in our Downtown Las Vegas business.
This segment produced its third consecutive quarter of revenue growth and its fifth straight quarter of EBITDA growth as each of our three downtown properties generated EBITDA gains of 20% or more.
During the third quarter we saw growth from all geographic segments of our downtown customer base including Las Vegas locals and Hawaiian residents.
Additionally our Hawaiian charter service continued to benefit from lower fuel costs which contributed 1.2 million to EBITDA during the quarter.
Looking outside of Las Vegas we saw continued strength in consumer spending throughout our regional markets as well.
And our management teams are doing an excellent job efficiently managing the business focusing on driving profitable revenue growth while keeping costs in line.
Across the Midwest and South and Peninsula segments we improved margins by a combined 230 basis points and grew EBITDA by more than 11%.
Some of the highlights in this segment include in Indiana Blue Chip continues to be one of the company's top performers posting its fifth straight quarter of revenue and EBITDA growth.
With a compelling selection of restaurants nightlife live entertainment and upscale hotel rooms Blue Chip is well positioned to capitalize on consumer trends.
Our property management team is taking full advantage of these amenities driving growth in both gaming and non-gaming revenues.
Blue Chip saw increases in both frequency and spend-per-visit as the property grew market share for the seventh straight quarter.
To the west in Iowa our market-leading product at Diamond Jo Dubuque delivered a similarly strong performance with its fourth straight quarter of revenue and EBITDA growth.
Near Wichita the Kansas Star has grown revenue and EBITDA for four consecutive quarters as well.
The property's management team is making the most of last year's expansions to its hotel and events that are successfully leveraging these amenities to drive increased visitation and revenue.
And thanks to additional refinements to operations and marketing programs Kansas Star improved their margins by another 170 basis points during the third quarter.
Over in Louisiana Delta Downs continues to perform well against increased capacity in the market.
The property nearly matched last year's record EBITDA performance during the third quarter and actually achieved record EBITDA for the month of September.
Outside of New Orleans Treasure Chest increased revenue achieved double-digit EBITDA growth and expanded market share for the fourth straight quarter.
In Biloxi the IP recoded its fifth straight quarter of EBITDA gains as continued revenue growth drove a 38% EBITDA increase.
While table games volumes remains strong the IP is now generating a much stronger profit from its slot business as refinements we have made to our marketing programs continue to show results.
Last but certainly not least let's review Borgata.
With $76 million in EBITDA Borgata had the single best quarter in its 12-year history.
Although it is important to note that this performance was aided by very strong table game hold.
Revenues increased 13% while EBITDA increased nearly 34%.
Gross gaming revenue was up nearly 14% year-over-year but this performance reflects more than simply strong table hold.
Borgata saw increases in both table and slot volumes and achieved an all-time record for monthly slot win in July.
Borgata also achieved solid growth in its non-gaming business.
We saw increases in both occupancy and cash room rates; our food and beverage business performed well and we continue to see strong interest in our live entertainment product.
The property also benefited from a solid quarter in our online gaming business which generated 3.4 million in EBITDA during the quarter.
Borgata has been the market leader every single month since launching online gaming in November of 2013 with a net worth market share of 31% so far this year.
As the region's leading entertainment destination Borgata continues to outperform the competition increasing market share by nearly 500 basis points year-over-year in Atlantic City and then more than 90 basis points in the broader Northeast region.
Thanks to the significant reinvestments and enhancements we've made at the Borgata over the last 18 months the gap continues to widen.
So all in all this was an excellent quarter for our company's operations.
Across the country in every segment of our business we are achieving profitable revenue growth.
And through a disciplined focus on cost containment our management teams continue to drive that revenue growth to the bottom line.
But our strategy is about more than just refining our existing operations.
We are actively laying the groundwork to keep growing the business through our strategic initiative of reinvestment in non-gaming amenities.
With properties like Borgata Blue Chip and Kansas Star we are showing how compelling amenities can be leveraged to drive new visitation expanded market share and increase spend-per-visit.
We believe we can replicate that success elsewhere in our portfolio.
And so far we are seeing promising results from the first three projects in this growth initiative.
Our first two projects were the California Noodle House and The Filament Bar in Downtown Las Vegas.
And during the third quarter both of these projects generated strong cash business and successfully attracted new customers to the California and Freemont respectively.
And since opening in early September our new casual fine dining restaurant at Evangeline Downs The Spotted Horse has significantly outperformed the outlet it replaced and is attracting new customers to the property as well.
Over the next several months we have five additional projects scheduled to debut across the country.
At Evangeline Downs we're working on a new pub and entertainment venue located in the center of the casino floor.
At the Suncoast in Las Vegas we will be opening a new oyster bar in mid November.
At our flagship Las Vegas property The Orleans we have started a complete remodel and upgrade of the property's F&amp;B amenities.
This effort will include a new signature fine dining restaurant and a new Asia concept restaurant both scheduled to open in the next several months.
In our Delta Downs we have officially broken ground on our $45 million expansion project.
Over the next 14 months we will be adding a 167 room hotel tower redesigning our existing 200 hotel rooms and expanding our special events center.
We will also be redesigning our F&amp;B amenities starting with a new casual fine dining restaurant early next year.
There's a significant amount of work now underway and even more projects in the pipeline.
And I look forward to sharing more details with you as these efforts continue across the country.
While our amenity initiative is an important part of our long term growth strategy it is important to note that these investments are not compromising our ability to pay down debt as we continue to use free cash flow to de-leverage the balance sheet.
In summary by every metric this was another successful quarter for our company.
We are generating solid revenue growth across the country through disciplined cost management and operational excellence.
We are driving revenue growth to the bottom line and producing outsized EBITDA gains.
We continue to focus on enhancing our amenities positioning our properties to continue generating revenue and EBITDA growth well within the future.
And we are using our significant free cash flow to both reinvest in our properties and pay down debt further strengthening our balance sheet.
We are continuing to make good progress and I'm encouraged by the direction of our company.
With that I want to thank you for your time today and I will turn the call over to Josh.
Thanks Keith.
During the quarter we continued our focus on debt reduction reducing our balances in total by approximately $60 million between Boyd and Peninsula.
And at Borgata we paid down an additional $34 million of debt.
That brings our year-to-date debt reduction to approximately $220 million including $78 million at Borgata.
Our quarter end debt and cash balances were provided in our earnings release.
In terms of capital expenditures during the quarter we invested $29 million in our wholly owned properties.
Year-to-date that number is $87 million.
Our expansion project at Delta Downs is underway and we expect to spend about $6 million this year most of which will be spent in the fourth quarter.
And the remaining $39 million of the project's capital expenditure budget will be invested in 2016.
This project is slated to be completed by year end 2016.
Separately Borgata's capital expenditures were $6 million during the quarter and $21 million year-to-date.
In terms of EBITDA guidance we are raising our guidance to incorporate third quarter performance and the trends in our business.
For the full year 2015 we now expect to report adjusted EBITDA which includes 50% of Borgata's EBITDA in the range of $610 million to $620 million.
This guidance incorporates the following expectations.
In the Las Vegas locals segment we expect our Las Vegas locals business to grow EBITDA by about 7% for the full year; an increase from our previous expectations of 5% to 5.5%.
For our downtown business we expect full year EBITDA to grow about 25% over 2014 levels.
And in the Midwest and South and Peninsula segments we expect to grow full year EBITDA on a combined basis by about 10%.
At Borgata we are increasing our EBITDA expectations to 190 [audio gap] to $195 million for the year of which we will record 50% of this EBITDA in our results.
As an aside at this level of EBITDA Borgata's leverage will approximate 3.5 times.
In August Borgata refinanced its 9.78% secured notes with $420 million from a new $650 million term loan commitment.
The remaining $230 million of term loan commitments will be used as necessary to refinance its existing term loan should Borgata decide to retire that loan within the next 12 months.
Retiring Borgata's 9.78% secured notes saves over $12 million in interest expense annually.
In conclusion this was another very good quarter for our company.
We are successfully driving profitable revenues while continuing to focus on controlling costs.
Our investments in non-gaming amenities are paying off driving more visits from our existing customers and attracting new customers to our business.
And we remain focused on using our free cash flow to reduce debt.
That concludes our formal remarks.
And Amy we are now ready to take any questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Joel Simkins at Credit Suisse.
Yes.
Hey good morning guys or good afternoon and congratulations on the quarter.
I guess Keith and Josh can you just give us a sense of the Las Vegas locals market in competitive levels versus some of major peers in that market? Do you expect it to remain fairly rational? And obviously with the top line in that market still being well below trend I mean do you think there is room to see a real acceleration in GGR in that market? Thanks Joel.
Regarding the Las Vegas locals market if you're talking about the promotional level in the market I think it's been fairly stable.
Over the last several quarters we haven't seen anything unusual.
So I don't foresee that changing.
I don't foresee us doing anything unusual.
So I think everything there is pretty normal.
With respect to GGR and the pace of GGR growth I guess I'd say two things.
One is I think as a company that our core [ph] properties have room to continue to improve there.
I don't think we've maybe performed as well as we could.
So I think there's room for us to grow.
I think in terms of the market's overall growth I don't know that I see an acceleration of the current trajectory.
I don't see a deceleration of that but I don't see an acceleration of the current trajectory.
I think we would expect to see continued growth in the market at about the same levels we are seeing now.
And a couple of quick follow-ups I guess the first is Las Vegas Sands commented on some strength in group demand in corporate.
So it seems like Vegas room rates are trending in the right direction.
I guess do you sense the continued opportunity to really pass along some rate growth at your properties that are little closer to the strip? And then just another side question kind of turning to  excuse me fantasy sports.
Obviously there's been a lot of noise there.
Do you think that ultimately drives the conversation around regulated sports betting and is that something you think can start to get traction? Well with respect to room rates historically as the strip has been able to leverage up their room rates at properties like the Gold Coast and New Orleans.
We clearly have been able to.
We do see that business.
We do have a significant amount of meeting and convention space at The Orleans.
And we've seen good demand for that space.
And once again we've seen double-digit increases in cash rates at those properties.
We are also seeing strong growth in cash rates at the Suncoast as result of a recent rooms' remodel that was completed at that property.
And we're seeing double-digit increases in room rates I think for two reasons; one a better product that people are willing to pay for and two once again just higher demand in town.
So we will continue to leverage that up and I do see those opportunities moving into the future.
Regarding DFS or Daily Fantasy Sports we had touched on this I think last time we were on the call and it's clear to me now and it was clear to me then that this is gambling.
It needs to be regulated.
It needs to be gotten under control if you will.
How it impacts sports betting around the country I think is a completely conversation.
That would require the repeal of PASPA and is a much different effort.
I think the first focus is to make sure that fantasy sports is viewed for what it is which is gambling and that it is regulated and that no more scandals appear in that product because I think any of those scandals serve to hurt us overall as a gaming industry.
Sure.
Thank you guys.
Our next question is from Felicia Hendrix of Barclays.
Hi good afternoon thanks.
Hi Josh thanks for all the color regarding your updated guidance.
Just regarding the upside to the fourth quarter consensus implied by your guidance is that being driven more from higher than expected revenues versus the last time you gave guidance? Is it better flow through? If your answer is a combination of both maybe you can just help us to work through where the biggest surprise or change is coming from? Let me try to answer the question.
I think when we look at where Q3 came out relative to the guidance we had provided it was really a combination of two or three factors.
I would say first really all of our segments performed a little better than we expected.
Some more than others but generally all contributed to the performance in the quarter.
I would say flow through was a 100% plus and that was not something that we really expected to occur.
I mean when we gave commentary around the second half for the year we spoke about a more normalized run rate a flow through of 65% to 70%.
And we generally continue to believe that for this year at least.
And so having a 100% flow through in the Q3 period certainly benefited us to the upside.
We wouldn't expect that to continue in to Q4.
And then lastly obviously we benefited from whole percentage as well at Borgata.
I think when provided the guidance for the second half of the year we also had already built-in some growth rate  growth expectations.
And so that - all those things are factoring in into what we're thinking about as we provide the guidance for the full year.
I think the final comment is in terms of revenue growth across the business I would say the revenue growth was largely in line with what we expected.
We were just much more efficient in bringing a lot more of that to the bottom line and that's a contribution to the success we've made in the cost structure of the business overall in terms of we've always said if we got revenue growth we would have some significant flow through associated with it.
But our operations guys have continued to do a great job of not only just taking cost and driving profitable revenue associated with that revenue but also doing a really good job of just taking cost out of business generally and continuing to focus on that aspect of our business.
And that's what's been able to add up somewhat of a multiplier effect for us in the last couple of quarters.
I don't know if there's anything else other to add than those things there as we think about the rest of the year.
Are you guys willing to quantify the benefit of hold in Atlantic City? Yes Felicia.
This is Keith.
It is worth about year-over-year $12 million to us.
And obviously half of that is in our numbers.
12 million was to the Borgata as a 100% entity.
That's correct.
So it's about half of the performance.
Yes thank you.
And then just Keith in your prepared remarks when you talked about the conclusion of the roadwork at Sam's Town in Suncoast it sounded like those properties haven't yet started to benefit from that.
Is that correct? Or was there some benefit in the quarter from that? No really there was no benefit in the quarter.
It was wrapped up late in the quarter.
We just recently started trying to re-engage with those customers now that they can actually have a clear path to the property.
And so we'd expect better performance out of those two properties in Q4 and into 2016.
So there was nothing in the quarter from those two properties.
Okay great.
But Felicia just to add to Keith's comments those properties to a certain extent did have growth year-over-year in terms of EBITDA.
So they contributed to the performance in the quarter as well.
Okay helpful.
Thanks for the clarification.
Thank you.
Next question is from Thomas Allen at Morgan Stanley.
Hey.
If we look at regional and GGR in general it looked like July was really strong August we saw declines and September bounced back a little bit.
Do you see similar trends in your business and any thoughts on why that would've happened? And then if you could give us any color on October that would be helpful too.
Thank you.
Sure.
So I think as you look at the third quarter the volatility if you will between the months is all driven by the calendar.
It actually is  there's a pretty direct connection between the movement of the calendar picking up a weekend day in July means a lot and losing a weekend day in August and losing Labor Day in August and that being pushed into September makes a huge difference.
So it really wasn't anything other than that.
There were no other unusual trends in the business at least in our business that we noticed on a month-to-month basis.
Clearly it was just a calendar issue.
And I'm sorry your second question was? Is just around any thoughts around October or comments? The trends in October that we're seeing thus far we are consistent with what we saw in Q3 and Q2.
The business continues to perform at similar levels.
And so that's what our expectation is and that's what built in our guidance for Q4 is the business continuing to perform at these levels from a revenue standpoint.
Okay.
And then just around New Jersey online gaming there was a significant step up in the EBITDA that you generated in the third quarter.
I think it was more than you generated in the first half of the year.
Any  it was slightly strange given the fact that summers in U.S.
is seasonally slower time for online gaming.
Do you think  what's really changed? And do you think we can continue to see step ups from these levels? I think we're still learning a lot about that business being only really the second year in operation.
And I think we're learning to market more effectively.
I think we're understanding how best to incent customers and who to incent and not to over incent those customers.
I wouldn't take the performance of Q3 and multiple it by 4 and say that's a new run rate for the business.
I think we just had a very strong quarter there in terms of the way it all came together.
And you're right I think when you look at the first two quarters we made $2.7 million 2.8 million or so and Q3 exceeded that.
I really don't have an estimate here for Q4 but I would not simply take Q3 and multiple it by 4.
And PokerStars will be opening sometime in the fourth quarter.
At least that's our expectation.
They have been licensed and so we'd expect that they would open in Q4.
And they will have an impact on the market.
We expect that they will grow market somewhat.
We expect that they will take a little bit of our share on the poker side.
The good news is on the casino side which is where we make the bulk of our revenue and profit.
We don't expect it to impact us.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Carlos Santarelli at Deutsche Bank.
Hi guys.
Just a question on corporate expense you'd previously guided to 65 million for the year.
Obviously that run rate is considerably lower right now.
So if you wouldn't mind could you provide some color on the guide on that? And maybe within that if you could address the higher levels of spend in the 4Q and the 1Q which if I recall regarded to some of exploration you were doing around the REIT and maybe provide an update as to where that stands.
So I guess in terms of the corporate expense run rate I think it would be reasonable to expect it to be a little bit less.
I mean I think we had got it to 65 so now maybe it's 60 million to 63 million overall.
But that would be certainly incorporated in the overall annual guidance that we provided.
And I think we gave enough detail in terms of those segments that you could kind of figure out approximately what we're thinking about in terms of corporate expense.
So I think hopefully you have enough pieces of the puzzle to put that together and satisfy your curiosity.
I think in terms of  what was the other  I'm not sure if I answered all your questions Carlos? No I was looking for more color on  obviously the spend within corporate expense has slowed.
And if I recall in the 4Q and the 1Q 4Q '14 and 1Q of '15 some of that incremental spend was related to the REIT exploration work that you guys were doing.
And I was just wondering if you could comment on where we are in that process and how you're thinking about that at this point? Well a couple of things.
I'm not sure that we spent all of that money in those two quarters.
I just don't recall but I'm pretty sure we didn't because it was a longer term effort.
I would say that our comments on the REIT are pretty much consistent with what we've consistently said which is we don't have any real update at this point on our views of the REIT or how that impacts our business.
So nothing really new to update on that at this point.
Understood.
Thanks Josh.
Sure Carlos.
Our next question comes from Chris Jones at Union Gaming.
Excellent thank you.
Just two quick questions here; first we see these sort of margin performance particularly with the locals market in Vegas.
Really the most common question we get is how high can it go? Is there any reason to believe that you can't get to the 22%-23%  33%-32% level that you saw in the prior peaks? That's my first one.
And then my second one would be do you guys have a target leverage multiple that you are looking for at this point given how much that you've paid down where you think you guys are going towards? Thank you.
With respect to margin improvement and margin performance look we will continue to drive it as high as we can.
I think we've made great progress in the last four or five quarters.
We'll continue to focus on that whether it's in the Las Vegas locals market or other markets around the country.
Can we get back to those peak margin levels of 2006-2007? I'm certainly not sure but we're going to try like hell to get there.
But we won't see the peak revenues we saw in '06 and '07 so it makes it a little more challenging to get to those margin levels.
But we'll continue to focus on it every day and every week and every month.
The team is doing a great job.
I think we'll continue to make progress on it.
Yes Chris in terms of your other question before I get to it and kind of related to margins is that I think part of it has to do with the revenue side of the equation.
And the other part has to do with the cost side obviously.
And we continue to see opportunity to take cost out of our business.
And so that's kind of a related topic in terms of our ability to continue to drive margins.
It's not just about continuing to get revenue and being dependent on a stronger consumer.
We continue to believe that we have cost opportunities in our business and we're working on those as Keith mentioned every day to really lay the groundwork for '16 and '17.
In terms of target leverage which I think was your other questions.
We've pretty consistently said below five times that's where we want to be.
And that's where we're working toward.
We're balancing that objective with the success we're having investing in non-gaming amenities and spending on our properties to attract more visits from existing customers and drive new customers to our business.
And we're having a lot of success with that.
So we're balancing the excess cash flow that we're getting from our business both the existing business as well as the growing business to reinvest in our business but also stay focused on paying down debt.
Great.
And just one quick follow-up on the cost side have you started to see any pressures on wage growth? It certainly has been a growing topic and some pockets of wage growth have really started to become pretty significant any comments on that? I would not say there was insignificant wage growth pressure.
I think there are certainly pockets for specific skill sets or specific jobs.
We're seeing more of a struggle if you will or more of a challenge in just finding quality team members.
In many of our markets unemployment rates are 5% or less.
Which is virtually full employment people who want to have a job have job at that point.
And so that's our larger struggle but it's not driven necessarily or solely by rate.
It's really just finding quality team members.
Perfect.
Thank you guys.
Thanks Chris.
Our next question is from Shaun Kelley at Bank of America.
Hi this is Barry Jonas.
Can you maybe give a little more color on what you're seeing within the different segments of the database in regards to visitation and play trends? Sure.
So as we look across the database and these comments are fairly consistent across the different segments of the business whether it be in the locals market here in Las Vegas or the downtown market or regional markets outside of Nevada.
We're seeing good strong growth in our upper tier and our mid tier which makes sense because we are focused on driving profitable revenues and that's where that customer lives.
We are seeing flattish results from a visitation and a spend level from the entry level tier.
So and once again [audio gap] that makes sense to us but we are seeing good growth and good spend levels good growth and spend-per-visitor going in for a visitor or going in for a visit from our mid number tiers.
Great.
And then just I think last year we had a fairly mild winter just wondering if you can comment about how you are factoring in maybe a more normal winter this year in Q4 as you start thinking about 2016? Yes.
We have basically assumed that we would have a more normal winter in the fourth quarter.
So we would expect it not from a weather prospect to be a little bit more difficult but we haven't forecasted our estimate or included in our guidance or estimates the kind of significant weather disruption that we saw in late 2013 and early 2014.
So just more normal weather as compared to what we saw last year.
Thanks so much.
You are welcome.
The next question comes from David Katz at Telsey Advisory Group.
Hi afternoon all.
I am not sure if you gave us a breakdown of total CapEx and maintenance CapEx and where it is allocated for the quarter? And then I have a follow-up.
We gave some CapEx numbers.
I am happy to give you  repeat some of those and give you kind of where we think the year is going to end up and if that doesn't answer all your questions just let me know.
So Boyd and Peninsula combined year-to-date we spent about $87 million about 29 of that was spent in Q3.
And we  as best we can tell we expect to spend about 20 to 25 million in Q4 for Boyd and Peninsula asset so ending up about 115 for the year.
At Borgata we spent about 6 million during Q3 and that brings our CapEx for Borgata to $21 million and I would say we are thinking $27 million to $28 million for the full year at Borgata.
Got it.
I'm definitely sensing some enthusiasm for growth projects and property enhancement projects can you just talk about what your philosophy or your tolerance is for putting more projects in the pipeline? And obviously no strategy is absolute but how big how much and should we always expect to see some debt pay down quarter-after-quarter with things moving along and progressing so nicely? Yes.
So David the  and Keith will jump in if I leave anything out but basically the projects that we are talking about are all part of initiative that we announced toward the end of 2014 and that we have been executing on in 2015 of about $45 million.
When we announced that program we basically said that we would evaluate the amenities as we roll them out to make sure they were delivering successfully.
And to the extent that continued and continued to be a way to capture how customers were spending dollars we would continue to  in that effort.
I would say that what we are seeing in our business is consumers are willing to continue to spend on non-gaming amenity.
And so that accept of our strategy and what we have chosen to deploy capital on is playing out for us.
It seems to be building on itself.
And at the same time we are starting to see gaming revenues grow which partly are attributable to the success we are having on the non-gaming side but also just strengthening the consumer generally.
And so I think we will continue to deploy capital in a measured way going forward as we continue to see it play out.
If we start to see that it is not working any longer we are not going to keep doing it.
It's as much on the trends of our business as well as on our guys to continue to execute on the capital we are providing them to deploy into the business.
Our objective is to continue to pay down debt but there is going to be that natural tension between the business getting better our investments paying off and the growth in that business being used to either re-invest in our business or pay down debt.
Perfect.
Does that help? Very much sir.
Thanks a lot.
Good.
The next question is from James Keller Bank of America.
Hey guys.
How are doing? Good.
Hi James.
Hey Josh.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Just on the balance sheet side obviously we have reacted paying down debt to relatively high cost bonds outstanding still one is callable but one becomes callable next year.
What are your thoughts around the potential of being active in the capital markets? Yes.
I think we serve  well I will answer it a couple of ways.
Number one is our objective has been consistently to combine the balance sheets of Boyd and Peninsula.
And obviously the attractiveness of refinancing Peninsula's debt improved with the August step down.
And it gets even better with the passage of time.
So we just evaluate the opportunity to save some interest if market conditions warrant it versus the cost of refinancing that debt.
And so that's something we look at quite frequently to understand.
I would expect us to do that when the market conditions are right and it makes sense economically for us and so that could be anytime from today to say a year from now or so.
So that's how we kind of look at the Peninsula refinancing.
And just to reiterate it is something that we would expect to do.
From the perspective of Boyd's bonds the 2020s they become callable in the middle of next year and they are 9% coupon.
So we would  given favorable market conditions we would look to refinance those as well.
So we believe we have opportunities to reduce costs on the interest side of things and continue to maintain flexibility within our balance sheet to support the growth and development of the company.
And so we will be looking to do that as some of the market conditions warrant.
We can be a little bit more opportunistic.
And we have time on our side and we look for conditions that kind of make sense for us with everything else we have under consideration.
Very good.
On the business side obviously Delta Downs has performed well and you guys have a favorable outlook with the hotel.
Has that market changed at all as the oil and gas slowdown has sort of continued longer than maybe some people had thought originally or are you seeing kind of the same resiliency that you have seen so far? There has been no real significant change in the market.
The market has been very resilient.
What's really driving that market are the tremendous number of projects in the Lake Charles area some  last time I checked $70 billion of projects for the oil and gas or LNG business.
And they are looking for some 35 000 additional permanent residents in the area.
This is tremendous building boom going on in the region.
So it continues to be a very very robust market whether the customer is coming out of Houston or customers that are in the Lake Charles and surrounding communities.
All right.
I get it.
Last question a little bit of a bank shot can you just comment about what you expect your slot budget  your slot purchase budget to be like next year? Sure same as this year.
Flat up or down? Flat? He said same as this year if you didn't hear him.
Yes yes very good.
So flat year-over-year.
Okay thank you.
Thanks James glad that you got to ask some questions.
The next question is from Adam Trivison at Gabelli &amp; Company.
Hey thanks for taking my question.
I just was wondering if you could provide an update on how you are thinking about M&amp;A given some of the volatility in the market over the last couple of months.
I would say our view regarding M&amp;A really hasn't changed.
I think we have been pretty consistent in our view that we feel like it's been a historical way the company has grown.
We continue to view that as a way to grow the company going forward and I would say that we are looking at as many opportunities today as we were several years ago.
So I think the opportunities for us are there.
We have a pretty disciplined approach.
So it's not that there are a lack of things to buy it's that kind of the right things that fit our framework to buy that has not been there for us and that really resolves around having some strategic rational for the company being able to generate a lot of free cash flow vis--vis leverage neutral or de-leveraging and to be able to be acquired at a value that we think is fair representative of the assets or strategic implications of the assets that we are acquiring.
I think what Josh said was really important in that we have a set of standards that we look to it has to do with size of the asset size of free cash flow quality of the asset the market that it's in and how does it kind of add to the overall portfolio of the company and move the company forward.
So there are a lot of things to buy out there today.
It's not just about price.
It's about several other factors.
So we are still actively engaged in looking at things.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Sure thanks Adam.
Our next question comes from Susan Berliner at JPMorgan.
Hi good afternoon.
Hey Su.
I just wanted to ask with regards to Borgata if you can update us at all on tax refunds that you are out there.
And then secondly on Borgata with the leverage getting so low can you talk about I guess putting in a dividend in place at some point? Sure.
So regarding the property tax situation not much has changed since our last call.
We had won a ruling from an Appeal's Court at the City had  I have appealed it in he Supreme Court but we are still waiting for the Supreme Court to determine if they are going to hear the City's appeal.
And we are still waiting to have meaningful conversation with the City on the ultimate resolution of this so really not much more to report than last time.
I will let Josh talk about the leverage levels and potential dividends from that entity.
Yes with so respect to that I mean we are on a run rate to pay down over  well we paid down $78 million of debt today leverage is right at 3.5 times and I think we will manage the leverage levels of the business to the expectations of the expansion of gaming.
We want to continue to de-leverage the business.
We will continue to use free cash flow to accomplish that and then we will balance where all that shakes out with the prospects of expanding gaming and the distributions that can be made under various debt documents.
So my expectation is that Borgata will continue to pay down debt and we will be in position some time in next year to start to make distributions to its partners because of the strength of the business where it's balance sheet is and quite honestly we feel like any change in the competitive environment is going take quite some time.
We don't see the competitive environment really changing and we see Borgata's position really strengthening over the next several years.
And so that's the perspective that we approach in.
Perfect.
Thanks so much.
Sure.
We have time for one more question and that question is from Andrew Berg at Post Advisory Group.
Hey Josh this is Andrew.
Just going back to your guidance did you guys  and I got a little bit late; did you guys say how much of that guidance was coming from Borgata versus the rest of the business? We basically said guidance of 610 to 620 with an expectation of Borgata being $190 million to $195 million.
And what was that in  in versus the prior quarter when I think you were roughly 575? I think it was around  I am an older guy now so I don't remember that well but I think it was around 185 or so.
Okay.
Thanks.
Sure.
Thanks Andrew.
This concludes the question-and answer-session.
Would you like to make any closing remarks? No Amy.
Thank you everyone for joining the call.
And if you have any follow-up questions we will be happy to try to answer those for you just give us a call at the company.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to the Boyd Gaming Fourth Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please also note that today's event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Mr.
Josh Hirsberg Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Sir please go ahead.
Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</strong> Thank you Jamie.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call this afternoon is Keith Smith our President and Chief Executive Officer.
Our comments today will include statements that are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act including statements regarding our guidance for full year 2016.
All forward-looking statements in our comments are as of today's date and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement.
There are certain risks and uncertainties that include but are not limited to those disclosed in our earnings release our periodic reports and our other filings with the SEC that may impact our results.
During our call today we will make reference to non-GAAP financial measures.
For a complete reconciliation of historical non-GAAP to GAAP financial measures please refer to our earnings press release and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC today and both of which are available in the Investors section of our website at boydgaming.com.
We do not provide a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures due to our inability to project special charges and certain expenses.
Finally today's call is also being webcast at boydgaming.com and will be available for replay on the Investor Relations section of our website shortly after the completion of this call.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Keith Smith.
Keith? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Josh and good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call.
The fourth quarter was a strong conclusion to a year of solid progress for our company.
Thanks to the continued execution of our strategic plan the strong focus of our management teams and a healthier consumer we achieved revenue growth and double-digit EBITDA growth in every single quarter of 2015.
We have also improved margins for seven straight quarters as company EBITDA margins increased nearly 280 basis points in the fourth quarter.
Across the country our property management teams continue to do an excellent job.
Let's take a few minutes to walk through what they achieved in each segment of the business during the quarter.
I'll start with Las Vegas which continues to be an encouraging market for our company.
The Southern Nevada economy continues to strengthen with a steadily improving labor and income picture.
Total employment grew nearly 3% in 2015 with gains in every major job sector while unemployment fell to a seven year low.
Average weekly wages were up 4% one of the strongest growth rates in the country.
The Southern Nevada housing market continues to trend positively with growth in both sales and prices.
Construction activity is accelerating with more than $10 billion in projects now in the pipeline across Las Vegas Valley.
This is driving strong growth in construction employment which increased more than 14% last year and the local economy is benefiting from record visitation.
Last year Las Vegas hosted more than 42 million visitors up nearly 3% from the year before.
These positive trends are contributing to strong growth in both gaming and non-gaming revenues throughout our Las Vegas business helping drive our strongest fourth quarter results in eight years.
During the fourth quarter we saw growth in every geographic segment of our customer base and grew our share of the Locals market as well.
We also continue to make the most of our revenue gains with strong flow through across our Locals portfolio.
EBITDA increased nearly 11% in the segment during the fourth quarter as operating margins improved more than 150 basis points.
Within our Las Vegas Locals market The Orleans remains a great story producing EBITDA growth of nearly 20% thanks to solid broad-based revenue gains.
With the recent completion of our hotel remodel of The Orleans we were able to fully leverage our 1 900 hotel rooms and drive incremental business to the casino floor contributing to 7% growth in gaming revenues.
The enhanced room product directly contributed to non-gaming revenue growth as well with an 11% gain in cash ADR at The Orleans.
We're also seeing strength elsewhere in our Locals portfolio as both Sam's Town and Gold Coast delivered strong EBITDA gains.
Suncoast achieved growth in business volumes as well during the quarter but saw EBITDA decline year-over-year due to lower slot hold.
Next in our Downtown Las Vegas segment we achieved 23% EBITDA growth on 5% higher revenues.
Our Hawaiian business remained steady and growth in pedestrian traffic and visitation throughout the Downtown area is driving significant gains in our casual and unrated play.
Additionally lower fuel costs at our Hawaiian charter service contributed about $800 000 to this segment  to segment EBITDA during the quarter.
Moving outside of Nevada we continue to see steady growth across our regional business as EBITDA rose nearly 5% on a combined basis in our Midwest and South and Peninsula segments.
Once again Blue Chip continues to be one of our company's strongest performers with 6% revenue growth and year-over-year EBITDA increase of more than 20%.
This was Blue Chip's sixth straight quarter of revenue and EBITDA growth and its eighth quarter of increased market share.
Despite significant competition throughout its region the Blue Chip team continues to leverage their market leading amenities to deliver exceptional results.
Most of our customers have closer gaming options but they continue to choose Blue Chip because of its compelling entertainment product and outstanding customer service.
In Illinois Par-A-Dice continues to be challenged by the continued expansion of video gaming throughout the State.
There are now 22 000 video gaming machines in operation in Illinois including nearly 4 000 in Par-A-Dice's immediate market.
That's equivalent to three new riverboat casinos in our market alone.
Not surprisingly this is having a significant impact on Par-A-Dice with EBITDA down $1.3 million during the quarter.
The picture is brighter in the neighboring State of Iowa.
Marketing refinements and a competitive product drove EBITDA growth of 10% at Diamond Jo Dubuque which has outpaced the State in gaming revenue growth for the last three quarters.
We also achieved solid revenue and EBITDA growth at Diamond Jo Worth.
In Mississippi we saw revenue and EBITDA growth at both the IP and Sam's Town Tunica.
For the IP it was the property's fourth straight quarter of both top and bottom line growth as EBITDA grew more than 20% year-over-year.
And while the Tunica market continues to face its share of challenges the team at Sam's Town also delivered both revenue and EBITDA growth thanks to refinements in marketing and operations.
In Louisiana Treasure Chest continued a string of exceptional quarterly performances with growth in table and slot volumes as well as higher guest counts Treasure Chest delivered its fifth straight quarter of revenue growth market share growth and double-digit EBITDA gains with EBITDA increasing 15% year-over-year in the fourth quarter.
To the West Delta Downs has successfully adapted to new competition matching last year's fourth quarter EBITDA performance while improving operating margins by more than 70 basis points.
When comparing to last year's results remember that Delta Downs didn't face new competition until December 2014 making this year's performance even more impressive.
And in the face of this new competition for the full year Delta Downs showed an EBITDA decline of less than $900 000.
That's an outstanding performance by our properties management team as they demonstrated their ability to effectively compete in the expanded Lake Charles market.
Next in Kansas positive trends continued at the Kansas Star as the property overcame ice storms during two of the quarter's busiest weekends to achieve its fifth straight quarter of revenue and EBITDA growth.
And lastly in Atlantic City Borgata delivered yet another great performance with 8% revenue growth and a 27% year-over-year EBITDA increase.
Higher table hold accounted for about one half of our EBITDA growth in the quarter but Borgata saw strong increases in business volumes as well.
Borgata set fourth quarter records for gross slot win and hotel rooms occupied and we set an all-time record for quarterly market share of just over 30% of the Atlantic City market.
The results are a reflection of the Borgata team's continued success in leveraging our market-leading product and amenities.
No one in the gaming property in the Northeast region can match the breadth and quality of the Borgata experience.
Our gaming our dining our live entertainment our hotel products and most importantly our exceptional customer service delivered by an exceptional group of team members.
Our unique brand of hospitality gives Borgata a significant edge over the competition.
But we don't take that for granted.
We continue to invest in this brand by constantly innovating and upgrading our product.
And over the next 12 months to 14 months Borgata is set to debut a number of new amenities to ensure we remain the market leader.
In the next few months we will take Borgata's live entertainment to a new level by adding a new nightlife experience as well as a new outdoor pool area featuring outdoor dining and entertainment.
Along the same timeline Borgata will add a fast casual dining venue called The Marketplace Eatery featuring cuisines from around the world.
Early next year we'll be adding 25 000 square feet to Borgata's convention space further enhancing the property's growing meeting and convention business.
And in the spring of 2017 we will open a new fine dining concept by Celebrity Chef Michael Symon.
Of course Borgata is just one piece of an ongoing strategic initiative to enhance non-gaming amenities of Boyd Gaming properties across the country.
This is a multi-year initiative aimed at ensuring our properties remain competitive and compelling to consumers of all generations.
This initiative began in 2014 and will be complete in 2017.
During that three-year period we expect to invest over $100 million including $34 million that we spent in 2015 and $45 million we expect to spend in 2016.
To-date we have redesigned and enhanced about 3 000 rooms across our wholly-owned portfolio including 1 700 rooms last year alone at The Orleans Suncoast and Blue Chip.
Next up is Delta Downs where we are now adding 167 hotel rooms and completely redesigning our existing 200 room hotel tower.
This expansion project should be complete by the fourth quarter of this year.
On the food and beverage side we introduced five new concepts in 2015; the California Noodle House The Filament Bar at the Fremont The Spotted Horse and Fast and Lucy's Pub at Evangeline Downs and Brigg's Oyster Company at Suncoast.
We've seen encouraging results from these concepts as they each drive incremental visitation.
There is more to come in 2016 with about 20 new food and beverage concepts coming to our properties across the United States.
We began earlier this month with the opening of Alder &amp; Birch at The Orleans the property's new marquee fine dining experience.
In just a few weeks we will premiere Ondori a new Asian dining concept.
Three more concepts are scheduled to follow at The Orleans by the end of the year as we continue enhancing our largest Las Vegas property.
But The Orleans will not be alone.
Last week Delta Downs celebrated the grand opening of Rosewater Grill &amp; Tavern a new fine dining experience.
And our design and construction team is at work on new concepts across the country at properties like Suncoast Gold Coast Sam's Town Las Vegas The California Kansas Star and Diamond Jo Dubuque.
These new concepts will help ensure that we provide a competitive and attractive dining product to customers nationwide.
And thanks to our strong free cash flow we're able to make these strategic investments in our business while continuing to pay down debt.
So in all 2015 was a year of significant progress for our company and we remain focused on continuing this performance into 2016.
As we look ahead we see no reason that the current consumer environment is going to change.
Nationwide our customers are healthier and more confident and we expect the revenue growth that began in 2015 will continue.
That's been the case so far in the first quarter as the positive trends we experienced in 2015 have continued throughout our business over the first six weeks of this year.
While we are obviously benefiting from an improving consumer we will also continue to actively drive revenue growth through enhancements to our operations including strengthening our technological capabilities in marketing and analytics and giving our property teams the real-time data they need to make smart and effective decisions.
And we remain diligently focused on maintaining efficiencies in our operations while identifying new opportunities to eliminate costs.
While it is not realistic to expect margins to continue to improve at the same pace we saw in 2015 we do believe there is potential for further progress on the cost side of the business.
So as we look ahead I remain confident about the direction of our business.
2015 was a great year for our company and we are well-positioned for continued growth and success in 2016.
Thank you for your time.
I'll now turn the call over to Josh for a review of our financials.
Josh? Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</strong> Thanks Keith.
I will cover a few items from 2015 and then discuss 2016.
During 2015 we continued our focus on debt reduction while at the same time investing in our business.
Total debt reduction for the year including Borgata was nearly $220 million.
Over the last three years we have reduced debt by over $900 million.
Our expectations for 2016 are to reduce debt by similar amounts as 2015.
Our quarter-end debt and cash balances were provided to you in our earnings release.
During the fourth quarter we utilized approximately $164 million of availability under our credit facility to retire the Peninsula Seller Note.
Also during the quarter Borgata made tax distributions to its partners of $14 million each.
We expect Borgata to continue distributions in 2016.
In terms of capital expenditures during the quarter we invested $44 million in our wholly-owned properties.
For the full year we invested $131 million.
Borgata's capital expenditures were $13 million during the quarter and $34 million for the entire year.
Capital expenditures for 2016 are expected to be about $110 million in maintenance for Boyd and Peninsula combined.
In addition as Keith mentioned we expect to invest $45 million to continue our non-gaming amenities initiative and approximately $37 million remains to complete the hotel and related expansion at Delta Downs.
Our company-wide non-gaming amenities initiative has been very successful attracting new customers while at the same time providing existing customers a new reason to visit.
Our expansion project at Delta Downs is on-track to be completed on budget and on time by the end of the fourth quarter of this year.
Separately at Borgata we expect to spend approximately $35 million in capital in 2016.
2016 guidance for other remaining items includes annual depreciation expense is expected to be about $205 million.
Borgata's depreciation which is not included in that number is expected to be about $60 million.
We expect total annual interest expense to approximate $210 million.
This interest expense assumes a modest increase in LIBOR rates and no refinancing of our current outstanding debt balances.
Of this amount we expect Boyd's interest expense to be about $140 million and Peninsula's to be around $70 million.
Borgata's interest expense should be about $45 million to $50 million which is not included in the numbers I just mentioned.
In terms of corporate expense which is already incorporated in the full year EBITDA guidance that we provided in our release we expect about $60 million to $65 million.
This number is similar to 2015 levels.
Other income statement items include deferred rent which should approximate 2015 levels at about $3 million for the year; pre-opening expense which is estimated to be about $10 million and share-based compensation is expected to be about $15 million.
Weighted average shares outstanding should approximate 116 million shares.
As noted in our release we expect full year 2016 adjusted EBITDA which included 50% of Borgata's EBITDA to be in the range of $635 million to $655 million.
As Keith mentioned we expect the continuation of the consumer trends we saw in 2015.
And based on what we have seen so far this year we have no reason to expect that environment is changing.
However given current volatility in the financial markets and the uncertainty that naturally creates we have set the low-end of our range to a level that is below what we would expect from the current operating environment.
Given what we know today we expect the business to perform around the midpoint of our guidance.
Consistent with this guidance we expect revenue growth for our wholly-owned businesses of about 1% to 3%.
We expect EBITDA flow-through on our revenue growth of approximately 55% to 60%.
In each of our Las Vegas Locals and Downtown segments we expect EBTIDA to grow about 5.5% for the full year.
In our Midwest and South and Peninsula segments we expect full year EBTIDA on a combined basis to grow about 2.5%.
And at Borgata we expect EBITDA to be $195 million to $200 million of which 50% of this amount is included in our guidance.
When considering this expected performance relative to the highly successful year the property completed in 2015 recall that higher than normal hold contributed an estimated $9 million in EBITDA in 2015.
In addition the property has been negatively impacted by winter weather in the first few weeks of January by about $15 million (20:09) in EBITDA.
Our expectations for Borgata include a level of property taxes similar to the amount paid in 2015.
In conclusion we had a very solid quarter that capped off a successful year.
The operating trends that existed in 2015 are continuing.
Our consumer is healthy.
Our non-gaming amenities strategy is paying off.
Our management team is focused on not only driving profitable revenues but also operating efficiently by continuing to focus on removing cost from our business.
And finally our balance sheet remains healthy.
With that Jamie that concludes our remarks and we are now ready to entertain any questions.
Ladies and gentlemen we'll now begin the question-and-answer session.
And our first question comes from Joe Greff from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good afternoon everybody.
And Josh thank you for your comments (21:29) my questions away.
Just thinking about your outlook for the Las Vegas Locals market this year how do you think about the growth for after four quarters of 2016? Do you see higher growth in the first half versus the second half just given how the comparison evolve over the year? Can you help us understand that a little bit in terms of what's baked into your guidance? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So Joe this is Keith.
I think that that's probably right.
We'd expect to see a little more growth in the first half of the year.
The summer time is notoriously slow here in Las Vegas especially in the Locals business.
And once again we did had a great fourth quarter as things build throughout the year.
So we expect kind of the momentum we saw in the fourth quarter to carry into the first quarter and second quarter.
So it's probably more heavily weighted in the first half of the year.
Okay.
And then with respect to your non-gaming enhancement-related capital expenditures baked into your guidance do you have any renovation disruption? If you could help us quantify that if there is any.
Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> Yeah Joe.
This is Josh.
We really haven't built in any expectation of disruption.
We have seen  given our experience so far in 2015 we've seen very little in the way of disruption.
We have had some kind of external impacts on our businesses whether it was not related to the construction like weather and things of that nature.
But I would say really related to the non-gaming amenities strategy the only property that I can think of that could be significantly impacted is our Downtown segment with the casino floor renovation at The California.
But as I run through the  think through what we're planning to do for 2016 I would expect kind of minimal disruption throughout the year.
Got it.
And then my final question.
I believe I heard that you said the winter weather impact of Borgata was $15 million of EBITDA one five? Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> No no.
I'm sorry.
My accent probably threw you off there.
We definitely want to clarify that.
It was about $5 million and there was about $9 million of hold in 2015...
Okay.
Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> ...and then $5 million in January related to the winter weather.
And then have you seen any of that lost business come back this month following (24:04)? Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> Yeah.
We have started to see it come back.
Okay.
That's all from me.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Our next question comes from Chris Jones from Union Gaming.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi.
Great.
Thank you.
Just first question is going back to the Borgata here just two things.
First any details you can give us about for the ongoing battle or issue you're having with the tax issues whether or not you guys have started withholding tax there or not paying the gaming tax with this city? And then secondly on the Borgata any comments or thoughts about what's going on in Northern New Jersey if whether or not the Borgata JV would be interested or looking to pursue something there if that was to pass? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> With respect to the property tax settlement we certainly stand ready and willing to engage in serious negotiations.
Unfortunately none have occurred yet.
We're certainly hopeful that some will occur in the near future.
But other than that all that we know is out there and is public.
We did exercise some help some what I call self-help about 10 days ago where we withheld our quarterly property tax payment as we're legally allowed to do as a way to I guess start the process of getting us repaid because no other progress have been made.
And once again we're just hopeful that there will be some serious negotiations sometime in the near future but other than that that's all we know.
It's all we have to report.
I think with respect to North Jersey it's an evolving situation.
You know they're talking about two licenses and $1 billion minimum investment.
What they haven't talked about is kind of what the tax rate would be and some of the other rules and regulations and so it's a little difficult to decide whether or not that will be a benefit or a detriment at the end of the day to New Jersey not knowing what's going to be built because I think some of that will be driven by the tax rate.
So we need some clarity on some more of the rules around what they're actually proposing for North Jersey before we can understand whether we think there's an opportunity to play there or not.
Excellent.
Thank you.
And just a quick a follow-up on Vegas; I think Keith did you mention that there was a low hold in Suncoast this quarter? And what was the impact there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We had abnormally kind of low slot hold.
It just happens from time-to-time in the business.
It's nothing that is systemic or ongoing.
It made the difference between the Suncoast posting an up quarter in EBITDA versus posting a down quarter in EBITDA.
And so that is the significance of the whole difference.
It's come back and like I said it was temporary and it does happen occasionally although not frequently in the slot area.
And did you think if you hadn't had that you would've seen materially better performance from some of the sort of non-gaming initiatives and such that you've made in there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well the non-gaming initiatives performed just fine it really was.
We had good volumes.
We had coin-in at the Suncoast as we recovered from some of the road construction that impacted us during the first nine months.
And we had plans to wrap the business back up and try and grow coin-in and that it all happened kind of on schedule and as we had planned.
It's just the luck of the draw if you will.
We just didn't run lucky in the quarter and that was the difference between once again posting up EBITDA versus posting down EBITDA.
So it would have been a great quarter if not for that.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Welcome.
Our next question comes from Steve Wieczynski from Stifel.
Please go ahead with your question.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good afternoon guys.
So Keith I know you called out you said in the Locals market in Vegas you know you threw some effective marketing programs out there that really seemed to work.
Can you go into a little bit more detail as to what you guys essentially did there? And also talk about the promotional environment right now in the Locals market? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah so in terms of kind of the detail of our ongoing marketing efforts probably so that we can continue the success that we've achieved to-date we're not going to talk about them in any specific detail.
But with respect to kind of the marketing the promotional environment overall I would say it's been fairly flat you know it's not overly aggressive.
Nobody's stepping out and doing anything too aggressive.
So I'd say that for the majority of 2015 if not all of 2015 it was a fairly rational promotional environment and we certainly hope that that continues into the future.
Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> Yeah I would add to that just that comment is not only true about Las Vegas Locals but really across the portfolio in the markets that we operate in.
The competitive kind of marketing environment has been very  what we call rational or more consistent with historical levels just generally.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And then second question I guess for you Josh.
In terms of your guidance frames you talked about kind of the midpoint of $645 million would be if the business kind of ran itself today.
And you talked about what would get you to the low-end of that range.
But to get to the high-end I guess the question is do you think that would be a function more of stronger revenue growth or better increases on the margin front? Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> I think it would be primarily revenue growth driven.
So our guidance generally expects revenue of kind of 1% to 3% so it would be near the end or exceeding that growth rate and revenue and then obviously margins improvements associated with that revenue growth as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> Sure.
Our next question comes from Carlo Santarelli from Deutsche Bank Securities.
Please go ahead with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey thanks guys.
Josh on the subject of Borgata obviously you mentioned the $14 million distribution for tax purposes.
As you think about that property now I believe coming out of the 4Q it's about 3.2 times net debt to EBTIDA.
How are you guys thinking about future maybe more broad distributions from that asset as we go forward? And how much does the North Jersey situation play on kind of your thinking around how to handle the balance sheet or the capital structure of that asset? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
It's a good question Carlo.
I think we're going to kind of continue to balance the success of that asset and its ability to deleverage with the prospect of Northern New Jersey quite honestly.
I think to the extent we get better visibility on Northern New Jersey that'll certainly weigh on our decisions.
But the asset in the meantime continues to generate significant amounts of free cash flow and will continue to deleverage.
And I think we're comfortable with the levels of leverage in terms of where it is currently and in the current environment.
And then you have both the prospects of Northern New Jersey to factor into the thought process going forward but also we expect to eventually get paid on the property tax amount too which will also help to continue to deleverage the business.
So I think we have a lot of moving pieces around that.
And we'll just kind of make those decisions under kind of the best understanding of what's going on at that particular time.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then if I could just ask a follow-up in terms of how you're thinking about maybe the proper leverage ratio at that asset? Is there a certain level where you'll believe that you're under-leveraged so to speak? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think that the capital structure is set up to allow the asset to continue to deleverage and also make distribution.
So currently as you mentioned it's around three times leverage a little bit more than that.
I think we're generally comfortable with that.
I think to the extent that Northern New Jersey started to come on the radar screen we may want to get a little bit more conservative with the leverage.
But I think that 3 times leverage is a pretty comfortable level given where the business is and how it's performing and just kind of the competitive environment that it's operating within currently.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Our next question comes from Steven Kent from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with your question.
And Mr.
Kent...
Hi.
Yeah can you hear me? We can hear you now.
Please go ahead with your question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Steve we can hear you.
Sorry about that.
Can you just talk about visitation trends versus average spend per visit? Just  it would seem to me that given where employment's going and also where gas prices are going that you should start to see a pickup in that.
So I just wanted to understand that.
And then just on a more modeling question stock comp came in a little bit higher than (33:34) stock comp expense came in a little bit higher than we thought.
Are we missing something about how you do fourth quarter recognition of stock comp because it seems to change a little bit in that fourth quarter and I'm just trying to understand it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Steve with respect to visitation and kind of spend per visit we're seeing kind of continued strength in both visitation and average spend across the country that's generally coming in our mid and upper tiers.
We're also seeing strength in the unrated play kind of growing across the country also.
And whether that's a function of lower gas prices or just a healthier consumer a fuller employment market probably a combination of all those things.
But we are seeing good growth in visitation and continued growth in average spend at the mid and upper tiers.
Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> And Steve in terms of the stock compensation expense question it really has to do with the mix of employees and the number of employees that are receiving the stock equity grants as well as their years of service and their age.
So there's quite a kind of complex set of circumstances that drives how much  what gets recorded and when.
And it has to do a little bit also with when options and equity compensation is granted.
So it's really all of those factors that comes into play.
I'm not  yeah nothing really has changed in the program or anything of that nature.
It's just the mechanics of how the program works.
Thanks.
Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> (35:17).
Okay.
Yeah thanks.
Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> Okay.
See you.
Our next question comes from Demetri Typadis from Barclays.
Please go ahead with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
You talked a little bit about kind of the fact that the levels of flow-through have been robust and we can't really expect that to continue going forward as high as it's been.
But can you talk a little bit about the cadence? Should we be thinking about you know a step-down in flow through starting in the first half of the year or there's still room to outperform in the first half? And then maybe it's the second half when the comps get more difficult that we should be considering a lower level of flow-through? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think that you should probably be looking at a step down in Q1 and in Q2.
We've been successful in improving our margins over the last six quarters or seven quarters.
And it's bound to slow down at some point.
And while we're intensely focused on continuing to find ways to take cost out of the business the levels that we achieved last year just we don't believe are repeatable.
So you should expect that step-down to occur in Q1 and be consistent throughout the year.
Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> Yeah it's just getting more and more difficult to achieve cost savings as quickly as we've been able to do historically.
We continue to believe that there are opportunities.
They're just going to be more difficult to achieve and take longer to obtain.
And so we're trying to be realistic with respect to our own expectations and we understand kind of generating the levels of flow-through that we saw certainly in the last four quarters or five quarters because everything we went our way.
We don't expect that to continue.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Helpful.
And in Illinois you talked about the impact of VLTs.
I mean is there really anything that can be done or should the expectation be that this is just going to weigh on all properties in the market? And on top of that are there any other markets that you're concerned that could open up; I know Pennsylvania has kind of discussed it.
I don't think any jurisdictions are at a very advanced stage but any competitive threats in any other jurisdictions that are on your radar? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think you understand the situation right.
I think in Illinois there the genie is out of the bottle and we really don't see any real slowdown in the approval process of those.
They continue to grow each and every month as the state approves more.
And the only other state where we're talking about it is Pennsylvania which I think had significant impact on operations in the state.
We don't have an operation there but we're not aware of other states that are actively engaged in that conversation.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
That's great.
That's it for me.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Demetri.
Our next question comes from David Katz from Telsey Group.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi.
Evening.
So I think as we look at the total picture here what we're seeing is continued fairly modest revenue growth and the strong flow-through.
But I've heard the same message a number of quarters in a row where you say please don't expect us to drive the kind of margin growth that you've been seeing and then you do it.
And so I mean this in a complementary way but how do you really feel like the levers that are available to you to pull throughout the year right? I mean the guidance is quite good and it's a little bit better than obviously most of us were expecting.
Has your scale of conservatism changed let's say over the last four quarters in terms of how you forecast I suppose is the bottom line question I'm trying to get at? Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> David it's Josh.
I think we really believe in the guidance that we are providing you and we are not trying to be conservative in the sense of what we are telling you.
I think what has happened in 2015 and we've said it before and perhaps you know there's just everything that kind of goes in our direction and those are the things that we really don't incorporate in our guidance that ultimately have accrued to our benefit.
So we have been more successful than we expected in taking cost out of the business at the same time that we had a little bit more robust revenue growth than we expected.
And those are the factors that really contributed to our outperformance.
I think as you start to anniversary those kinds of performances you end up with a smaller likelihood of kind of continuing to perform on the upside on the revenue side unless the consumer kind of starts to deviate to the upside and gets stronger.
And I think the same thing plays out on the expense side.
You know there's only so many times that you can really continue to drive expense savings in excess of what you expect.
And so we're trying to give you the best sense of what we see today.
Our comments and guidance are definitely in the middle of the road in terms of what we expect to achieve and we would say that there's probably if there was going to be upside performance it would come from outside revenue growth.
If there's going to be downside performance it's going to come from a change in the consumer more than likely and therefore a change in revenue on that side of the equation because we will not be able to turn the ship quickly enough to take costs out in the event of revenue decline from here.
So I think that's the best way to kind of put things in perspective for you.
Okay.
I meant not to accuse you of sandbagging in anyway.
Honestly I...
Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> We're not trying to sandbag.
Okay.
I think you made that clear...
Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> We're not trying to sandbag.
We are trying to give you a realistic view of how we see the business and give us a realistic expectation of performing within that guidance range.
Okay.
All right.
Well taken and congratulations on a good quarter.
Thanks very much.
Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> Yeah I hope we keep doing it.
Our next question comes from Shaun Kelly from Bank of America.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey good afternoon everyone.
Josh I know you covered most of the ground that I had but just one thing that came out in the fourth quarter throughout I think you know was the  some of the REIT laws were updated in some surprise legislation.
And I was curious I believe there is some grandfathering that can be done or has been done for some companies.
But does the new IRS ruling prevent or change in any way the kind of way you guys were thinking about pursuing the opportunity of a REIT conversion? Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> I don't think so.
I think that you know we're continuing to think through the issue and monitor developments in our space.
And I think we always try to remain prepared for kind of what's going on in that arena so.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Shaun this is Keith.
I think that look we've said before we're really not going to provide any other color around this until we have something to announce.
But look the restructure still remains an option for us.
We continue as Josh said to kind of learn from what's going on in the market.
And I'm sure we'll learn more from MGM's proposed transaction.
And we'll continue to evaluate kind of what the right structure is for the company going forward.
Okay.
That's it for me guys.
Thanks a lot.
Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> Thanks Shaun.
Our next question comes from Thomas Allen from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey.
Good afternoon.
So just related to the guidance as you think about the Louisiana properties you're still doing well in Treasure Chest.
But it does seem like the broader energy market sell-offs is starting to impact Shreveport Delta Downs Amelia Belle and Evangeline Downs.
So how are you thinking about their performance in 2016? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think with respect to kind of the energy and what's going on in oil and gas and everything else that we're really not seeing much of an impact at Treasure Chest or at Delta Downs.
It's really not impacting Shreveport where it is impacting  the Shreveport decline in revenues is really more directed self-directed as we're just trying to take some costs out of the business and get to as I think Josh used the term profitable revenue growth.
We are seeing some impact at Evangeline Downs and Amelia Belle mostly because the populations around those properties are mostly folks that work in kind of the production facilities.
And so we are seeing some impact there.
Not significant but some impact clearly.
And we'd expect that that probably will continue through 2016 at those two properties they'll continue to see some modest impact as a result of low oil prices.
I think at the same time once again it has a benefit to the broader consumer group out there that has more money in their pocket.
So there is an offset to that.
Definitely.
And then in terms of the Las Vegas Locals market so just trying to think through the guidance.
You guys guided to 5.5% EBITDA growth but for the past two quarters you've been running at about 4%  4.5% to 5% revenue growth.
So are you expecting a meaningful slowdown in revenue or are you expecting kind of cost inflation to start picking up in the market now that unemployment started to decline? I mean what's the expectation of the two the top line and then the expense drivers? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I think it's strictly a matter of just comps are getting more difficult in an improving environment and we want to see that consumer translate into better performance before we kind of get out ahead of ourselves on that.
That's it Tom.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Our next question comes from Chad Beynon of Macquarie.
Please go ahead with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Great guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
First just wanted to talk about your appetite for M&amp;A.
You've done a nice job paying down debt reducing leverage.
And Josh you gave the target of potentially paying down another $200 million in 2016 but what's your appetite for M&amp;A? And what do you think is out there at this time? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think we continue to be very interested in growing the company and acquiring assets that are in markets that make sense for us and that you know will move the needle for us and it's a matter of coming to an agreement on price in many cases.
So we continue to look around.
We continue to look at as many things as we ever have and one of these days we'll find something that is in the right market at the right price that we think should be part of our portfolio.
We tend to be fairly selective.
We're not anxious.
We're not going to buy something just to have a deal or to do a deal just to do a deal.
We will find the right asset in the right market at the right price and then we'll execute on it.
In the meantime we'll just focus on paying down debt.
We'll focus on our non-gaming amenities strategy and strengthening the existing portfolio until we find someplace else to invest.
But we are clearly interested in continuing to grow the company.
We just have to find the right opportunity.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks Keith.
My follow-up a property we haven't talked about IP.
Keith you mentioned that in the quarter EBITDA grew 20% and I know that at some point in December a new competitor kind of across the Bay opened up.
Could you just talk about maybe how those trends kind of occurred during the quarter or yeah within the quarter? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
So they opened in early December and so we've seen just the last three weeks or so of the fourth quarter with that competition and obviously the first six weeks of this new year.
And I would say that the impact is about what we were expecting.
It's a little less on the slot side a little more on the table games side.
They're driving a lot of visitation with some aggressive marketing programs and like I think all consumers that they're going to take a lot but that's kind of the nature of our business when a new property opens people go and take a look.
And so we're just going to have to wait and see how and where it settles in and kind of where they settle in from a marketing standpoint and how aggressive they end up being on a longer term basis.
So nothing we're overly concerned with.
And once again the impact about what we would have expected it to be.
So we'll continue to monitor it and watch it but nothing overly concerned about sitting here today.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you all.
Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> Thanks Chad.
Our next question comes from James Kayler from Bank of America.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys.
How you doing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good.
Good.
Just a sort of bigger picture question on the Locals market.
So I think the Locals market is still 40% plus off of its prior peak.
What needs to happen in the Locals market to start to narrow that gap? And what kind of timeframe do you think is reasonable to think about that gap declining? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'm not sure how much more you close that gap because you know what drove that gap is what drove the economy generally when you look back at 2005 through kind of 2007.
Large part of that here locally were construction jobs and the tremendous amount of construction that was going on in this town.
And while (50:17) construction jobs back we won't get back to 125 000 or 135 000 construction jobs in the town.
As well as just the freedom at which people the consumer generally spent money and so thinking we'll gravitate back towards that number certainly not in our thinking any time in the near future.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Just one question on the CapEx.
I think Josh you said $110 million of sort of maintenance CapEx.
Can you just remind us what that is? How that compares to last year's number? And I guess more specifically what's your plans for spending on slots this year versus in 2015? Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> Yeah so in reality it's very similar to the maintenance capital we spent last year.
And we in fact talked to everyone about last year we generally said $100 million to $110 million last year and that's essentially what we're saying this year.
In terms of slot capital our budgets are essentially flat.
We really are ensuring that our floors have the best product out on them to provide our customers the best experience and we don't see any need in order to meet that objective to spend any more than what we're doing currently.
So we feel comfortable about where our floors are and we feel comfortable with the budget we're applying to accomplish that objective.
Very good.
Just one last balance sheet item.
You mentioned refinancing the Pen Game Seller Note.
Can you just remind us what the terms of that were and how it'll affect your income statement and cash flow statement? If I recall there was  I know there was a PIK component I'm not sure if there was a cash component also of interest.
Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> There was not a cash component of interest.
We could have chosen to pay a portion of it in cash we chose not to.
It was a note that was put in place in 2012 the first year had zero percent interest the next year I think it was 6% and then 8% and then 10% thereafter.
It was just about to reach 10% when we decided to pay off the Seller Note.
It had a principal amount of about $164 million.
And so basically we used our revolver to fund that retirement.
The note was recorded at a discount according to the proper way to account for it.
And so when we retired it there was a charge related to retiring the note but that's related simply to how it was accounted for on the books.
I don't know if that answers all your questions around that James or not.
That was a full answer.
Thank you Josh.
Thank you guys.
Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> Good.
And our next question comes from Joel Simkins from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks guys.
I am actually all set now.
Appreciate it.
Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And gentlemen at this time I'm showing that we have no additional questions I'd like to turn the conference call back over to you for any closing remarks.
Executive Vice President &amp; Treasurer</strong> Thanks Jamie and thanks for each of you for joining the call today.
If you have any follow-up questions or questions that you would like answered please feel free to call the company and we'll be as responsive as we can to get you the answers you need.
So thank you for dialing in today.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We do thank you for attending.
You may now disconnect your telephone lines.