Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Inc.
First Quarter Fiscal 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Chris Gay Director Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our earnings release and website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
We're pleased to report our strong first quarter financial results which validates that our strategies are working as we realized exceptional results in retail revenue growth and segment profitability record performance at our Cabela's CLUB Visa program strong consolidated gross margin results and increases in market share all of which led to further increases in one of our vitally important metrics after-tax return on invested capital.
During the quarter we made investments in our business to include additional outfitters in our retail stores technology infrastructure in IT new store preopening investments in the United States and Canada and existing store remodels.
These investments continue a trend which began in the fall of last year.
We are very pleased these investments are driving improvements in customer satisfaction accelerating comparable store sales increases and growing market share.
In addition to our 8.9% comparable store sales increase in the quarter every store in our comp base showed sales increases in the quarter a first for our company.
Additionally we realized gains in 12 of 13 product categories during the quarter with the strongest growth coming from firearms women's and children's and hunting apparel.
We are particularly pleased with the results in women's and children apparel.
And I'd like to provide a little color on what we've done with this category.
As you may recall last year we integrated our customer personas into our merchandise assortment strategies and totally revamped our women's and children's category.
We refined the assortment focusing on our core customer base and eliminated periphery product that did not fit in our core assortment and the results have been very strong.
Another example of investments we've made is at our firearms counter.
With the recent remodel in our Owatonna store we developed a new innovative display for certain firearms which do not require as much outfitter interaction.
We brought these firearms out from behind the counter providing more of a self-service aspect allowing an outfitter to serve multiple customers at a time.
And it provides our outfitters behind the counter a greater ability to spend more time with customers on higher end or specialty firearms.
Again this has had a dramatic impact on sales.
We are very pleased that Retail segment profitability increased for the eighth consecutive quarter to 11.6%.
Again a first quarter record.
Our unique integrated business model with the Cabela's CLUB Visa program continues to attract loyal customers and provide Cabela's with a segment profit expansion.
Subsequent to the quarter we opened our first store of 2011 in Allen Texas to a crowd of several thousand customers.
This 100 000 square-foot next-generation store will significantly increase our market share in the important Dallas/Fort Worth market.
We're also looking forward to opening our second store of the year in Springfield Oregon next week.
This store our first in Oregon will anchor the West side of Gateway Mall and is also one of our next-generation store formats.
We are very excited to open a store in this great market.
Now let's look at our Cabela's CLUB Visa program which had an exceptional quarter as we saw acceleration in account growth lower funding cost and significant improvements in delinquencies and net charge-offs.
For the quarter average active accounts increased nearly 8%.
This is the largest increase we've seen in the past 6 quarters.
In addition to accelerating account growth we also realized significant improvements in net charge-offs which are at the lowest levels we've seen in 3 years.
These favorable performance metrics combined with improved funding cost boost our confidence that our Cabela's CLUB Visa program will continue to have a great year.
As we previously discussed return on invested capital is a critical measure of success.
We are extremely pleased that our strong first quarter results led to a 230 basis point increase in return on capital compared to the prior year quarter.
We continue to have opportunities to improve return on capital as we increase earnings and further strengthen our balance sheet as we monetize land held for sale and economic development bonds.
Moving to our Direct business for the quarter.
Adjusted for divestitures direct revenue declined 4.9% Approximately half of this decline came from ammunition and shooting returning to more normalized levels.
As you may recall ammunition sales were at extraordinary levels last year.
Despite direct revenue being down slightly for the quarter multichannel customers increased 2.5% which is an important metric for the long-term health of our business.
Consolidated gross margin increased 70 basis points in the quarter to 41.8% compared to 41.1% in the year-ago quarter another first quarter record.
Merchandise gross margin declined slightly as improvements in preseason planning in-season management and vendor collaboration were more than offset by increased transportation cost.
Merchandise mix did not have a significant impact on merchandise margin.
We are encouraged that the trends we experienced in the first quarter have continued into the second quarter particularly with regard to retail comps and the performance of the Cabela's CLUB Visa program and direct revenue has improved slightly.
As a result we expect earnings per share for the full year of 2011 to meet or exceed current external expectations.
Before turning the call over to Ralph I'd like to thank all of Cabela's employees for their hard work and dedication.
Their passion and commitment to our customers is legendary and has placed Cabela's at the forefront of the outdoor industry and I sincerely thank them for all they do to cherish and delight our customers each and every day.
Now I will turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail our balance sheet and performance at World's Foremost Bank.
Ralph? Thanks Tommy.
Following up on Tommy's remarks we feel very good about our first quarter results and have been particularly pleased with the accelerating performance of our Cabela's CLUB Visa program which had an outstanding quarter.
For the quarter financial services revenue as a percentage of average managed credit card loans increased 110 basis points to 11% compared to 9.9% in the year-ago quarter.
Increases in financial services revenue were primarily due to lower provision for loan losses reduced interest expense and higher interchange income.
For the quarter net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans improved 222 basis points to 2.74% compared to 4.96% in the first quarter last year.
Additionally we continue to see improvements in delinquencies.
Greater than 30-day delinquencies were just 0.95% as compared to 1.73% a year ago.
Greater than 60-day delinquencies were just 0.59% as compared to 1.07% a year ago and greater than 90-day delinquencies were 0.3% as compared to 0.56% a year ago.
For the quarter we reduced our allowance for loan losses $8 million.
This reduction was the result of delinquencies and net charge-offs following faster and to a greater extent than we anticipated.
Now let me highlight our funding plan for the rest of the year.
Recently we entered into a new variable funding conduit with Bank of America.
This is a three-year commitment allowing us to lock in liquidity at favorable spreads for an extended period of time.
Additionally we have 2 securitizations totaling $700 million maturing later this year.
This additional funding from maturing certificate -- maturing securitizations will be raised in the second and third quarter of 2011 by issuing new certificates of deposits and new term securitizations and we expect to benefit from lower funding cost as current markets spreads are more favorable than existing spreads in our maturing securitizations.
As many of you are aware our parent company revolving credit facility expires in June of 2012 and therefore will become current in the second quarter.
We've started preliminary discussion with our banking partners and intend to enter into a new revolving credit facility in the second half of this year.
From an inventory standpoint inventory increased $117 million year-over-year to $563 million.
This was a planned increase as we brought in some product in early ahead of price increases and we want to ensure we had enough inventory in the first half of 2011.
As you may recall in the first half of last year we suffered from lower fill rates and in-stock levels as a result of cutting inventory a little too tight.
We're very comfortable with current inventory levels and we believe we are well-positioned for the remainder of 2011.
For the quarter our tax rate did not have a material impact on EPS.
It was relatively unchanged and was 33.7% compared to 33.8% in the year-ago quarter.
Our diluted share count however increased 4% due to slightly higher dilution from the higher average stock price which is up over 50% from last year and additional equity grants.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
Again we're very pleased with our financial results for the first quarter and the significant improvements we continue to make in our areas of strategic focus.
With that operator let's open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Reed Anderson with D.A.
Davidson.
A couple of questions.
First off on the merchandise margins.
I think the transportation piece makes a lot of sense.
And I'm just wondering maybe just provide a little more color.
I mean is that just is it fuel surcharges? Is it rates going up on transportation? And then secondly knowing that today should we maybe dial back expectations for merchandise margin expansion this year thinking about kind of what that longer-term opportunity is? Reed we continue to feel very good about our longer-term goals that we've articulated of growing margins 200 to 300 basis points in merchandise margins.
So I think looking forward we still feel very comfortable that the initiatives we have in place will realize those goals.
We did see in the first quarter very sharp increases in transportation cost mostly fuel-related.
And some of that pressure has continued into April.
But we are trying to take steps to mitigate those cost implications in fuel.
But I think we still feel very good long term.
But absent that you feel like the initiatives the other initiatives you're driving for merchandise margin expansion those are working? Yes.
Secondly on the apparel comments you made Tommy on women's and children's.
I mean that's very good to hear and I think there's a lot of opportunity there.
And I'm just curious in my view would be that there's obviously a lot better opportunities you get into the fall and particularly when you think about a lot of your apparel mix your Cabela's branded mix and camo and things like that would you just expand on how what we're seeing now can play well into those categories in the fall? Reed it goes back to refocusing our business on and our assortments to meet the needs of our targeted customers.
And I think when you go to our stores in the fall you're going to see significantly improved presentations of camouflage clothing.
In a lot of stores it's going to look less like a sea of camo and much better signage much more focused to get the customer to those kinds of Cabela's branded camo utilizations that they need for specific hunting purposes.
So we're working really hard to improve presentation and also drive assortments away from the fringes and more to the focused needs of our customers.
And women's I mean it really paid off as the numbers validate.
Just to give some color to that Reed.
I've got the benefit of having the Q in front of me which will be filed at a later date.
But on a consolidated basis clothing and footwear went from 23.2% of total sales to 24.8%.
As you know that's been reversing a trend that's gone out the wrong direction for a while.
Actually by the way hunting equipment is up 2% in total.
The category that's been hurt a little is fishing and marine just with the fairly late spring we've had.
I was wondering the weather despite the good comp I got to believe weather at least around spring activity has not been a positive for you fair? No not at all.
You're up in Minnesota you still got snow in the ground up until a couple of weeks ago.
And it was great for extended ice fishing but it wasn't great for walleye and bass.
So we did see a late start both in fishing and in camping.
And just a couple of other quick ones.
You did talk briefly Ralph when you talked about inventory about price increases.
I'm just curious what are you seeing baked into your cost? And what are you doing on your pricing to offset that? Are you taking across the board just give us a sense of what you're doing there please? To no surprise we are seeing increases both in hard goods and in soft goods where we are unable to push back on those increases.
We're passing them along.
And order of magnitude kind of mid-to-upper single digits? Is that fair or is it worse than that? Yes I think that's a fair number across the board.
And then just one last question and that is I mean obviously Tommy it sounds like some of the initial experience with some of these store resets is working.
Any thoughts to expand some of those remodels or resets beyond I think the 3 you've done so far? Is it you're going to let that play out for now? No I think the success that we've seen at Owatonna in this I think what is an innovative approach to firearms presentation the results have been so encouraging that we will expand that as we move forward.
And Reed this is very similar to the efforts last year that we talked about in footwear where we've moved more of the self-service products out on gondolas and put the more technical products on the wall where our outfitters can really focus their selling energy.
Same thing in sunglasses that we talked about last year.
So this is just extending that theme over into hard goods and into firearms.
We'll take our next question from David Magee with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One when you talk about the multichannel customer base increasing is that inclusive of the stores as well? Yes.
Inc.</strong> And if you were to look at just the Direct business would you have a number for that customer base year-over-year? Yes acquisition was up in the Direct business a little bit.
Inc.</strong> So your customers lap probably higher year-to-year on the Direct side? Is that...
Yes.
Inc.</strong> The fuel cost being higher when you say that you feel pretty good about the estimates out there for the year are you assuming that they stay at the current levels throughout the year? Yes that would be a fair assumption.
For us to try to prognosticate where fuel prices are going 4 months from now there are a lot of smart people in the world that can't figure that out.
So we're just trying to deal with what we're seeing and anticipate a little bit and make adjustments accordingly.
Inc.</strong> So they come down and maybe that's a little upside? Could be.
Inc.</strong> And when you say you're taking steps to mitigate the impact of higher fuel costs could you give a little color about what you're trying to do and how much of that increase you're able to perhaps offset? Well more efficient movement of freight to and from our stores that's number one.
And number two where we can raise prices we're taking those steps as we speak.
Inc.</strong> Lastly on the loan-loss provision reduction of $8 million is that versus roughly a $10 million number last year as I recall? Last year was $11 million yes.
Inc.</strong> I guess from here I guess would you say the future reductions this year based on what you know right now would be smaller or how would you sort of characterize that? Well they're clearly -- I would well first of all just comment on charge-offs in total.
I mean we are at 2.74% which is sort of well within kind of the historical levels.
Now when we calculate the allowance for loan loss we use a 12-month average in doing that so we use delinquency and charge-off data over the last 12 months.
So assuming they don't increase which seems unlikely at least for the balance of the year that allowance will come down slightly as we get more and more favorable quarters into our calculation.
And if they continue to fall from here obviously that would be more upside.
We've been amazed at how quickly and dramatically those loan losses are falling relative to a year ago.
And next we'll hear from Jonathon Grassi with Longbow Research.
First of all on the merchandise margin can you guys quantify how much the transportation cost did impact that margin? This is Ralph Castner.
Freight was about -- there were really several factors in there.
Freight was about 20 basis points of that.
Another factor which was about 10 of it in total which we haven't talked a lot about but when we sold our Van Dyke's business that was a pretty high margin business and that drove that had some impact on margins which wasn't as important when they were up as big as they were in the fourth quarter but it was more meaningful to the down 30 that we experienced now.
On the inventory growth how much of that can be attributed to the new Allen Texas store? And was there any -- were you guys carrying any inventory at the end of the quarter for the new Oregon store? There's no question we had -- there's about $5 million of inventory in Allen and a little less than that in Eugene and we would have had most of that at the end of the quarter.
And let me comment a little more about inventory.
Last year in the first half of the year we just killed our customers with poor fill rates in the Direct business and out of stocks in retail.
And the increases that we have this year they are planned.
We feel very very good about the integrity of our inventories.
It's focused on core items and core programs.
And it's -- we're not going to chase inventory this year.
So we feel really good about our inventory position albeit higher year-over-year.
It was just way too low last year.
And then you guys said the charge-offs are at a three-year low.
I guess what's the lowest levels you guys have seen  charge-offs at historically? There was a period of time they were in the low 2s.
Only very occasionally over the last 8 years they've been below 2%.
They've been in the range of 2% to 3% really from when we got the business in the late 90s up until the financial crisis of 2008.
The times that it did dip below 2% that was done on a quarterly basis or an annual basis? Neither.
I think it might have even been on a monthly basis.
So it's just rarely been below 2%.
Finally you guys mentioned comps have maintained going into April.
Are you seeing -- is it trending above or below kind of what you saw in the first quarter? A little above.
The Direct business has improved more meaningfully in the second quarter relative to the first.
And that's for 2 reasons.
We're over the biggest part of the bubble in ammunition sales from last year.
And as Easter finally came and the weather warmed up a little bit we have seen some improvement in fishing and camping in direct.
Next we'll hear from Mark Smith with Feltl.
Inc.</strong> Just looking at the merchandise margins.
Tommy did adding new outfitters -- did that really impact the margin at all? Well none of the outfitter expense hits gross margin.
That all hits SG&amp;A.
Now the only thing that might have had some impact on although mix wasn't a big piece of the change in margin year-over-year it was single numbers of basis points of deterioration just because one place we put a lot of the additional outfitters was by the gun counter.
Inc.</strong> And then Ralph how about preopening expense kind of the effect there in this quarter? Preopening expense was meaningful.
It was about $2 million more because of the -- we would've had a significant amount of it at the Allen Texas store a lesser amount at Eugene and a small amount at for the Edmonton store.
So we did have an increase of preopening cost of about $2 million.
Inc.</strong> Lastly can you guys just comment on the competitive environment we're hearing about Wal-Mart's trying to get back into some of that gun and maybe a little more emphasis on fishing? Is that a big competitive threat as you look at the environment? I don't think so Mark.
I actually think it's a net positive for the whole industry that that large retailer is getting back in the business.
It just creates more critical mass.
We don't really overlap with them I think from a customer standpoint significantly.
So I mean I view it as a net positive and I hope they stay in.
Next we'll take a question from Jim Duffy with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions on the comp and then some follow-ups on the merchandise margins.
Do you have a view on traffic versus ticket impact to the same-store sales? Jim we measure transactions.
We don't measure actual footprints through the front door.
Transactions were flat.
Ticket was up 8% in retail.
But I think anecdotally...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I was just going to say is that a higher average unit retail or a bigger basket? I don't know.
We don't know.
We just don't have that data with us.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then the comp improvement is it possible to quantify how much of that is due to better in-stocks? I do think your were better inventoried this year in the quarter and perhaps captured more sales as a result of that? Jim I'm not sure I can quantify it sitting right here for you.
But I think we certainly believe that having the right inventory the right programs and the right number of outfitters in our store we're driving the business.
And there is -- we believe very strongly that we're taking share.
Yes in-stock percentage was up year-over-year about almost 200 basis points.
To equate how much of the comp that impacted is difficult.
But there is no question the initial inventory helped the comp.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then shifting gears to the merchandise margin.
Incremental expense and transportation cost I guess I'm a little unclear was that due to increases on the direct side and outbound shipping costs? Or is it more related to inbound? It was primarily related actually -- it was primarily related to higher transportation cost shipping stuff between the DCs and the stores.
We expensed that when incurred and those costs were up year-over-year.
Then there was an additional variance in the expense from getting merchandise from our vendors into our distribution center.
But the actual impact of the shipping expense we've done a pretty good job of managing what we charge on that and that was not a big draw in the quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Tommy you mentioned the mix had no impact on margins based on Reed's question.
It seems I may have missed at the outset of the call some of your commentary around categories but given some of the strength in apparel weaknesses in fishing and difficult year-to-year comparison in camo I'm surprised you didn't see a mix benefit.
Are the cost pressures in apparel and footwear working against the mix benefit you would typically see from that? No Jim.
It's the strength of firearms in our Retail business.
It was very strong.
Actually to add to that Jim Tommy's comments with respect to mix not making a big difference were on a consolidated basis and it's true.
It's interesting we have seen ammunition drop-off in our Direct business rather dramatically.
But we've seen it be very strong in Retail and we've seen the gun business be very strong in Retail.
So when you look at mix by channel it was a push -- you look at consolidated it was a push if you look at it by channel mix actually benefited the Direct business by about 40 basis points and hurt Retail between 10 and 20.
And it was because of that the ammunition impact in Direct which is falling off we got the lift but we are hurt in the Retail.
So there was an impact.
You just don't see it on a consolidated basis.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then Ralph a couple of more questions here.
I'll let someone else jump in.
The inventory -- where should we expect the inventory at year end based on Tommy's commentaries should we expect it to build on a year-to-year basis? Or is that more of a first half phenomenon? I would expect it to build but not as much as what we saw in the second quarter -- I'm sorry first quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then Ralph final question given the trends in delinquencies and charge-offs was the provision for loan loss level a surprise to you? Or is that something you had planned into your outlook? I was surprised for the first quarter? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Yes.
Well yes I would tell you I was surprised both at the levels of charge-offs and then sort of the resulting amount that we reduced the allowance for loan losses We were just surprised how fast that's come down.
Actually I'm sorry I'm going to add on to Jim's point.
I know he's dropped off.
But our results in the first quarter was significantly ahead of our plan.
Remember a year ago we had an $11 million reserve release to get to that $0.29 non-GAAP number.
Our internal budget was much less than that and our first quarter results were significantly ahead of our plan.
We'll now move to a question from Rick Nelson with Stephens.
I would like to ask about SG&amp;A the expense ratio looks like it's up about 150 basis points with the big comp in the quarter.
It's been a little surprise there wasn't more leverage.
Rick let me give some color and then Ralph can touch on some of the specifics.
We could not feel better about our Retail business.
Eight quarters of improvement in segment profitability.
Our stores have never looked better and performed better.
And we're optimizing almost everywhere across the chain and even by department in the stores.
So last fall we consciously decided to invest in a number of areas in the stores from commitments to remodels to significantly more outfitters to continue to drive the business and drive revenue.
Additionally we made some investments -- ongoing investments to optimize our CRMS system and new cabelas.com and continued some investments in merchandising.
So we think those investments are smart investments.
And they certainly in the aggregate increased SG&amp;A in the first quarter.
As we look to the balance of the year we would expect higher levels in the second quarter.
But then in Q3 and Q4 we believe we'll fall back to low single digit levels of increase in SG&amp;A.
But we feel very good about our retail models sufficiently enough to make pretty significant investments there.
And Ralph can give you some more detail.
Well as I'm sure the math most of you guys have done is that the reported SG&amp;A numbers were about flat relative to a year ago.
But of course the last year number had the $18 million accrual for the FDIC matter.
So adjusting for that they're up $18 million.
Roughly half of that investment was in Retail.
Of that as I've already mentioned $2 million of it was preopening cost.
$1.3 million was the additional expense we had related to our Grand Junction store year-over-year.
About $2.5 million of it was related to our additional investment we made in comp store labor and about $1.1 million of it was in Canada.
In addition to retail we made some investments in our MIS area of about $2.4 million.
Those were just related to continuing improvements we wanted to make in our CRMS system and also into our website that we rolled out last fall.
The distribution costs were up $1.2 million.
That was in some part related to the inventory.
At the bank in part due to their strong performance non-marketing expenses were up about $2 million and incentive comp overall was about -- was up almost $2 million given our strength in our outlook for the remainder of the year.
So they were fairly broad based with about half of the expenses -- about half of the increase being investments we made in retail.
I'd like to ask you two about the ROI of retail.
I think you mentioned it's up 230 basis points.
What -- where is the ROI today? And what is the threshold to really step on the accelerator in terms of store growth? Well the ROI number we gave you is on a consolidated basis of 230 basis points.
But the disclosed number that we had at the end of last year was 13.1%.
We expect that to grow this year.
Probably not the full 230 that we saw in the first quarter but we expect it to grow year-over-year.
As we've talked about we continue to be more and more confident on our Retail model and would expect to open more stores next year.
Or at least as many stores next year as we did this year.
Also I'd like to ask about the sustainability of the comps now that you've talked about where you have tougher compares this quarter fishing and marine sounds like it's been a little soft and we're transitioning to that season.
We got recent the spike in gas prices.
How do you feel about the comps as we look forward? I think we feel really good Rick.
I think the sense here is that we've got a pretty good head of steam going.
That whether we can sustain 9% comps or not I'm not sure that that would be our objective.
But I think we feel really good about comp velocity and especially the market shares that we're obviously gaining.
We feel really good about our Retail business.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now move to a question from Christian Buss with ThinkEquity.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the inventory pull forward? And you mentioned that you're going to be you're expensing the transportation expense there in the quarter that that's received by the stores.
Shouldn't that be a benefit for you in the second quarter and the third quarter? Or am I missing misunderstanding something there? I don't know that it's going to be a huge benefit.
I mean we would have done it a year ago.
And I don't know that at the store level we have a significant amount more inventory than what we had a year ago.
So I'm not sure I'd look forward as a huge benefit as we move forward.
Just so that I understand the provision for loan losses correctly that 1.17 percentage point level was pretty low.
Would you expect a similar level of provisions going forward? Or should we expect the step-up function there a little bit? I think there'll definitely be a step-up function as we go forward.
I mean as I've talked about in the past over the long-term they will trend towards the charge-off rate.
Now our charge-off rate with the 2.7% that does not include -- I'm sorry does include charge-offs we have for accrued interest and fee income which don't go through the provision.
Those we reverse against interest and fee income.
That's worth about 30 basis points.
So if charge-offs were for the rest of time at 2.7% you'd expect that provision to approach 2.4%.
Now to the extent that the provision charge-offs go down obviously that's helpful.
And at some point we won't have -- once we have more quarters of more consistent charge-off performance you won't have as big a reserve releases and those 2 numbers will approach each other.
Could you give us some marketing transfer payments for the quarter? Yes.
They're up big because you got to remember that a year ago we had the $18 million accrual for the FDIC matter about half of which we reversed later in the year.
But it was roughly $15 million at retail and $11 million in direct.
That does conclude our question-and-answer session for today.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Tommy Millner for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you all for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you again soon.
Thank you sir.
That does conclude today's teleconference.
We do thank you all for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Inc.
Second Quarter Fiscal 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Chris Gay Director Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website at www.cabelas.com including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our earnings release and website to find the reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Our record second quarter financial results validate that our strategies are working.
We realized strong results in retail revenue growth record second quarter profitability on a consolidated basis as well as in each of our direct and retail segments strong performance at our Cabela's CLUB Visa program a higher merchandise gross margin and increases in market share.
These components combined to help achieve increases in one of our vitally important metrics: after-tax return on invested capital.
Our Merchandising segments realized strong growth and profitability.
For the quarter comparable store sales increased 4.4% as a result of increases in average ticket.
Retail operating margins increased to a second quarter record of 16.2%.
This is the ninth consecutive quarter of increasing Retail segment profitability.
We realized gains in 10 of 13 product categories during the quarter with the strongest growth coming from firearms and power sports.
Additionally each of our clothing category and footwear realized strong growth.
Moving to our Direct business for the quarter.
Adjusted for divestitures Direct revenue declined 4.6%.
Even more so than in the first quarter the entire decline was a result of ammunition and shooting returning to more normalized levels.
As you may recall ammunition sales were at extraordinary levels last year.
Despite difficult revenue comparisons Direct segment operating margin improved to a second quarter record of 19.5%.
For the quarter multichannel customers increased 3.5% up from 2.5% in the first quarter which is an important metric for the long-term health of our business.
Merchandise gross margin increased 80 basis points in the quarter to 36.7% our highest Q2 performance in the last 5 years.
Improvements in Merchandise margin are a result of continued improvements in pre-season in planning in-season management and vendor collaboration.
We are continuing to see some increased cost from vendors and are successfully increasing prices to help mitigate these higher costs.
Our initiatives to improve merchandise margin resumed their positive trends.
And as a result we expect to realize higher merchandise margins in both the third and fourth quarter of this year.
Additionally we remain confident in our ability to increase Merchandise margins 200 to 300 basis points over 2009 levels by the end of 2012.
On a consolidated basis Merchandise mix did not have a significant impact on consolidated Merchandise gross margin.
However we did see a divergence between segments this quarter.
Due to strength in firearms and power sports in our Retail segment Merchandise margin was adversely impacted by mix.
Despite the unfavorable mix shift Merchandise margin did increase in our Retail segment.
In our Direct segment however where we don't sell firearms and boats and ammunition and shooting continued to return to more normal levels mix helped quite a bit and Merchandise margin was up more than 150 basis points in this segment.
This higher Merchandise margin helped lead to higher operating margins in our Direct segment.
Now let me update you on our new stores and future store opening plans.
We have been very pleased with the initial performance of all of our recently opened next-generation stores.
From a productivity standpoint each of our new stores is generating sales and profitability per square foot higher than the corporate average which provides us with even greater confidence to invest in more retail stores.
As you might have already seen this morning we announced plans to open 2 more next-generation stores in 2012: one in Rogers Arkansas and the other in Charleston West Virginia.
This brings the total new store count for 2012 to 5 new stores 4 in the United States and one in Canada.
These 5 stores will increase our retail square footage by nearly 10%.
We're also excited that our second store in Canada will open in Edmonton next week and we look forward to future expansion in this great market.
Finally as I'm sure you're all aware over the last several years we have shifted to our next-generation store format with an accompanying shift in real estate strategy.
And as I mentioned just a moment ago we've been very pleased with the early results of our next-generation stores.
This has changed our strategic approach to the Denver marketplace and we're looking at Denver in a fresh way.
And as a result despite its great location we no longer expect to open a store in Wheat Ridge Colorado.
Now let's look at our Cabela's CLUB Visa program which had an exceptional quarter as we continued to see strong growth in average active accounts lower funding cost and significant improvements in delinquencies and net charge-offs.
For the quarter average active accounts increased 7.4%.
We also realized significant improvements in net charge-offs which were at the lowest levels we have seen in more than 3 years.
These favorable performance metrics combined with improved funding costs boost our confidence that our Cabela's CLUB Visa program will continue to have a great year.
As we had previously discussed return on invested capital is a critical measure of success.
We are extremely pleased that our strong second quarter results led to 180 basis-point increase in return on capital compared to the prior-year quarter.
We expect to realize further increases in return on capital as we increase earnings and further strengthen our balance sheet.
We're encouraged that the results we experienced in the second quarter have continued into the third quarter.
That is Retail comps are slightly positive Merchandise margin continues to be up the Direct business has improved slightly and the performance of the Cabela's CLUB Visa program remains strong.
As a result we expect earnings per share for the full year of 2011 to meet or exceed current external expectations.
In closing I want to personally thank Cabela's outfitters for their contribution and support that they have shown daily in helping Cabela's flourish.
We appreciate all your hard work and effort in cherishing and delighting our customers each and every day.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail our balance sheet and performance at World's Foremost Bank.
Ralph? Thanks Tommy.
Following up on Tommy's remarks we feel very good about our second quarter results and are particularly pleased with our increases in Merchandise margin which helped drive increases in Retail and Direct segment profitability.
For the quarter Financial Services revenue as a percentage of average credit card loans increased 120 basis points to 10.6% as compared to 9.4% in the year-ago quarter.
Increases in Financial Services revenue were primarily due to lower provision for loan losses higher interchange income and reduced interest expense.
For the quarter net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans improved 244 basis points to 2.34% compared to 4.78% in the second quarter last year.
Additionally we continued to see improvements in delinquencies.
Greater than 30-day delinquencies were just 0.92% as compared to 1.45% a year ago; greater than 60-day delinquencies were 0.57% as compared to 0.91% a year ago; and greater than 90-day delinquencies were 0.28% as compared to 0.47% a year ago.
For the quarter we reduced our allowance for loan losses by $5 million.
This reduction was a result of continued improvements in delinquencies delinquency roll rates and net charge-offs.
Now let me highlight our funding plan for the rest of the year.
Recently we completed a $300 million term securitization.
This is a 5-year deal allowing us to lock in liquidity at favorable spreads and interest rates for an extended period of time.
We have 2 securitizations totaling $700 million and $102 million in certificates to deposits maturing later this year.
Funding for the maturing securitizations and certificate of deposit will come from nearly $565 million of cash and investments held at the end of June as well as additional securitizations we expect to complete later this year.
And we expect to benefit from lower funding costs as current market spreads are more favorable in the existing spreads on our maturing securitizations.
As we've mentioned last quarter our parent company revolving credit facility expires in June of 2012 and as you will notice is now classified as a current liability.
We're in preliminary discussions with our banking partners and intend to enter into a new revolving credit facility late in Q3 or early Q4.
For the quarter operating expenses as a percent of revenues increased 140 basis points.
Much of the increase was a result of increased preopening costs the write-off of certain receivables and additional IT costs related to our CRMS project.
We do not expect these expenses to reoccur in the second half of this year.
And as a result we expect operating expenses to grow at approximately the same rate as sales for the remainder of the year.
From the inventory standpoint inventory increased $87 million year-over-year to $600 million.
This was a planned increase as we brought in some product in early ahead of price increases and we want to ensure we have enough inventory for the second half of 2011.
The higher inventory levels are mostly related to our clothing and footwear categories and are focused on core product.
We're very comfortable with current inventory levels and we believe we're well-positioned for the remainder of 2011.
For the quarter the effective tax rate was 34.6%.
This is higher than the 32.7% effective tax rate we realized last year due to having less income allocable to foreign sources.
The higher tax rate impacted earnings-per-share by $0.01.
For the remainder of the year we expect our tax rate to be approximately 34%.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
Again we're very pleased with our record financial results for the second quarter and the significant improvements we continue to make in our areas of strategic focus.
With that operator let's open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to Reed Anderson with D.A.
Davidson.
A couple of questions.
First off on just kind of looking forward into fall Tommy.
I mean when we saw you in Allen Texas one of the new programs is the camo program you highlighted with some new products and better presentation et cetera.
Just give us a sense of where that's at in terms of rollouts expectations of change just the sense of your -- where that's at today.
Reed we have just concluded the initial rollout of the new camo presentation store package in Dundee Michigan just a couple of weeks ago.
And if the results from one store are indicative we did the right thing.
Just really strong positive reaction from our customers that has translated into a really nice rollover.
And we plan to roll it out as we do our fall rolls throughout the chain but initial reaction has just been terrific.
And you would expect to have that in pretty much most of the stores in time for hunting season yes? Yes.
Okay that's very good.
And then another question on margins.
You did say in your prepared remarks that you expect them to be up obviously in the second half as well.
I mean 80 basis points is a very big is a very good increase.
I'm just curious just order of magnitude is that type of level sustainable in the second half too? Or I would think it'd be a little bit -- maybe not quite as robust in the second half.
Reed I think we're pretty optimistic about our ability which we demonstrated in the second quarter to have a good balance between low-single digit comps and margin expansion in the range that we experienced in the second quarter.
And that trend has continued into the second quarter.
So yes I think that's in the ballpark.
We really like what's happening in margin expansion.
And I would comment that we had some headwinds in the quarter specifically in Retail where gun sales were very very strong early in the quarter as were boat sales.
So we overcame those headwinds and even posted up margins in the Retail business which just goes back to the underlying strategies that we have to grow margins over time.
So we feel pretty good about where we're positioned.
Reed to add to that our margin expansion accelerated fairly significantly during the second quarter.
And the second quarter was actually if you go – we’ve have got a chart here in front of us where you look at the Merchandise gross margin over the last 4 years the second quarter had the toughest comp of any quarter of the year.
So we were pretty pleased with getting that.
And yes I think we should expect something of those levels for the back half of the year.
That's great.
That's very helpful.
Ralph a couple of questions on the Financial Services piece.
Just curious do you know what is the average rate of interchange this year versus a year ago? I know it's a function of mix of the types of cards et cetera but I'm just curious what the differential is.
I don't believe it's changed materially since a year ago on the credit side of the business.
There's a lot of things going on with mix which are interesting which strangely enough have to do with fuel prices that can cause some weird behavior there.
Because generally your interchange rate at a gas station is lower so that can cause some interesting interchange mix.
But the rate schedule itself I don't think has changed meaningfully.
Okay.
And then lastly again kind of to the credit card piece is -- or the Financial Services is you're seeing store growth accelerate now and obviously that's very good on many fronts.
But also I mean it still makes sense that in the tail of that you usually get a nice lift in growth in cards et cetera like you historically have.
Any reason to think that'd be different this time around? No.
As a matter of fact it's something we're really looking forward to and of course I don't think you're really going to start seeing it until 2012 2013.
Right.
It's in the wake of that.
Yes as you know we don't have a Canadian card so we basically only added 2 stores this year.
But as you start thinking about 4 next year and at least that many the year after that as you know that's a huge tailwind in that business.
And card contribution in the next-generation stores we've opened has been really good.
And we'll go next to Rick Nelson with Stephens.
I'd like to follow up on the credit side as well.
You've got $700 million around securitization that looks like they're going to mature in September or October.
You just did a $300 million financing.
How do you anticipate replacing that $400 million? Are you thinking fixed or floating? And I know that with the most recent securitization about 1/2 was fixed at a higher rate and 1/2 was floating.
Well obviously there's -- as we've talked a lot Rick there's big opportunity as we do these securitizations to lower interest costs as spreads tighten.
One of the things we'll do probably more so than we otherwise would've done is lock in low rates because of the absolute level of interest rates.
So I think looking forward you should probably expect this to skew more towards fixed rate than you have might otherwise thought.
I mean it's probably not all that scientific with respect to interest rate risk management but you're not going to go broke borrowing money 5 years at 2%.
Also the provision Ralph came in below our forecast about 1/2 of where it was last year.
If the charge-offs stabilize here how should we think about the provision over the...
Well I think the provision on an ongoing basis is going to be higher than what it was in the second quarter.
I mean as I've said several times over time it ought to be about the level of charge-offs less 30 basis points.
So our charge-offs I believe are about 2.3% or 2.4% in the quarter.
So that would tell you you ought to have a provision of about 2% and I know it was 1-something in the quarter.
So that's lower than it should be.
It'll approach that -- it will most likely go up over time.
Because well unless charge-offs drop but I would tell you that charge-offs as long as we've been running this business are between 2% and 3%.
So to think that charge-offs are going to drop much lower from these levels would seem like an anomaly in the event they would so… Also noticed customer rewards were up 17% 18% both Retail and Direct sales.
You combine the 2 up about 5%.
Does it say anything about the rewards customer cashing in the rewards but not making the add-on purchases? No.
I think what it says more about is -- because we expense those rewards when earned I think it just says more about the state of the overall economy and people are more comfortable using their cards now than they were a year or 2 ago.
And there's just more rewards out there for our customers to redeem.
If anything it's probably a good-forward looking indicator.
All right.
And then question for Tommy on the store growth stepping up for 2012 from 3 stores to 5 stores.
Is that it for 2012? Or is there potential for more not certain on the lead times? Rick I think that's about it for '12 just the real estate and construction lead times.
We're getting pretty deep into 2011 to do much else in '12.
So I wouldn't say we’ve totally put '12 to bed but it's pretty darn close.
We're now really looking into 2013.
I would add one comment on store growth in '12 and '13.
The success of our store in Springfield Oregon it's the smallest of the next-generation stores that we've opened.
It's around 60 000 feet.
The results there are really challenging our thinking to the point where we'd probably want to test another one of those size stores.
And that's a good thing because the productivity on early returns on capital they're pretty damn good.
So that's framing some of our thinking also.
Not a change in strategy but the success there we've got to validate whether that's replicatable to other places.
The other thing that gives us some confidence as we look to lay loop [ph] this will be 2 stores in the Seattle market one South and now one North.
What's encouraged us in the Dallas-Fort Worth market we assumed cannibalization of Fort Worth when we opened the Allen Texas store.
That has absolutely not happened.
So it's causing us to think into '13 about perhaps more than one store in a given metropolitan market more frequently.
Square footage up 10% in 2012.
How are you thinking about the long-term growth rate particularly at some of these newer stores? Well I think as we've said all along Rick this is Ralph is as we get more and more confident about the productivity and the returns on capital of our retail stores we'll start to accelerate growth.
10% feels like a good number for '12.
To the extent we have as much or more confidence a year from now as we have today maybe you can see some upward pressure on that number.
But as we start thinking about -- I'm sorry the 10% is in '11.
So if you start thinking about '12 I would say something in the 5% to 10% range of square footage growth’s probably a good place to start and it may go up from there.
And we'll go next to Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
Inc.</strong> First can you walk through a little bit on sequential comp trend at all during the quarter and maybe any impact that fishing may have had? Sure I'll be glad to Mark.
As we noted in our last call the strong trends in comp from the first quarter continued into April primarily driven to a large measure we had broad-based comp growth but firearm sales were very very strong in April and in retrospect we were probably more promotional in guns than we actually needed to be to the detriment of margin.
Also there was a logjam in boat deliveries that occurred in the first quarter because all the lakes were frozen and guys didn't want to pick up their new boats and that kind of broke loose in April.
And then after looking at April we changed our promotional cadence in May and June to be a little less promotional to get this better balance of positive low-single digit comps with good margin expansion.
To your question about fishing fishing definitely came late because in the northern markets the lakes were frozen all the way into April.
Flyfishing while not a needle-mover for the company you can imagine with the amount of snow in the Rockies it really impaired flyfishing.
Those did come on later in the quarter but they got a very late start.
Inc.</strong> Then looking at the 2 stores that you announced today should we read anything into you guys going maybe more so into the Southeast and more vascro [ph] in other competitors on the fishing side.
Should we read anything into that and kind of your I guess confidence in going into those markets? No.
You shouldn't read anything to that at all.
We look at market opportunity and where we think we can have high return on capital stores.
That's it.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then lastly just any update on remodels and what you saw -- that you talked about last quarter from Owatonna.
Have there been any other changes in any other stores and then how those changes continued to work out? We are in the process of doing gun remodels at a number of other stores.
They’re not complete yet.
Results at Owatonna continued to be good.
We are testing a number of other things.
And again this is more to convey a sense that we try to continuously improve here.
We had DVDs magazines and books scattered all over our stores.
And we recently concluded an 11-store test where we put them all in one place call it a library for lack of a better term and by aggregating those things in one place we saw double-digit growth in those categories.
So the test was so successful we're going to roll it out in the rest of the chain and that just is in line with the changes we made in footwear last year to pull self-service out the changes in guns focus on end caps movement of sunglass fixtures staff to action alleys.
So we continue to test and refine in Retail to drive more sales productivity through the stores.
And we'll go next to David Magee with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One is first on the inflation front.
It just sort of seems to me that you all are maybe a little less concerned than you were a few months ago about that risk factor.
Am I reading that correctly? And I'm just sort of curious where you're seeing inflation and just any more color about that would be interesting to me.
We have definitely seen a lessening of the velocity of request for price increases.
We are still getting some but they are not at the rate that they were occurring months ago or even last fall.
So that's a good thing.
There has also been some moderation as you know in a number of commodity prices that we play in.
Further the stabilization of fuel cost that negatively impacted us last quarter has helped plus we reacted a lot better with much better management of freight flow to our stores into our DCs to help mitigate these higher costs.
So the combination of a change a positive change in velocity and some better work on our part makes us somewhat less concerned not unconcerned but less concerned.
Inc.</strong> And then my second question has to do with the Direct business.
It sounds like it's stabilized when you x-out the impact of ammunition year-over-year.
I'm curious at the interplay right now between the catalog versus the e-commerce.
What’s sort of happening with those 2 components right now? Well let me be really clear.
It's nice that it's stabilized but we're not satisfied at all.
We have not grown the Direct business over the last 2 years the way we wanted to.
And believe me it has our full attention inside the company.
And the fundamental issue you just hit on.
We have got to grow the Internet and social channels at a far faster rate than we're growing them today to offset the significant decline we've seen over the last 2 years that continues in customers calling our call center.
And look we're really pleased with the profitability of the Direct business.
Margins were up 150 basis points in the quarter but we have to get that business growing.
Inc.</strong> So at this point what is the way to do that do you think? If I had the answer for that you would've seen the results already.
We're working on a number of issues on a broad array of fronts from social to Twitter to text campaigns to QR codes.
And I think our teams are on the right path.
I just want to convey that there's nothing that's getting more of our focus in the company than getting the Internet channel growing at a much faster rate than it is today.
That's really the key.
Inc.</strong> You don't think there's any market share issues with that channel do you? I don't.
And from Longbow Research we'll go next to Jonathon Grassi.
I guess first can you just start us off by what were the recoveries in the WFB business? I'm sorry I'm not sure I have those.
We'll give you -- Chris has got them.
Go on to your next question we'll circle back.
The other one is an update one too was the marketing fee paid back to the merchandising operations what was the change in that? It was up about almost $11 million $7 million of it was in Retail $4 million of it was in Direct.
Okay.
And then you guys mentioned on the Merchandise margin that it was for the Retail business it was pulled down by the gun and ammo business but offset by less promotional cadence.
Was there any benefit from stronger soft good sales becoming a greater percentage of sales? I know we saw that last quarter.
Do we see that again this quarter? Well soft good sales were better but on a consolidated basis mix had almost no impact on gross margin.
Now when you look by channel it did -- mix was helping.
It was significant by channel.
It was helpful in Direct and not helpful in Retail.
But mix really didn't have -- was not really a factor.
There were other categories.
But here clothing and footwear in the quarter on a consolidated basis went from 21.7% of sales -- oh I'm sorry that's for 6 months.
It went from -- in the 3-month period it went from 20.1% of sales to 21% of sales.
Now there were some other categories that -- camping for example was down a little bit which is a higher-margin category but it did not -- clothing and footwear has been strong but there were other things that offset it so the mix wasn't a plus.
Okay.
And then I guess going back to the Direct business.
I know last quarter you guys had the -- I believe it was the second quarter you had the issue with the Cabela's branded inventory levels that led to a significant decline.
I mean kind of looking at the way it is now even when you back out the ammo was that business flat in the quarter then? Or did we see any improvement in that? Yes it was about flat.
It was about flat.
Is there still challenges on some of the inventory levels or just wasn't selling through at quite the rate that you guys had hoped it would? Well no.
I think our inventory positions are pretty good and fill rates were up significantly.
It just goes back to the challenge that I mentioned.
We've got to grow the Internet channel at a much faster rate to offset the decline in people calling our call centers to order merchandise which is a trend for every direct merchant in the world now.
You asked earlier about recoveries.
Gross charge-offs were $18.3 million and recoveries were $4.4 million.
Okay.
And then just finally can you remind us like among your time deposits and securitizations and conduits and other debt for WFB what percentage of those are fixed versus floating? Do you have a rough estimate? Yes.
We try to keep -- let's see we try to keep them about 40% fixed and 60% variable but I'll tell you where -- to my comments earlier that may be as much as flipped with the 60% being fixed as we're trying to get more and more fixed rate over time.
When you get the Q there's a detailed break-out that you can calculate including rate which is interesting to those other comments.
You could see what the rates is of the securitizations that are coming due now and how we'll be able to replace those at a much lower rate.
Right.
It looks like the newest one does come in at lower rate than the one it's I guess essentially replacing.
So that should be a positive going forward correct? Yes.
The old rate was like 5.25 and the new one's like 2.25.
[Operator Instructions]  And we'll go next to Aaron Goldstein with JPMorgan.
So just to go into the comp a little more.
Do you think the slowdown from 1Q and then maybe into 3Q is more compare-driven? Or is there any evidence that maybe the consumers have started to pull back now that the recovery looks to have stalled a little bit on the payroll side? No.
We don't get the sense from a consumer standpoint that there is a significant slowdown.
Okay.
And then as you look into August and September are those compares more difficult than July? No about the same.
As you think about the comp though and some of this is us -- as we continue to refine our marketing strategies and how we execute Retail to find the right mix between comp growth and margin expansion.
In the first quarter we put a lot more labor on the floor which helped to drive a significant increase in comp.
And what we've learned is and maybe we cannot be quite so promotional going forward to continue to maximize the profitability of Retail.
So I would tell you the volatility of the comp's driven a lot more by things we're doing than the macro level.
Absolutely.
Okay.
And then just maybe bigger picture.
As you're opening more and more stores I know this has been asked before but do you think there's any maybe cannibalization on the Direct side that you're seeing just maybe where you're getting orders from that as you open more stores that the Direct side continued to decline? Yes.
That certainly is a bit of a headwind but we don't accept that as a reason for not continuing to grow our Direct business.
Okay.
And then maybe just a housekeeping question.
On the charge-off provision reductions what were those in 3Q and 4Q last year? Well I'm not sure we had any release of reserves in the back half of last year.
If we did it was very small.
Most of it was in the front half which is one of the reasons why when we gave guidance by quarter we expected to have more -- we expected most of the growth in earnings to come at the back half of the year which is what we've seen.
And our final question comes from Jim Duffy with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> So it seems like from your commentary that you guys can somewhat turn the dial between comps and merchandise margin improvement.
Where are you guys trying to strike the balance on that going forward? And then how are you managing SG&amp;A accordingly as you try to leverage on the retail side of the operations? Well Jim I think we've said for a long time that we felt with a 2% to 3% comp range that we could successfully leverage expenses.
As we look at the balance of the year I think to my earlier comments in April we were just very promotional in guns.
And in retrospect it decremented margin and we probably would've sold a significant amount of guns without the margin decrement and been more profitable.
So as we got into the latter part of the quarter we were a little less promotional.
And I think the balance we're trying to strike is to get good margin growth.
And if we can strike that balance in low single-digit comps we think that's going to be pretty good for us going forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then in the first quarter and some of the commentary coming out of the Analyst Day it seems like there was going to be some incremental SG&amp;A spend in the stores.
If you're striving more for that low single-digit comp is some of that SG&amp;A that may have been mentioned unnecessary? No.
I don't know that it was unnecessary but we'll largely be comping that as we get into the third quarter.
So we shouldn't expect to see that same level of growth.
Yes.
We would expect SG&amp;A to grow at the rate of revenue increase in the back half for the year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> All right.
And then Tommy I think I ask you this every quarter but looking forward with respect to the Merchandise margins it seems like you have an optimistic view.
What are the near-term areas where you see the greatest opportunity for further improvement? Jim I think it's just continuing the basic blocking and tackling things that we've been doing.
The collaboration with our vendors is maturing really nicely.
We've got just lots of success stories of better flow higher margins and better support on promotions and innovation huge increase in vendor collaboration on future innovation which is going to drive our company.
Our teams are getting much better at in-season management and pre-season planning which takes a lot of pressure off of dumping merchandise at the end of the season.
And then in our Retail segment as witnessed by the anecdote about driving higher sales in just the little category of books and DVDs and magazines higher sales and margins we just continue to look at our retail stores not as static but as a dynamic vehicle to grow margins through better merchandising.
So we are optimistic.
I think we feel really good about our prospects.
And there are no...
We thank you for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you again soon.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Cabela's Incorporated Third Quarter Fiscal 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Chris Gay Director Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our earnings release and website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Our record third quarter financial results validate that our strategies are working.
We realized strong growth in merchandise margin Retail and Direct segment operating margin strong performance at our Cabela's CLUB Visa program and increases in market share.
These components combined to help achieve increases in one of our vitally important metrics after-tax return on invested capital.
Merchandise gross margin increased 140 basis points in the quarter to 35.9% our highest third quarter performance in the last 5 years.
During the quarter we deliberately reduced promotional discounts through the elimination of an unprofitable retail promotion.
The lower promotional discounts in our Retail segment resulted in significant acceleration in merchandise margin improvements.
Our initiatives to improve merchandise margins are on track and as a result we remain confident in our ability to increase merchandise margins 200 to 300 basis points over 2009 levels by the end of 2012.
Over the past several years we have spent significant time and resources improving all aspects of our Retail operation.
This includes: Significantly reducing and improving inventory levels; restructuring our merchandising organization; developing our next-generation store format; instituting new technologies in our retail stores; improving vendor collaboration; and instituting rigorous discipline around preseason planning and in-season management.
With a solid foundation in place for improving both Retail operations and merchandise performance we have begun to focus on improving our discipline around promotions and sales discounts as we continue to strive to become a best-in-class retailer.
This quarter we made the decision to eliminate an unprofitable retail promotion at the expense of comparable store sales.
It is always difficult to consciously sacrifice revenue in a quarter.
However it was clearly the correct long-term decision for the company.
Using each promotional dollar more effectively is crucial over the long-term to maximize our growth and retail profitability.
At the merchandise level we saw a strength in firearms power sports footwear fishing and men's apparel while archery and tree stands were soft.
In spite of a lift of margin as a result of fewer discounts merchandise mix was a slight headwind in the quarter due to strength in firearms.
Now let's look at our Direct business which showed improved results in the quarter.
Direct revenues were unaffected by the retail promotion decisions and improved from the prior several quarters.
For the quarter adjusted for divestitures Direct revenue declined just 1.7% our best performance in 4 quarters.
Even more encouraging is that despite the modest decline in revenue Direct segment operating margin improved 320 basis points to a third quarter record 17.6%.
For the quarter multichannel customers increased 1.9%.
In our Retail segment for the quarter average ticket increased nearly 3% offset by slight declines in transactions.
Retail operating margins increased to a third quarter record 16.8%.
This is the 10th consecutive quarter of increasing Retail segment profitability.
We also continue to be pleased with the performance of all of our recently opened next-generation stores.
During the quarter we opened a new store in Edmonton Alberta Canada and the results are exceeding our expectations.
Our next-generation stores opened since 2009 are outperforming our legacy stores on a sales per square foot and profit per square foot basis by 30% to 40% and have meaningfully higher return on capital.
As a result we expect to accelerate Retail store expansion in the United States and Canada in 2013 beyond the 2012 level of 5 stores.
Now let's look at our Cabela's CLUB Visa program which had another exceptional quarter as we continue to see strong growth in average active accounts lower funding costs and significant improvements in delinquencies and net charge-offs.
For the quarter average active accounts increased 7.9%.
We also realized significant improvements in net charge-offs which were at the lowest levels we've seen in more than 3 years.
These favorable performance metrics combined with improved funding costs boost our confidence that our Cabela's CLUB Visa program will continue to perform very well.
The performance of our Cabela's CLUB Visa program should come as no surprise as we continue to have one of the highest quality portfolios in the credit card industry.
This together with the intense loyalty to our brand has led the lower charge-off volatility than anyone else in the industry during any recent business cycle.
As we have previously discussed return on capital is a critical measure of success.
We are extremely pleased that our strong third quarter results led to a 210-basis-point increase in return on capital compared to the prior year quarter.
We expect to realize further increases in return on capital as we increase earnings and further strengthen our balance sheet.
Additionally we have continued to see strong performance into the fourth quarter.
Retail comps are flat to date.
Direct revenue growth continues to improve as currently positive.
Merchandise margin continues to be up and the performance of the Cabela's CLUB Visa program remains strong.
As a result we expect earnings per share for the full year of 2011 to exceed current external expectations by the amount of the outperformance in the third quarter compared to external expectations.
In closing I want to personally thank Cabela's Outfitters for their contribution and the support that they have shown to ensure Cabela's remains at the forefront of the outdoor industry.
I appreciate all your hard work and effort in cherishing and delighting our customers each and every day.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail our balance sheet and performance at World's Foremost Bank.
Ralph? Thanks Tommy.
Following up on Tony's remarks we feel very good at about our third quarter results and are particularly pleased with our increases in merchandise margin which helped drive increases in Retail and Direct segment profitability.
For the quarter Financial Services revenue as a percentage of average credit card loans increased 170 basis points to 10.3% compared to 8.6% in the year ago quarter.
Increases in Financial Services revenue were primarily due to lower provision for loan losses higher interchange income and reduced interest expense.
For the quarter net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans improved 162 basis points to 2.23% compared to 3.85% in the third quarter last year.
Additionally we continue to see improvements in delinquencies.
Greater than 30-day delinquencies were just 0.94% as compared to 1.33% a year ago.
Greater than 60-day delinquencies were 0.55% as compared to 0.80% a year ago.
And greater than 90-day delinquencies were 0.27% as compared to 0.42% a year ago.
For the quarter we reduced our allowance for loan losses by $2.5 million as compared to $0.9 million in the third quarter last year.
This reduction was a result of continued improvements in delinquencies delinquency roll rates and net charge-offs.
Now let me highlight our future funding plans.
As you may have already seen this morning we announced the completion of a $300 million term securitization of which $255 million was issued to third parties.
The Class A notes consisted of $165 million of notes which accrue interest at a fixed rate of 1.90% per year and $90 million of notes which accrue interest at a floating rate equal to LIBOR plus 55 basis points.
These rates compare very favorably to the 2-term securitizations that matured in September and October which accrued interest at fixed rates of 6.5% and 5.3% respectively.
The floating rates as high as LIBOR plus 300 basis points.
This is the 5-year deal allowing us to lock in liquidity at favorable spreads and interest rates for an extended period of time.
We have 1 securitization totaling $500 million maturing in 2012.
This matured securitization is entirely floating rate and accrues interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 200 basis points.
We intend to fund this maturing securitization with a new term securitization which we expect to close in the first quarter of 2012.
We would expect that this new securitization to be a mix of fixed and floating rate obligations.
Additionally we plan to fund future growth and maturing CDs with a combination of future term securitizations and by remaining active in the CD market throughout the year.
As we've mentioned last quarter our parent company revolving credit facility expires in June of 2012.
Negotiations are substantially complete and we expect to enter a new revolving credit facility in the next week or 2.
For the quarter operating expenses as a percent of revenues increased 40 basis points.
Much of this increase was a result of growth at World's Foremost Bank additional IT costs new store expenses and higher retail advertising.
Recall that in the fourth quarter of 2010 we had a $10 million SG&amp;A benefit from the settlement of an FDIC matter.
Adjusting for this we expect operating expenses to grow at the same rate of sales in the fourth quarter of 2011.
From an inventory standpoint inventory increased just 6% or $38 million year-over-year to $653 million.
The higher inventory levels are mostly related to our clothing and footwear categories and our focus on our core product.
We're very comfortable with current inventory levels and we believe we're well-positioned for the remainder of 2011.
Also you may have read in our earnings release Cabela's Board of Directors approved the share repurchase program designed to offset shareholder dilution resulting from the granting of equity-based compensation awards.
Accordingly we plan to repurchase up to 800 000 shares in the open market -- in open market transactions through February of 2012.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
Again we're very pleased our record financial results for the third quarter and the significant improvements we continue to make in our areas of strategic focus.
With that operator let's open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Rick Nelson with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Ralph I've got a question about the credit business the provision came in below our forecast about half of last year.
I'm wondering how we should think about that as we look forward over the remainder of the year and into next year.
And as that provision normalizes perhaps at a higher level next year to these lower costs securitizations today offset potentially in their provision.
Well as far as the provision goes for the quarter the provision was slight -- there's a couple of things that cause the provision to be less than of the charge-offs.
The first is when we get a charge-off number that also includes to some extent interest and fee income which is somewhere between 50 and 100 basis points.
And when that charges off those -- that's recorded as a reduction of interest and fee income so that's part of it.
But in addition to that as we've pointed out we released from our allowance for loan loss about $2.5 million which we can do the math on it we'll have some improvement on it.
Now we don't know what direction charge-offs are going to go next year.
Although I think your point they're probably -- they are near historical lows.
Research Division</strong> If we assume that those normalize at current levels is there a way to benchmark? Well if they normalize at current levels we could -- I could -- we could do it off-line but whatever $2.5 million is divided by $3 million divided by 4 I mean that would be the impact of the provision which probably over time will go up slightly and approach the charge-off level.
Research Division</strong> And then caps [ph] -- the second part of that you've done some lower costs securitizations during the year you're going to get full year benefit of those next year.
Does that more than offset I guess the potential for a higher on a provision next year? It certainly will help but it depends upon what the charge-offs are.
But just as we -- just the October securitization was $250 million which were -- it's exceeded all of our expectations.
But we're 335 basis points cheaper than that which is somewhere between $8 million and $10 million.
So that's clearly going to be very helpful to offset any increase we might see in the provision for loan losses.
Just on the October...
And that's just on the October piece.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And you've done some past securitizations also that were at lower rates prior? Yes.
So that will be a big help to offset any increase that we see in the provision for loan losses.
Research Division</strong> So Tommy I would like to ask you about the promotional strategies for the fourth quarter.
Do you continue to prune those promos and has that sort of flat comp? We've seen to date in the fourth quarter is that a sustainable comp expectation? Rick let me digress just for 1 second.
The promotion that we eliminated in the third quarter was a cash card promotion that gave a customer up to $150 discount on a $500 purchase.
This was a long-running multiyear promotion that the company ran.
As we've systematically looked at our Retail business and made improvements a remaining area of focus is the efficiency of where we spend our promotional dollars and how we discount.
This promotion generated negative gross profit dollars.
And we simply said that's not good for the company long term because you can imagine the customer gets really smart and they end up taking that discount to the lowest margin hard goods in the store.
So having said all that we do not have any promotions or sales discounts to prune in the fourth quarter.
And we will be appropriately promotional to last year in the fourth quarter with probably 1 change the theme of our entire promotional initiative from Black Friday going forward is to create more urgency to get to our store.
Research Division</strong> And Tommy just some general comments on the consumer.
How you see your customer right now? I know that the average ticket was up.
Is the high-end outperforming the opening price points or...
I wouldn't make that -- we wouldn't make that conclusion Rick.
I think the customers are very value conscious at almost any price point.
That's the sense we get.
Is the consumer probably a little bit softer now? Yes probably.
But we don't see it isolated to the high-end or the low-end.
And moving onto Reed Anderson with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Tommy I just want to follow up on that last that good color you provided on the promotion.
My guess would be that the buyer -- the participation of that promotion because it was very lucrative as a customer was pretty high.
Would you -- is that safe to assume and so because of that disproportionately in a big quarter like this that's part of the reason the impact is what it was? Yes absolutely Reed.
And if you'll remember to our last call we had just concluded July and we noted that comps were trending favorably in July.
The impact of this promotion span the months of August September and into the very early part of October.
So this promotion had a long life to it.
And was obviously very lucrative but not sustainable like we think in the best interest of the shareholders of the business.
Research Division</strong> That makes a lot of sense okay.
And then the other question I had just on comps.
I mean I've got to believe weather's a factor in the quarter most people particularly in the upper Midwest et cetera I mean it's been a lot warmer.
You don't want to use as an excuse but would you agree that that probably didn't help your business in the quarter? Well it helped fishing a lot.
Fishing stays strong much further but one could make the argument it did delay the onset of the hunting season.
But we don't like to give the weather reports on earnings calls.
So we have to manage around that.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then on the -- you've had a lot of categories you've touched if not all of them but some of the ones that I want to just get a little more color on firearms you've done some of the reset you've shifted around the kind of the look of there.
You've put in some new fixturing.
Is that working? Is that why you're seeing some strength in that business? Or do you think it's too early to tell? No it's not too early to tell.
The results in our Owatonna Minnesota store have been fairly dramatic and dramatic in a good way.
Customers have reacted very favorably to the ease of shopping.
And it's freed up our Outfitters to more effectively wait on customers.
In addition guns have continued to be strong then in Retail ammunition has continued to be strong.
In spite of the withdrawal of this promotion the weak areas were optics archery and hunting which are categories you would expect to be impacted by the elimination of this -- the cash card discount promotion in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then what about -- I know it's a much smaller piece of the business but the women's and kids you've kind of dramatically sort of repositioned that more like almost a department store in some locations.
Has that had any discernible impact positive or negative at this point? It's about flat during the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A couple more.
You talked about new store productivity up 30% to 40% just to kind of put some numbers around that.
I mean if I look back kind of before you were really opening these smaller stores you're talking $300-ish a foot on average for the company.
I mean are we talking numbers closer to $400 a foot for these smaller stores? Reed this is Ralph.
Yes.
it's too early to tell but I mean they're doing -- I mean we hit it at it on the call.
With -- as you know our old stores did somewhere around $325 a foot and we're doing 30% to 40% better than that.
So we're really pleased with how some of these new smaller stores are performing.
And it's giving us that confidence that we've talked about for 3 years that once Ralph and I and the organization saw the success that we expected we would begin to accelerate a lot more rapidly new store growth.
Research Division</strong> And Tommy is -- and just to be real specific I mean if you look at kind of the range of size you give for what you call a small store do you think you're more successful towards the lower end of that range or the -- I mean is it -- can it be truly more of an 80 000 square foot store? Yes absolutely.
And Springfield is smaller than 80 000 feet.
It's around 60 000 feet all-in.
That store's been really strong.
So yes the bias is to the 80 000 and below.
Edmonton was -- is 76 000 feet and it's just been phenomenal.
Which I think also goes Reed to talk about the opportunities in Canada.
We feel really good about that.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
The -- 2 more.
On inventory that's a very conservative number that looks good.
2 questions.
One is how much of that increases is probably cost-related just to input costs et cetera?  Secondly just what would that look like on a per-foot basis in the stores? Yes.
Some part of the inventory is definitely cost-related.
I'll let Ralph talk about the store level inventories.
But 1 other color comment we feel really good about where the quality of our inventories are positioned as we head into the fall selling season.
We're not overbought underbought.
We're appropriately bought for the season.
With respect to Retail inventory I would tell you a large -- at least in the dollar amount a large piece of the dollar amount has to do with Canada.
And that's just because those guys go through their growing pains up there.
I would tell you Retail -- of course I don't spend a lot of time talking about Retail per square foot because so much of the inventory has actually held share in than the DCs.
But I think Retail's inventory per square foot is basically consistent with the year ago.
Of course -- that's of course is excluding any of the inventory in the DC.
Fill rate is a way more important metric for us because our customers drive a long way to our stores.
And they don't like to be disappointed by empty pegs.
We'll move on to Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit more about the Direct business? Obviously Retail feels like you -- there was a little bit of a nonprofitable promotion that you pulled off affected the impact of the sales.
But in the Direct business nice improvement there.
Anything you can point to specifically? Yes.
Really 3 things: First improved functionality and fill rate.
Fill rates were up nicely.
And we made some enhancements to functionality.
For instance now a customer can see a product stock before they add it to their cart and that was a feedback point we had gotten from our customers that they wanted to see improved.
Secondly we've made some significant advances in improving content on cabelas.com.
If you go on the website you will see Deer Nation.
And the rut report which is a program that we've launched in conjunction with Field &amp; Stream and Outdoor Life to make cabelas.com the headquarters for deer hunters in the critical deer fall selling season.
And then we tested a number of promotional ideas significantly more Web-only promotions and we tested a couple of 4-day events with success.
We saw our visitors rise about 8% to cabelas.com which was a really good trend And we've done a number of other things in social mobile and digital.
I wouldn't say they're needle movers and I would close by Direct -- we were encouraged but we still have a long way to go.
Our new CMO Scott Williams is on-board and he's been here 3 weeks.
So he's beginning to develop a near-term and long-term plan to get consistent growth.
And it's not going to be an overnight miracle but we really pleased with the progress we made in the quarter.
There are signs of life in this business.
Research Division</strong> That's good to hear.
And then on the merchandising margin expansion obviously continued improvements.
Can you talk about your kind of the private brand where we sit today kind of where we're going? Where was different that from Q3 last year? There is a much higher level of intensity in all of our media and in our store presentations on Cabela's branded merchandise.
If you receive our catalogs and I hope you do you will have seen in the third quarter of this year versus the third quarter of last year significantly more content-focused on Cabela's branded merchandise in every single category.
And we will continue to increase that focus in the coming quarters and years.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just lastly a real state question for you.
How do you think about moving forward repurposed real estate versus new buildings? And then also could you just kind of frame up the potential opportunity within Canada? And give us an idea of the competition that you're facing out there right now? Let me -- I'll let Ralph talk about real estate but I want to touch on Canada first.
One of the reasons we're so excited about Canada is that the relative strength of Canadian outdoor retailers to those in the United States it pales in comparison.
So we sense a real competitive opportunity to bring the Cabela's concept to Canada and really catch those folks in Canada very flat-footed which is what's happened thus far.
Ralph you want to touch on real estate? Yes just talking about real state we continue to do for repurposed real estate.
But it seems like as we look at more -- there's clearly some operational issues with doing that.
It seems like as we're looking at new opportunities there's just -- they tend to gravitate towards new real estate.
As a matter of fact if we go through the stores for next year -- let's see we'd open 5 stores next year I believe they're all going to be new.
We'll continue to look at repurposed real estate but it seems like mostly opportunities are new particularly when you're looking for prime locations.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question will come from Jonathon Grassi with Longbow Research.
When we look at the comp store sales trends by month in the quarter does it correlate pretty strongly with the merchandise margin improvement? Yes so are they pretty correlated month-by-month? I didn't -- let me touch on the inter-quarter trend.
We were slightly up in July slightly down in August down a little further in September when the real impact of the cash card promotion hit.
And then we have trended back to flat in October.
So that's pretty much the trend.
And I haven't thought about the margins by month.
I don't have that in front of me.
We can get that for you from a high-level overview.
But I suspect they probably trended close to that.
So the comp -- it's flat thus so far in October and you said the merchandise margins still has improved as well I mean -- but is the level of improvement decelerated? Or is it kind of running close to where it was for the third quarter? Ralph have you got that? No.
It's decelerated some.
I mean the margin improvement we're seeing so far in the fourth quarter where there's still lot and we're still making meaningful progress but they're not as much as they were in the third quarter just because of the absence of the promotion.
Right okay.
And then...
You get back to normal improvements in Q4.
Okay got you.
And then you had noted that the promotional pruning is somewhat limited going forward.
I guess where you guys see most opportunity to get the remaining merchandise margin improvement of the 200 to 300 basis points? Where's the biggest upside opportunity there? Well it continues to be in those areas that we've talked about all along which is fully implementing our preseason planning and in-season management initiatives even further collaboration with our vendors.
We've made good strides but we're not in the ninth inning there and maximizing the intense focus on Cabela's-branded merchandise which have between 600 and 1 000 or more basis points of advantage to branded goods.
Okay.
And then just you have mentioned Scott Williams is just coming on about 3 weeks ago.
And is he -- can you give us any insight into kind of the early read he's given you on where you can step up or improve the current marketing platform especially for the Direct business? Is there any I guess low-hanging fruit you can kind of just guide us through right now? Yes.
During the interview process Scott obviously did a lot of work on the company and clearly saw that we were a little too transactional on cabelas.com that we lack some functionalities that our platform actually had.
And that there was an opportunity to link better marketing launches and messaging across the enterprise.
But I think Scott's wealth of experience in digital commerce he just saw all kinds of opportunities for us to improve and use technologies and techniques that are pretty widely used across the digital space.
And I think being here 3 weeks has only validated that to him.
okay got you.
And then guys finally can you give us the marketing fees paid to the merchandise business? Yes.
To Direct the change was the Direct business was up $8.5 million and Direct business -- I'm sorry Retail was up $8.5 million Direct was up $5.2 million.
Moving on to Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Guys can you give us what the comps were in October of last year just for year-over-year kind of look at it? We don't give them by month Mark.
The quarterly comp a year ago that was up 7.3%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I guess maybe I'm digging too much for it but just trying to see if you're flat kind of what the quarter last year look like sequentially through the quarter.
Yes.
I mean I understand what you're asking we just -- I mean that's going down to a rat hole to disclose them by month.
But I mean look we clearly understand that the fourth quarter was the toughest quarter which we're up against from a comp perspective.
Tommy already alluded to that we're flat to the first whatever it is 3.5 weeks which feels pretty good given the fact that it is such a tough comp -- it's such a s tough comparable.
And we think Mark that our promotional plans for the balance of the quarter especially from Black Friday through Cyber Monday and then into the year we're going to be pretty aggressive.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then second it seems like a big product that you've definitely pushed on the branded side is the New Way to Hunt.
Can you give us any update on how that product's being received and anything that you've learned from the process? It's been received very well.
And I think what's important is we combined a really good product with enhanced presentation in our Retail stores.
So it's much easier to shop camo clothing from base layer all the way to outer wear in our stores than ever before.
And that we think is just a great combination of good product and good in-store merchandising and the product is terrific.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly back to the Canadian opportunity.
It seems like there's a lot of opportunity for you there.
Can you just -- do you have enough kind of capacity out of your current distribution center? Well we have -- since we bought S.I.R.
we've built a new distribution center in Canada so that has clearly given us some expanded capability.
But here on -- the right issue is how fast can we grow that given a relatively small management team in Canada.
But given how well the execution within Edmonton it's really increased our confidence that we can ramp that up.
I mean it's clearly not a capital constraint.
It's a people constraint.
And given what we've seen in the last year from our management team in Canada we feel pretty good about accelerating growth up there.
And our next question will come from David Magee with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of questions on the new stores.
First are you seeing a similar penetration with regard to the credit card sign-up in those new stores as you've seen in the past? Yes we are which is pretty encouraging.
I mean -- and you see that we had a slight acceleration of the growth rate of our Cabela's CLUB Visa any where from 7% to almost 8% growth rate between Q2 and Q3.
Some of that obviously is an impact of the new stores.
And yes we feel good about it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then secondly on the new stores is the holiday assortment similar at the new store as the legacy stores? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you think that -- perform about the same way I guess like at legacy stores in the fourth quarter? Well what's -- what we noted was that our next-generation stores are performing because of ease of shopping and more concise merchandise assortments to the local market.
They're performing significantly better.
So we have great expectations for our new stores in the holiday season plus they tend to be in under-penetrated markets.
And our customers they like that.
They like being able to shop our stores where in the past they weren't able to.
Springfield Oregon is a great example of that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tommy and then lastly what is your current thinking regarding gun sales and eventually that's got to sort of moderately slow down.
What is your current thinking regarding the possible impact on Cabela's when that eventually happens? Well I thought it was going to slow down about 5 years ago.
So I'm probably not a good soothsayer of the gun business.
But look all indications are that gun ammunition sales because of lots of factors not the least of which is increased participation will be strong through next year -- have no reason to believe they will not be and we don't see any trends that indicate that.
Well particularly with next year being an election year we're -- we do not believe that guns will -- would be down in 2012.
Now to your question about what happens what they do -- when they do go down I mean we think that there's a wallet share gain being made by the gun piece of our business and we think the other piece of our business will increase to offset it.
Our next question will come from Jim Duffy with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> By my math the merchandise margin in the quarter grew faster than SG&amp;A.
Again by my math that's the first time you've done that since 3Q last year.
Is there any coincidence that the last time that happened was the third quarter as well? Or do you believe you have this formula wired and you have sidelines to that continuing to be the case? Well look we clearly expected to continue to be the case and the first half -- the only reason to think it's more likely to happen in the third quarter as we've started on this margin expansion initiative we've always believed the third quarter is an opportunity to grow it.
A year ago it's because we got rid of a lot of clearance activity and this year it was because of the promotions.
So I suppose there's some reason to believe it's most likely to happen in the third quarter.
Having said that in the first half of this year we clearly have higher expenses than we wanted to or should have or whatever.
So by managing the expenses going forward in 2012 I guess we're anticipating that happens more times than it doesn't.
That's certainly our goal Jim.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense and that's certainly an appropriate goal.
Ralph if you look at the SG&amp;A x pre-opening expense what do you think your growth rate of that will look like as you look out to '12? Well it's -- obviously based on what I should -- we've just said it should be something less than total revenue growth which will be somewhere in the high single-digit area.
And although that's largely determined based upon what happens to the comp and the change in the Direct business the challenge we're having with managing SG&amp;A.
And I know the comp was enough this quarter but for the past 3 or 4 quarters when the comp's been up it's been up by approximately the amount by which the Direct business is down.
So it makes it tough to leverage the overhead in the business.
If we got in a scenario where you had up comps and up Direct business it just be a lot easier to manage the SG&amp;A.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Have you guys reached the baseline for catalogs SIRC at this point? Or you continue to trim that? I think Jim that's 1 of the challenges that our new CMO is really looking hard at.
How do we migrate thoughtfully and prudently without wrecking the business? Catalogs spend to more digital medium and social mediums and mobile mediums.
And sitting here today I wouldn't say that we have that answer but over time managing SIRC and the cost of catalogs down is a given.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess Scott's got a long Sydney winter ahead of him in which he can think about that right? It started yesterday with about 4 inches of snow.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I expect he's [indiscernible].
Luckily he's a Kansas City boy so he's used to cold weather.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well Joe and his team have done a phenomenal job at the bank metrics are looking really solid there.
Ralph I want to circle something back or back to something you used to say.
You used to talk about provisions running roughly 40 to 50 bps below average charge-offs.
That hasn't really been the case since 4Q '09.
I understand the variance from that is just a matter of searching for a bottom in the charge-offs.
And looking at the trend in delinquencies they seem to be at an all-time low.
Is that 40 to 50 bps spread still a good number to work with going forward? Or is there something else we should be thinking about? Well I think 40 to 50 I talked about this a little bit earlier around 50 basis points is the difference attributable to the fact that part -- when we give you a charge-off number of 2.25% or whatever it was for this about 50 basis points of that is accrued interest and fee income and that when we reverse it through the provision is recorded as negative interest in fee income.
So in almost any environment there should always be a 50-basis-point difference.
Now in this quarter there's a little bit more than that which was attributable to the reduction we had in our allowance for loan loss of $2.5 million.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> To put it another way yes once you get to a baseline in...
Well once you get to a baseline it should still always be 50 basis points less is I guess the short answer to your question.
But I mean -- by the way I mean we have been thrilled with how that business has performed.
Joe and his team did a good job and to your point this is almost as low as we've ever seen charge-offs.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
The small sample size but it -- can you comment on the productivity spread between your next-gen Canada stores and your U.S.
stores? Well what I can comment on Jim is that margins -- aggregate margins in our Canadian stores are trending much higher than our U.S.
stores just because of a different competitor set and a different approach to promotions which gives us more reason to be attracted to growing in Canada.
And it's a meaningful difference in margins.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well I was going to say what's the tax rate impact on out growth in Canada? Should that continue to bring the tax rate down? Or is it so small that that's is not --doesn't have impact.
As you accelerate business in Canada it should have some positive about a slight positive benefit to the tax rate.
I would -- it's not a huge factor but I won't put upward pressure on it.
Just adding onto Canada I would -- I'm sorry if I'm adding to Tommy's answer here.
I would tell you for the most part all of the metrics in Canada are improved pretty significantly over the U.S.
The only challenge we're having in Canada is sort of managing the expense base as we ramp that business up for future growth.
So -- and by that I mean sort of corporate overhead and merchandise.
I mean we started that business with a $15 million to $20 million business and have grown it significantly.
And there's expense issue as you ramp that up.
And moving on to Aaron Goldstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you maybe could help clarify on guidance a little bit it looks like you said the beat in this quarter is about $0.06 it looks like first consensus and then prior consensus it was $2.
So is that implying $2.06 for the year and implying about $0.99 for 4Q? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of the marketing fee dollars is there any change in the way you're allocating those? Or is that continue to be upon just performance of your credit card business from stores that you're [indiscernible]? There's no change.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just diving deeply in the comp trends.
I know you're not going to give by month but at least is it fair to say that comparisons build throughout the rest of this quarter? And that the back half of this month November December are bigger quarters than October? Well they're bigger absolutely there's no question.
I don't know if the comps get any tougher as you move throughout the quarter.
But in absolute dollars obviously they're bigger.
November and December important this year just like in every other year.
And that is all the questions we have in the queue.
At this time I'd like to turn it back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you all for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you again soon.
Thanks.
And this does conclude our conference call for today.
We'd like to thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Inc.
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Chris Gay Director Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and special note regarding forward-looking statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our earnings release and website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I'll turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Chris.
And good morning everyone.
A record fourth quarter and full-year financial results validate that our strategies are working and provide us with the confidence required to accelerate retail store expansion.
For the quarter we realized strong growth in merchandise margin retail and direct segment operating margin; improved performance in our Cabela's CLUB Visa program; and increases in market share.
This strong performance led to our highest level of return on capital in more than 6 years.
We ended the year with return on capital of 14.3% compared to return on capital of 9.6% just 3 years ago.
Improvements in return on capital are due to our continuing efforts on balance sheet management and significant improvements in profitability.
With regard to profitability we are particularly pleased with the improvements in retail profitability we have realized over the last 2 years which has been a key focus of ours and a prerequisite to accelerating store growth.
For the year retail profitability increased 240 basis points to 17%.
This compares to retail profitability of just 11.7% 2 years ago.
As a result of the progress we have made improving retail profitability and return on capital we are accelerating our retail store expansion.
Additionally as a part of our retail expansion strategy we believe a unique competitive opportunity exists to penetrate markets with less than 250 000 people around the United States and Canada.
In order to serve these markets we have developed a new Cabela's Outpost store format.
These stores will be 40 000 square feet and will bring the excitement of the Cabela's retail experience to customers in these underserved markets.
The stores will be designed to have an innovative flexible floor plan a plan we internally call Core-Flex which will provide our customers an ever-changing visual look at the center core of the store complemented by a revolutionary digital signage concept.
Our Outpost stores will initially target the Western United States the upper Midwest and Canada and are designed to be additive to our growth plans for larger next-generation stores.
As a result we now expect to open a total of 6 stores in 2012: 4 next-generation stores in the United States; 1 next-generation store in Canada; and our first Outpost store in Union Gap Washington slated to open in the fall of 2012.
Looking forward to 2013 we expect to open 6 next-generation stores in the U.S.
and as many as 3 Outpost stores.
Earlier this morning we announced several of these locations and we are very excited to enter these new markets.
Additionally in 2013 we intend to relocate our existing Winnipeg store.
Now turning to merchandise gross margin which is another key initiative of ours.
For the quarter merchandise gross margin increased 40 basis points to 36.4%.
During the quarter we saw a significant strength in the Firearms and Shooting categories which caused a significant mixed shift into these lower-margin categories.
For the quarter this adverse mix resulted in a 50-basis point headwind to merchandise margin.
As you will recall 2 years ago we introduced strategic initiatives focused on improving retail profitability.
We set these initiatives in place because we needed to significantly improve retail profitability for our retail model to work.
As we stated several times we set a goal to exit 2012 with consolidated gross margin 200 to 300 basis points above 2009 levels.
This initiative is a critical component of improving retail profitability to make our retail model work and to accelerate store expansion.
Since 2009 we've raised consolidated merchandise gross margin by 100 basis points.
However what is more important is that in our Retail segment merchandise gross margin has increased 190 basis points from 2009 levels.
The improvement in retail merchandise margin has been a significant contributor to the increases in retail profitability over the last 2 years and is one of the reasons we are accelerating retail store expansion.
We still expect to meet our consolidated merchandise margin goal however since we based our goal on exit rate we'll see the remainder of the benefit in 2013.
Now let's look at our Direct business.
For the quarter adjusted for divestitures Direct revenue declined just 1.9%.
Despite the modest decline in revenue Direct segment operating margin improved 150 basis points to 18%.
For the quarter multichannel customers increased 1.9%.
In our Retail segment for the quarter comparable store sales increased 1.7% recall that this is on top of the 7.3% comp store sales increase we realized in last year's fourth quarter.
And I'm pleased to report that again this year we had a very strong performance from Black Friday through Christmas.
Sharp advertising solid merchandising and inventory planning and great in-store customer service helped drive very strong results during the holiday season.
For the quarter average ticket increased roughly 8% and retail operating margins increased for the 11th consecutive quarter.
Now let's look at operating expenses which again saw sequential improvement.
Excluding impairment and other special charges operating expense as a percent of revenue decreased 20 basis points to 29.6% of revenue compared to 29.8% of revenue in the year-ago quarter.
Over the past couple of years we've made investments in retail store labor retail store infrastructure and IT systems which have all contributed to growing our business.
While we continue to make some of these investments for 2012 we expect to grow operating expenses at a slower rate than revenue growth.
Before discussing Cabela's CLUB Visa I'd like to comment on our ability to lower inventories in 2011 in spite of warm weather and its negative impact on cold-weather apparel.
It is a testament to our merchants that their efforts over the last 3 years in all aspects of vendor collaboration allowed for quick reaction with our partners to get ahead of and not behind the potential inventory risk of a warmer winter.
These actions resulted in a 3% decrease in inventory levels in 2011.
As a result we see little to no margin risk in the first quarter of 2012 related to liquidation of cold-weather gear.
Now let's look at our Cabela's CLUB Visa program which had another exceptional quarter as we continued to see strong growth in average active accounts lower funding costs and improvements in delinquencies and net charge-offs.
For the quarter average active accounts increased 8%.
We also realized significant improvements in net charge-offs which are at the lowest levels we've seen in more than 4 years.
There are several factors that make us very confident that our Cabela's CLUB Visa program will continue to perform very well.
First we expect to continue to benefit from lower funding expense as higher securitizations mature.
Second last month the Fed indicated it would keep interest rates at current levels for at least the next several years indicating to us that even after 2012 we do not expect to face any pressures from higher funding cost.
And finally with the acceleration of new store openings we expect account growth to remain strong for the next several years.
With this backdrop we are very confident that the Cabela's CLUB Visa program will continue to generate significant rewards for customers increased customer loyalty for Cabela's and provide higher profitability for our shareholders.
Now looking at guidance.
It is clear our strategies are working and our next-generation stores are achieving superior results.
As a result we expect to achieve double-digit full-year earnings per share growth in 2012.
In closing I want to personally thank Cabela's outfitters for a great 2011.
We appreciate all of your hard work and effort in cherishing and delighting our customers each and every day.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance at World's Foremost Bank.
Ralph? Thanks Tommy.
Following up on Tommy's remarks we're very pleased with our fourth quarter results and results we achieved with regard to retail profitability merchandised margin and operating expenses which helped drive increases in Retail and Direct segment profitability.
For the quarter Financial Services revenue as a percentage of average managed credit card loans increased to 160 basis points to 10.6% compared to 9% in the year-ago quarter.
Increases in Financial Services revenue primarily due to higher interest and fee income reduced interest expense and lower provision for loan losses.
For the quarter net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans improved 126 basis points to 2.12% compared to 3.38% in the fourth quarter last year.
Additionally we continue to see improvements in delinquencies.
Greater than 30-day delinquencies were just 0.87% as compared to 1.13% a year ago.
Greater than 60-day delinquencies were 0.53% as compared to 0.72% a year ago and greater than 90-day delinquencies were 0.27% as compared to 0.37% a year ago.
As we do periodically we recently hired an outside specialist to validate that the financial relationship between our Cabela's CLUB Visa program and our Merchandise business is at market rates.
As part of that study we learned that in this relationship it's common for the retailer to receive their economics as a fixed percentage of some metric like charge volume and have the volatility in credit card earnings reflected in the bank.
Consequently beginning in 2012 we'll be changing our arrangement by eliminating the existing marketing fee structure and after reimbursing the merchandise business for certain out-of-pocket expenses replacing the existing marketing fee with a fixed license fee equal to 70 basis points on total Cabela's CLUB charge volume.
We don't expect this change to have a meaningful impact in the total amount of current or future economics transferred between are Cabela's CLUB Visa business and our Merchandising business.
Now let me highlight our future funding plans.
We have one securitization totaling $425 million maturing in 2012.
This securitization is entirely floating rate and accrues interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 200 basis points.
We intend to fund this maturing securitization with a new term securitization when we expect to close in the first quarter of 2012.
We also expect this new securitization to be a mix of fixed and floating rate obligations.
After March our next term securitization doesn't mature until January of 2015.
Additionally we expect to renew one of our variable-rate conduit agreements early in our efforts to the lather the maturity of these facilities to have only one facility come due in any given year.
Looking forward we plan to fund future growth with a combination of future term securitizations and by remaining active in the certificate of deposit market throughout the year.
As most of you are aware we entered into a new revolving credit agreement during the quarter at the parent company.
The new $450 million 5-year credit facility may be increased to $500 million subject to certain terms and conditions and provide sufficient liquidity as we accelerate retail store expansion.
Also during the year we generated a record $366 million of cash flow from operations and EBITDA was a record $322 million.
We ended the year with $305 million of cash of which $188 million was held at the parent company.
During the quarter we realized $7.8 million pretax of impairment and restructuring charges.
These are mostly related to the write-down of economic development bonds where the development happens slower than we previously anticipated.
We have now assumed minimal future development and do not anticipate future write-downs of economic development bonds.
For the year impairment and restructuring charges totaled $12.2 million pretax and were mostly related to the write-down of economic development bonds and land held for sale.
This compares to an impairment and other special charge of $13.6 million pretax in fiscal 2010.
Last year we announced that the Cabela's board of directors approved a share repurchase program designed to offset shareholder dilution resulting from the granting of equity-based compensation awards.
During the fourth quarter we purchased 800 000 shares in the open market at open -- the open market transactions at an average price of $24.95.
Additionally as a result of this program the company intends to repurchase up to 800 000 shares of its common stock in open market transactions due February of next year.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
Again we're very pleased with our record financial results for the fourth quarter and full year.
And the significant improvements we continue to make in our areas of strategic focus.
With that operator let's open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Rick Nelson with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Tommy can you talk about store economics if you're anticipating from the Outpost stores sales or sales per square foot of the four-wall profitability paying investments and inventory and fixtures and equipment.
I guess that Springfield Oregon store is closed to that because as we have right now.
Rick let me give you a little color first and then we'll go through the economics.
The original idea for this Cabela's Outpost store came as a result of 2 data points.
First we have a store in Kearney Nebraska that is in a very small market that does very very well.
As you know about a year ago we opened Springfield Oregon and that store as we've noted before has performed very well.
And it peaked our interest that maybe there was a competitive opportunity in these markets with less than 250 000 people that clearly have high concentrations of hunters fishers and campers.
And for those of you who followed the industry a long time if there even is a competitor in a market like that they typically are not very sophisticated.
There is no seasonal role of merchandise.
You kind of see the same thing you see every time you go in.
So we challenged our team to come up with really a revolutionary new idea for a smaller market.
And at the center of this Outpost idea is the center part of the store which I referenced we call Core-Flex that area the center part of the store will flex a full 4 times a year.
So early spring late spring early fall late fall so the customer gets a constantly changing exciting new look.
And setting that off is a really unique signage digital signage program that for those of you coming to our analyst day we'll let you see.
But it's all designed to create that Cabela's retail experience in a smaller market.
This is way more than just a 40 000-foot box in a small market.
A lot more than that.
The last thing I would say is we're going to have a much deeper focus on Cabela's branded merchandise in these smaller format stores.
We also think that accessing the entire line through our in-store kiosk program we're going to have high penetration there.
So I hope that gives a little color to just how excited we are by this additional opportunity for growth in addition to the Next-gen stores and I'll have Ralph walk you through the store economics.
I can share with you Rick some of the store economics.
But I would tell you on a per square foot basis they're probably not reasonably different than our next-generation store.
We expect sales per square foot to be sort of in that $400 to $500 a square foot with contribution margins somewhere in the high teens and then after our -- then the layer on top of that sort of a 9% corporate overhead charge.
So we expect to get IRR's in a -- somewhere in those mid-teens.
The capital investment for one of these new stores we expect to be about $10 million.
Research Division</strong> What is the long-term potential you see for the Outpost and as well as the Next-gen stores? Well the near-term opportunity for the Outpost stores we think as I said in the script was in the Western U.S.
certainly the upper Midwest and in Western Canada.
Beyond that you can just imagine how many markets there are where there are deep concentrations of hunters fishermen and campers across the entire country where we can roll out this format.
In next-generation stores gosh we just have a very long runway left and I hope you get the sense of the last 3 years we've worked really hard to make sure we had a sustainable model that we could roll out before we accelerated growth.
And as we finished 2011 we just feel we're in a position to start growing because of our own control of our own business plus there is competitive opportunity to take market share in a big way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Also I would like to ask you about the Direct business.
I know you got new management now overseeing that operation.
If you could discuss the revenues and the operating costs in that business highly divide between catalog and Internet and what sort of opportunity there might be for cost takeout as you migrate people from the catalog to the Internet? Well Scott is -- Scott Williams our new CMO is beginning to lay his plan out.
At its core is a shift from print first which is how our process works here as a catalog legacy merchant to digital first because digital is the future.
So we will work digital first and then catalogs will flow from there.
Certainly in that transition there is an opportunity to lessen the amount of money that we spend on catalogs and as we go through the next couple of years I think that will become self-evident.
Concurrently we're testing a lot of things on the web.
We have torn down a couple of merchandise categories to their core looked at enhanced presentation better presentation of the merchandise deeper content enhanced focus on page search and in thus far in the first quarter we've also tested some enhanced shipping offers that those of you who are cabelas.com shoppers would have seen and we're pretty pleased with the results of those initiatives.
So as we move through time there will definitely be a shift to digital and a lessening of catalog.
And we'll keep you posted as we move through time on how that's going.
Rick we spend call it $135 million in Direct Marketing cost and I would tell you 80% of that is paper.
Now what's unclear to me is whether or not is how we -- as we begin to transform that business I'm not certain that $136 million number goes down.
You most likely will see a significant shift in the mix of it that we think would drive more sales.
So it's unclear to me whether or not the opportunity is in a expense reduction or a sales increase but that's something Scott and his team is working out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'd like to also ask you also about the bank policy change.
What prompted that and how that's going to affect the presentation now as we move forward? Well first of all we don't think in the absolute dollars transferred it's going to make a significant difference.
But quite frankly what -- as we were visiting with you guys over the years there's a lot of confusion to explain how improvements in the bank actually ended up benefiting the Retail and the Direct business.
So as we started looking at comparables it became pretty clear to us that what most people do is transfer a fixed percentage of some metric and ours was 70 basis points on total charge volume.
So the only change you'll see in the future as we move forward to the extent there's volatility in the earnings of our Financial Services business that will show a path to Financial Services business and not somewhere else.
Where it belongs.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And finally if I could ask you any comment on comp sales trends in early 2012 and what your expectations might be there.
And where do you think we fit in the firearms cycle? Well let's -- I'll -- that was 2 questions.
I'll take the first one.
Comps have accelerated nicely from our Q4 run rate and let me remind everyone we're growing over 8.9% from last year in Q1.
So nice acceleration in comps.
The Direct business started off slower than I would have liked in January but as a result of some changes to promotional cadence and some testing of some enhanced shipping offers and the site redesigns that I mentioned the Direct business in February has come back very very strong.
And just a comment if there's been a negative to the Direct business recovering as we test enhanced shipping offers remember that flows through the margin line so there was some pressure on margins but as -- on rate but a pretty significant lift in dollars.
And we're going to continue to test those kinds of offers and others as we go through the year but good start through Q1.
And secondly guns.
Rick as I've said on numerous calls the -- this extension of acceleration of gun demand has lasted 5 years longer than I thought it would be and I spent the bulk of my life and my career in this business.
I mean it just continues to be really strong in guns and ammo.
We have continued to test increasing margins in those hot categories and have done so successfully with no impact thus far on demand velocity.
And we will continue to do so.
Next we'll hear from Reed Anderson with Northland Securities.
Research Division</strong> Let's see.
Let's start.
I want to go back to kind of one of Rick's earlier questions.
Just getting back to that prototype.
In terms of -- you gave that -- kind of that -- the metrics and investments.
So that I'm curious Tommy just as you think about that does that change your thinking at all about how you're going to kind of grow the Direct business down to road? Is that going to have an impact what's going to make it harder to grow that or have you seen what you've seen in Oregon tell you that you can still grow direct with more smaller store penetration? Reed I think we -- just as a matter of course in our company we believe that with enhancements to our cabelas.com site the rationalization of catalogs and all those opportunities we can grow the Direct business and rollout new smaller prototypes bigger prototypes our next-generation stores so we just don't acknowledge to ourselves that the Direct business can't grow.
Will it be pressured from these stores? Certainly.
But we still think we can grow that business because of the competitive environment.
We -- to give you some color when we open a store in a market and it does depend on the market it probably hurts the Direct business $2 million to $4 million per store.
So if you take the midpoint and call it $3 million you open 5 stores in the year let's say that's $15 million of pressure you put on the Direct business which is 150 basis points on the growth rate.
So to Tommy's point it's still downward pressure but we think you have to be able to grow the business despite that.
Research Division</strong> That make sense.
That's helpful.
Then on the promotional -- kind of promotional programs et cetera couple questions.
One is given kind of the way things shaped up and across the industry whether et cetera I'm just curious.
At one point did you have to -- did you alter if you did alter your promotional cadence in the fourth quarter because it seem like you were coming out of Black Friday and really -- and you kind of comment to this in your prepared remarks that even through Christmas and may be a little bit past that you were pretty much -- it seemed like where you wanted to be I'm just curious what the last week or so might have looked like.
And then secondly it looked like from what I saw that you brought back that tiered promotion that you kind of eliminated in 3Q but with the stipulation that you couldn't use that for firearms.
And I'm curious if that's the case was the -- was it still a very successful promotion? You just didn't have the margin that you used to get when people use that to buy guns? Yes.
That's exactly.
We did not pull that promotion.
But what we did was we modified it to make the exclusion that you referenced.
Let me comment to your earlier question.
It was clear into September and early October that the weather was warm and the weather forecast that we were looking at said that probably wasn't going to change through the fourth quarter.
And I think we felt so good about our Black Friday through Christmas promotional plan that we really didn't change very much.
We started planning for Black Friday almost days after Black Friday in 2010.
And we were having a comp over big numbers because in '10 it was a record Black Friday through Christmas.
And what we focused on was urgency.
We wanted to make sure that instead of coming to Cabela's for the third or fourth or fifth store you've visited we wanted you to be at our store first.
So we opened at 5:00 in the morning and we had more than 50 000 people in line at our stores.
And we also made another subtle change which was this acknowledgment that people shop on Black Friday for themselves as much as they shop for other people.
So our merchandising efforts played to that and it really it worked in a big way for us.
So while the lack of Pac Boots sales and heavy outerwear were a headwind we just felt really good about our plans and plowed ahead.
And I would tell you not just where we comped over big comp numbers from Q4 last year the 36 point merchandise margin performance in 2010 that was our highest quarterly margin rate performance in all of 2010 and we comped over that by 40 basis points.
So our teams did a great job.
Research Division</strong> One last question for Ralph probably.
Ralph I was just kind of looking at the trend.
If you look at account growth if you will in your business or in the Credit Card business over the last several years and you look at that kind of relative to square footage and things like that I mean it really looks like I mean there is obviously a correlation there.
But if I think of where your square footage is headed I mean it seems like almost a given that your account growth should be a double-digit type of number this year and next.
Does that logic makes sense to you? No I think that's right.
First of all just commenting on account growth it has been -- I've been very pleasantly surprised at the amount of account we've been able to generate with relatively few additional stores into the base.
And to your point Reed as you start adding in more and more stores will put upward pressure on that growth rate to where it's low- to mid-double digit numbers as we continue to move forward.
So yes we're pretty excited about that business and what more retail stores will mean to it.
We'll now move to a question from Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Quick question for you on the mix of the business for the fourth quarter.
Obviously the soft goods was probably a little bit challenged as you've mentioned.
But moving forward that's been a nice kind of tailwind over the last couple of years here.
Should we expect that in terms of the mix of sales in the store to continue to improve in 2012? The mix of soft goods? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes I would expect so.
And one of the things we're doing because we have all kinds of merchandise in our stores as we've seen this lack of winter there's a blessing to that because it means spring is going to be here more than likely earlier.
And we took advantage of the opportunity to do our spring rolls in our southern stores much earlier than we have planned.
And all the work that we've done the last 3 years to be good at that.
We're going to get after the Fishing and Camping business much earlier than we did last year.
And the absence of flooding in the Midwest unless we just get creamed with snow in the next 30 days.
The fishing season ought to be good.
And we sell a lot of fishing apparel so we're optimistic about the spring.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then I guess on the corporate overhead side.
Just saw some pretty good growth in that particular number year-over-year.
Just wondering how I should think about that number kind of moving forward in 2012.
Should that be at a run rate below the sales trends that you're planning for 2012 and what kind of drove the big increase in the fourth quarter? For those of you on the call if you'll remember in Q2 while we were spending at a rate north of our rate of sale in the first 2 quarters of last year we told you that we expected that to change in Q3 and Q4 and it in fact did.
And I'll let Ralph comment on '12.
No just I think as we go forward we're going to be able to control that growth to be slightly less than the growth in the sales so...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly I wanted to clarify Tommy I think a comment you made earlier on the merchandise margin.
So should we expect merchandise margin improvement in 2012 or did we expect to get all the way to that lower end of that 200 to 300 basis point improvement or are we thinking that there could be because of the mix shift and the strong demand you're seeing in the firearms cycle that we may be 50 basis points below that? No.
I think as we get into 2013 we'll capture our goal and just from a continuous improvement process standpoint we think we get -- we can get -- we've got enough opportunities to get margin improvement year after year after year across the business.
In any given year there'll be headwinds and tailwinds but that's our job to manage around that.
And we'll now hear from David Magee with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One the traffic in the fourth quarter I guess was down just sort of doing the math of the transactions in the comp.
Is -- does that number turn positive now in the first quarter with the better top line trends? Nothing I'm aware of.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the acceleration in comps you may have seen so far this year you think is because of this further expansion and the transaction size? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly thinking about the [indiscernible] and the Direct business over the next couple of years how important is the international opportunity in that framework? It's an opportunity.
But I wouldn't say that that's a needle mover for us.
It's just not a big enough business.
It grew really nicely last year but not enough to impact consolidated results.
And I don't expect that to happen this year or next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is that because of the brand name not being cost? Shipping cost.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Shipping.
Okay.
And then lastly do you anticipate on the bank side that consumers will take on more leverages as the year progresses and I'm thinking that will be a good thing for you all if that's the case? Well it is if you look on an individual account it will be interesting as we move forward in that business because the key metrics as you guys and I think about it in that business which are average accounts average balance and charge-offs and we've had some benefit as we've slowed growth in that business that average balances has risen significantly as those accounts have matured.
Just as we started adding more accounts that's going to put downward pressure on average balance and probably some downward pressure on charge-offs.
Now having said that if people -- and we've seen that if people are willing to take on more leverage that may help offset some of that.
We'll now take a question from Jonathon Grassi with Longbow Research.
Can you just -- why was traffic down so significantly in the quarter do you have any thoughts behind that? We really don't.
It was down I think 4%.
And yes we saw a good ticket lift.
We weren't overly concerned about it especially as we've seen comp acceleration come in to the end of the first quarter.
It was something we were watching but we had such a good fourth quarter that it wasn't something we were overly concerned about.
Okay.
And then could you talk about the performance of the various product categories in the fourth quarter? How much of that comp was driven by the gun and ammo business versus some of the other product categories? Well in retail what was really strong and this is in descending order was firearms then shooting which is encompassing -- encompasses ammunition and some other categories and then optics.
And in the Direct side of the business it was optics shooting and power sports.
The challenging categories in retail were archery obviously footwear because of Pac Boots because of warmer weather.
And men's apparel led by cold weather clothing.
In the Direct business men's apparel same story was challenging footwear and tree stands.
Okay.
Can you give us an idea of your typical revenue distribution by month in the first quarter? No.
We don't provide that.
Okay.
And then just one final question.
I guess assuming a stable interest rate environment is that $14 million in a financial service expense or financial services interest expense a reasonable run rate for 2012? Or should we look at the growing credit card portfolio requiring incremental financing that's going to drive that interest expense closer to $16 million to $17 million over the next few quarters? With all -- obviously all things being equal that should grow at the same rate as average managed receivables which will grow probably someplace through 10% and 15%.
Now there is still a limited opportunity to -- as we refinance some of these securitizations to lower the rate we're paying at which will offset that to some extent.
And by the way I would -- when you're trying to come up with the run rate I would look at it more by quarter because while this is not a huge factor there's a decrease in receivables seasonally between Q4 and Q1 just as people pay off their Christmas spending.
We did read in Chairman Bernanke's comment several weeks ago.
I mean he was very clear that the Fed intends to keep rates low.
I think he specifically said for at least 3 years and that just bodes well for funding costs in our portfolio.
We have a question from Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but just one quick housekeeping.
I know it's changing but what was the marketing fee here for this quarter? It actually wasn't up significantly year-over-year.
You'll remember a year ago in the fourth quarter we had a $10 million reversal of the FDIC charge.
And then -- so that was sort of a growth issue.
But on top of that it was only up less than $2 million in Retail and less than $1 million in Direct.
And we have a question now from Jim Duffy with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Follow up to Sean's question Tommy can I ask you to repeat that you said in the prepared remarks about the merchandise margins I didn't quite catch that about the benefit delayed until 2013.
I have a few more bars after that if you don't mind.
Well I can actually give you the color Jim.
Our initial focus on margins let me remind everybody that the reasons we had to get merchandise margins up was 200 to 300 basis points was really simple.
Our new store model did not work on the old pre-200 to 300 basis point margin rates.
We could not accelerate growth in the company.
So the genesis of 200 to 300 basis points was so that we could grow our company again.
I called out that we are now up 190 basis points in retail merchandise margins and expect more improvement this year and the year after and the year after.
So now I'm going to go back to consolidated merchandised margins.
We are up 100 through '11 we expect to be up this year.
And as we move into 2013 we expect to be fully into that 200 to 300 basis points of improvement and continue to improve year after year.
Just a message Jim.
This is Ralph.
I mean the goal on 200 to 300 the message is that in retail we will get that easy -- we were somewhere in the middle of that range pretty easily by the -- by full year 2012.
Our consolidated basis we always said the goal was going to be as of the end of 2012.
Therefore we still expect to get 200 to 300 on a consolidated basis but you probably won't see all of it until you get to the full-year run rate for 2013.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful I'm glad I asked for a clarification there.
And then the -- can I ask you to comment on where you are with overhaul of the promotional strategy.
Have you fully anniversaried promotional events like you saw in the third quarter which had impact on the margin.
Well Jim we will continuously look at -- as we move the shift from a lot of tiered offers catalog driven to more digital mediums the promotional cadence will change more of a shift than huge swings as we impacted in the third quarter of next year.
We don't have a lot of those bad guys looming ahead of us.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful too.
And then cardholder growth as mentioned in earlier question accelerated in recent quarters these smaller stores are they generating new cardholder application to the similar rate to those of the larger stores? I would tell you on a per square foot basis yes.
Obviously in aggregate the stores do less.
It is not as much in total but we're very pleased with what those stores are generating.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It commensurate with the traffic then I guess.
Yes sure.
The metric we use internally Jim.
We call it the apps-to-trans ratio which means that if you check out a 1 000 -- if you check out 1 000 people at the cash register that buy the merchandise you have to get somewhere between 10 and 20 new credit card accounts.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense and then...
So those stores those smaller stores would have a similar apps-to-trans ratio as a bigger store.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Makes sense.
Okay.
And then you mentioned your Men's business how is your Women's and Children's business tracking given some of your new merchandising efforts? Has that been growing or falling as a percent of the mix in your...
When we look back over the full year '11 women's and children's was a bright spot in the business.
And we have high hopes for that business.
We've really revamped the entire category and have high hopes for that business.
Jim I want to make one other comment about merchandise margins.
I think it was particularly encouraging to us that in the fourth quarter to hit 36.4 even with no winter weather and the great margins that we derived from Pac Boots and outerwear and men's heavy camo together with this ongoing acceleration of gun demand I just think it's a real testament to all of those dozens of blocking and tackling initiatives in the business.
And it just gives me confidence that if we get any break in the weather it's -- we can see significantly higher margins.
But we did it without any breaks.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The fourth quarter I think was a terrific quarter certainly everyone on the Cabela's team deserves congratulations for that.
Yes we were very pleased.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Pretty impressive Tommy.
Big picture question.
In general I know the answer to this directionally but I'm hoping for more commentary from you.
From a competitive standpoint what are you seeing -- is there anyone out there who's matching you with respect to the expansion that you're doing? No.
No one.
And in fact Jim in the fourth quarter we watched between Black Friday and the end of the year and even into early January a number of retailers in our space who clearly had inventory problems in outerwear and Pac Boots that were just giving merchandise away.
And because of the efforts of our merchants to really stay on top of inventories we didn't have to do that and I think those kinds of panic at the last second moves that we saw our brand damaging.
And I'm really glad we didn't have to do that.
We stayed the course and the business came in and we didn't send confusing messages to our consumers.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'll leave you with this last question.
How is it that you did that in terms of managing the inventory flows.
Is it staged deliveries.
How did you get the vendors to cooperate to that extent and -- any color on that will be helpful.
Well over the last 3 years we've worked diligently as we've said on every call and every analyst meeting we've been at on vendor collaboration.
And our belief is you start building those relationships and sharing data daily sales data with your vendors for their category over a long period of time so that you get pretty good at it and you watch trends in real-time together with having relationships with our vendors from the top of the house with me to their CEO and then Brian to their head of merchandising and all the way down through our buyers to their salespeople.
So that when we need to make adjustments in the business we're not talking to total strangers that we don't know that we're asking them to help us with inventory issues.
And it's really been the culmination of 3 years of work in vendor collaboration that put us in a position to have those kinds of discussions and our vendors helped us because I -- they were on top of the data.
They know we're growing.
And so it -- we just teed it up really nicely.
And we'll now take a question from Jim Chartier with Monness Crespi Hardt.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question for Ralph.
Where in the segment profitability did the integration charges fall? They are in the other segment which to an earlier question is one of the reasons they're up.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In the corporate overhead line? Yes.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Ralph on the last call I think you talked about high single-digit revenue growth for 2012.
Is that still what we should be thinking about? Yes.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And finally sourcing costs what do see for 2012 in the first half and second half of the year? Stable.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Then would you expect any benefit at any point in the future from sourcing? You know maybe a little but I don't think that's going to be a significant driver for us.
Only because of the lead times that we work with especially on Cabela's branded merchandise.
We could see some relief but not meaningful.
And we will take our last question from Aaron Goldstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First is a housekeeping.
What was the provision adjustment for the quarter? It was about $2 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that compares to $4.2 million in the prior quarter -- prior-year quarter.
And sort of as we've communicated we expect that as we move forward to be a less meaningful contributor to income as we move forward as it was in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then just looking at the accounting change are you going to restate -- is it going to be similar to what you did in 2005 2006 or how is it going to be any different? And then I guess can you maybe talk about why you changed in the first place and why are changing it back? Well first of all the change you're -- I assume you're talking about the bank and the company relationship? Research Division</strong> Yes correct.
The -- first of all no.
There will not be a restatement because the total economics under either methodology would have arrived to the same number.
We're basically just converting it to a fixed -- converting the economics to a fixed percentage of charge volume so that going forward if the -- there's volatility in earnings they're going to be in the bank where they belong.
But the total amount of economics transferred in 2011 were the same under either methodology.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just looking at the Direct business I mean I -- what -- I guess it looks like it's been down for a couple of years now and you've been talking about how you're trying to fix it but continues to decline and part left to the store growth but I guess what gives you confidence that you can turn that around if you have not been successful so far? Well I think the one thing that gives us the most confidence is that we are still the dominant Internet merchant in the outdoor space.
So we are working from a very solid base and that gives us comfort that we've got scale and with the right presentation and the right promotions to our customers we think we can grow the business even with the headwinds of new stores.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just clarify on the mostly comment in your press release on that $7.8 million.
What is the other part of that? Well first of all let's -- first of all I assume you're talking about the impairment [indiscernible] charge.
Research Division</strong> The impairment yes.
First of all let's -- there -- $6.5 million of it was related to the write-off of economic development bonds.
So let me just talk a second about how that works because the accounting is a little bit unusual.
When we originally built a store for example let's say the store cost $50 million and we recorded $30 million of fixed assets and $20 million of economic development bonds.
When we went in and -- and by the way the economic development bonds are the future -- the present value of future sales taxes from our store and development around our store.
We went in at the end of this year and looked at the amount of development that we assumed would happen around our stores.
And in a few cases it was just significantly less than we've modeled.
So we wrote down in total $24.3 million of the value of the bonds.
So what you'd -- the accounting then is as you go back to when the store was opened and assume that you'd increase fixed assets by $24 million and decrease the bond value by $24 million and then ran through earnings what the depreciation would have been from the date the store opened to the end of that fiscal year and that number was $6.5 million.
In addition to that there was about $900 000 of just write-downs we have of the land held for sale and then a handful of severance and some other miscellaneous things.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then maybe are you seeing anything from Amazon as under -- in this part of your category that -- on the competition front that you're worried about? I saw all the press reports that came out that they were going to get in the sporting goods space.
They've been in our categories for years.
So you can buy fishing rods and reels and cleaning kits for your guns and all kinds of stuff.
So it seemed to me more of a team sports play than an outdoor play and so no we don't -- we haven't seen anything different.
They've been playing in our space for a while.
Research Division</strong> Okay then just housekeeping what percent of Direct is kind of Internet versus catalog still? We haven't broken it out separately but well more than half of it is Internet.
I mean...
And at this time I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Gay for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you all for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you again soon.
Thank you sir.
That does conclude today's teleconference.
We do thank you all for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Incorporated First Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Chris Gay Director of Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call may include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Our record first quarter financial results validate that our growth strategy is working and working well.
For the quarter we realized strong growth in comparable store sales merchandise margin Retail and Direct segment operating margin improved performance at our Cabela's CLUB Visa program and increases in market share.
This strong performance led a record first quarter earnings and further increases in return on invested capital.
We are particularly pleased with continued strength in comparable store sales which increased 4.2% in the quarter.
This is on top of an 8.9% comp store sales increase we realized in last year's first quarter.
These strong results are mostly due to our store Outfitters providing outstanding service to our customers.
Over time we've invested significant resources in additional training and enhanced tools to ensure our Outfitters have everything they need to provide extraordinary service to our customers.
And the results speak for themselves.
For the quarter average ticket increased roughly 5%.
In addition to comparable store sales we are also very pleased with our merchandise gross margin performance in the quarter which is one of our key initiatives.
For the quarter merchandise gross margin increased 150 basis points to 34.5%.
This is the highest first quarter merchandise margin in the last 3 years.
Similar to last quarter we continued to see significant strength in the Firearms and Shooting categories which caused a material mix shift into these lower margin categories.
For the quarter this adverse mix resulted in roughly a 60-basis point headwind to merchandise margin.
As a result of hard work from our merchants and planners managing inventory levels we were able to avoid significant end of season markdowns as we transitioned from fall to spring goods during the quarter.
Additionally with the unusually warm weather we transitioned to our spring merchandise sets about 45 days early enabling us to sell new merchandise at full margin.
Now let me turn to retail profitability which is a key initiative in our retail growth strategy.
For the quarter retail profitability increased 120 basis points to 12.8% a new first quarter record.
This is the 12th consecutive quarter of retail profit contribution improvement.
Improvements in retail profitability were due to higher merchandise margin and continued improvements in labor productivity.
Last quarter we discussed in depth our retail expansion growth strategy.
Since that call we've opened 2 next-generation stores: one in March in Wichita Kansas; and the other last week in Tulalip Washington.
Both of these stores had tremendous openings with thousands of passionate Cabela's customers waiting in line to witness the ribbon cutting and shop these very exciting stores.
If you have never been to a Cabela's opening I encourage you to attend.
It is truly a unique event.
While it is still early I am delighted to report that both stores have exceeded our expectations which validates everything we said last quarter with regard to accelerating retail store expansion.
As a reminder we expect to increase retail square footage 10% this year and up to 13% in 2013.
Additionally earlier this morning we announced 2 store locations in the Denver market scheduled to open in 2013.
Given the number of Cabela's customers and the abundance of outdoor opportunities in the Denver region we are very excited to enter this market with 2 stores.
In addition to these stores for 2013 we have announced plans to open next-generation stores in Louisville Kentucky Columbus Ohio and Grandville Michigan.
Now let's look at our Direct business.
For the quarter Direct revenue declined 8.3% which was disappointing as this was down more than we had planned.
As we mentioned last quarter our Direct business got off to a very slow start in January.
Due to the unusually warm winter we saw numerous competitors cut prices dramatically as they liquidated winter inventory.
Because of our favorable inventory position coming out of the fourth quarter we did not have to clear a significant amount of excess inventory.
As a result both gross margin and operating margin improved in the quarter in our Direct segment with operating margin increasing 70 basis points to 18%.
With regard to revenue February and March each improved sequentially.
Despite the revenue performance we realized improvements in fill rates and Internet traffic.
Now let's look at operating expenses which again saw sequential improvement.
Operating expenses as a percent of revenue decreased 30 basis points to 36.3% compared to 36.6% in the year-ago quarter.
We continue to focus on getting the maximum benefit out of every operating expense dollar while making important investments in our business.
Additionally due to accelerating store growth we realized increases in preopening costs.
For the quarter preopening costs were $4 million compared to $2.8 million in the year-ago quarter.
For 2012 we expect operating expenses to increase at a slower rate than revenue growth.
Now let's look at our Cabela's CLUB Visa program which had another exceptional quarter as we continued to see strong growth in average active accounts lower funding costs and improvements in delinquencies and net charge-offs.
For the quarter average active accounts increased 7.6%.
We also realized significant improvements in net charge-offs which were just 2% in the quarter and are at the lowest levels we've seen in more than 4 years.
With the backdrop of lower funding costs strong account growth and favorable delinquencies and charge-offs we are very confident that the Cabela's CLUB Visa program will continue to have a very good year.
Now looking at guidance.
It is clear our strategies are working and our next-generation stores are achieving superior results.
Accordingly we expect to achieve strong full year 2012 results with a meaningful portion of our first quarter over-performance carrying through to our full year bottom line results.
In closing I want to personally thank all of our Cabela's Outfitters for a great start to 2012.
We appreciate all of your hard work and effort in cherishing and delighting our customers each and every day.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance at World's Foremost Bank.
Ralph? Thanks Tommy.
Following up on Tommy's remarks we're pleased with our first quarter results and the results we achieved with regard to revenue growth merchandise margin operating expenses net income and return on invested capital.
For the quarter Financial Services revenue as a percentage of average credit card loans increased 20 basis points to 11.2% compared to 11% in the year-ago quarter.
Increases in Financial Services revenue were primarily due to higher interest and fee income and lower interest expense.
For the quarter net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans improved 74 basis points to 2.0% compared to 2.74% in the first quarter last year.
Additionally we continued to see improvements in delinquencies.
Greater than 30-day delinquencies were just 0.8% as compared to 0.95% a year ago.
Greater than 60-day delinquencies were 0.49% as compared to 0.59% a year ago and greater than 90-day delinquencies were 0.26% as compared to 0.30% a year ago.
For the quarter the license fee the WFB pays the Merchandising business actually decreased $7.7 million from the first quarter a year ago.
By channel it was down $4.3 million in our Direct segment and $3.4 million less in our Retail segment.
So the strong profitability that we saw in both of our Retail and Direct segments were there despite having less marketing fees than what we had a year ago.
As a result of the continuation of favorable delinquency and charge-off trends we reduced our allowance for loan losses by $6.3 million in the quarter.
This compares to an $8.1 million reduction in first quarter last year.
We do not expect to have material reductions in our allowance for loan losses for the remainder of 2012.
Now let me highlight WFB's future funding plans.
In March we completed a $425-million 5-year securitization most of which refinanced notes that matured in the first quarter.
The securitization transaction included the issuance of $275 million of notes which accrued interest at a fixed rate of 1.63% and $150 million of notes which accrued interest at a floating rate equal to 1-month LIBOR plus 53 basis points.
Our next term securitization doesn't mature until January of 2015.
Additionally in the first quarter we renewed our $225 million variable funding facility with Wells Fargo.
The commitment is for 3 years and the early renewal will allow us to lather the maturities of our variable funding facilities to have only one come due in any given year.
Looking forward we plan to fund future growth with the combination of future term securitizations and by remaining active in the certificate of deposit market.
From an inventory standpoint inventory decreased 4% or $23 million year-over-year to $539 million.
We're very comfortable with current inventory levels and believe we are well positioned for the remainder of 2012.
We ended the quarter with total debt at the parent company of $340 million.
Recall that our series 2008 A Senior Notes have annual principal payments of roughly $8.1 million beginning in January 2012 until final maturity in 2018.
Accordingly in January we made our first required principal payment of $8.1 million with one of the lowest lease adjusted debt-to-total-capital ratios in the retail industry.
We remain very comfortable with our debt levels.
Last quarter we announced that the Cabela's Board of Directors improved the share repurchase program designed to offset shareholder dilution resulting from the granting of equity-based compensation awards.
We did not purchase any shares in the first quarter.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
We're very pleased with our record financial results for the first quarter and the significant improvements we continue to make in our areas of strategic focus.
With that operator let's open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Reed Anderson with Northland Securities.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First Tommy on comps.
You gave a little bit of detail in the release.
And I was just curious any more -- any broader thoughts on categories et cetera? Or should we just infer that that was kind of the driving core with firearms and fishing.
And then secondly just thoughts early on here.
The trend has certainly been better than most people had expected.
Are we continuing to see that here in the second quarter? Yes.
Reed we were very pleased in our Retail business with the tenor of business in the first quarter.
Guns and ammo were certainly strong but fishing also got off to a good start.
So from a comp standpoint we were very pleased that we drove the business.
We would expect April comps to be up low-single digits so a good start to the second quarter as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good.
The -- in terms of your comments about -- in talking about what's driving comps is Outfitters and so forth.
I wonder if you might expand on that a little bit and tie into that comment the notion that we're getting even a lot of sounds like a lot of leverage at the retail labor level.
Well we are getting leverage.
But concurrently as we've talked we've made significant investments in training for our folks not just in Retail but also our call center Outfitters.
And that has resulted -- we're working hard on add-on sales and we've launched the concierge program at our gun counters so that we're not just walking this relatively low margin sale out the door.
And that we have people there to assist in the add-on sale of a scope and a gun case and a sling and whatever else they need.
So we're working really hard in leveraging our labor not to do tasks but to do selling.
Reed the other area of the company where we've really seen a lot of leverage just on the pure expense leverage side has been on our distribution centers.
Those guys have just done a really good job of managing their expenses and driving them down as a percent of sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
A couple of others.
On the Direct one you commented on Direct Tommy.
You talked about -- or you made reference to just competitive liquidation et cetera discounting and so you didn't have that excess inventory to do that.
Was that more of a factor in Direct versus Retail? I was -- just wanted to be clear on that.
Yes.
Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then...
And then Reed it was encouraging.
When February and March unfolded we saw significant sequential improvement which has continued into April.
We would expect April Direct to be down very low-single digits.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay that's helpful.
And then Ralph on the bank and the cards card growth was nice.
I mean it was a good 7.5%.
But I'm still thinking that number is going to rise this year given your retail growth.
Do you still believe that? I mean is that -- do you think that number is going to tick up beyond what we saw in the first quarter or...
Yes I think there's going to continue to be upward pressure on card growth.
Sort of similarly Reed you remember when we slowed down store growth 2 or 3 years ago everybody thought that would -- that card growth would fall off the cliff but it didn't.
I mean because our old stores are so productive.
But there's no question.
If you would have seen the people lined up for credit cards in Tulalip and Wichita there will be upward pressure on that number.
Now it's hundreds of basis points not -- or maybe 800 basis points.
It's not several hundred basis points.
Reed another comment on comps.
I think what was encouraging to us -- one of the things we don't talk a lot about on calls or at analyst meetings is the significant competitive strength we have in data analytics.
And in the first quarter we saw gas prices rise 10% on top of a 27% increase last year.
And what we noticed was that we couldn't draw any correlation to drive times to our stores which we monitor very carefully.
So we couldn't link any changes in drive times to gas prices.
So it would not appear that gas prices had a meaningful effect on our business when we posted really nice up comps together with transactions only down 1% which is again a sequential improvement from what we had been seeing.
Research Division</strong> That's terrific detail.
It's very helpful in this environment.
I've one last question Ralph on the bank's side.
I think we sometimes get too focused on the granularity in the way you report that.
But if you just look at kind of the net Financial Services revenue as a percent of the total that 11.2% number is it -- does it make sense if we look year-over-year that you should be up this year versus last year? Like you were up 20 bps in the first quarter.
Is that the way to look at that? Or is it because you had the onetime or the benefit from provision that it wouldn't necessarily be up? Just looking at that bottom number.
Well I would not expect a meaningful improvement in that as a percentage.
As I've sort of communicated before this business is on a per account basis is pretty good.
And you touched on it on your first question Reed where we should expect the improvement in that business is continued account growth and even to some extent accelerating account growth.
One other thing on that and I highlighted this in my comments Reed that just one other important thing with respect to the bank I mean everyone has always got so infatuated with this marketing fee that we pay.
It was actually down $7.7 million year-over-year and $3.4 million of that was in Retail.
So the $10 million improvement that we saw in retail profitability in the quarter was despite getting $3.4 million less from the bank.
So I just don't want to read -- anybody to read the press release and think all the improvements related to the bank is half of that improvement you see in the Financial Services profitability is attributable to the less marketing fees than they were a year ago.
And we'll go next to Rick Nelson with Stephens and Company.
Research Division</strong> This is Joe Edelstein for Rick.
First question relates to the new stores the Wichita stores the Tulalip store in Washington.
What kind of success have you seen so far? And do you think that these could actually be a $40-plus-type million revenue generators? Well both grand openings were borderline frightening from the number of people that were lined up at the front door.
Sufficient so that in Tulalip rather than give a long speech I just said "You probably want me to just shut up and open the door." And there was a round of applause from 7 000 or 8 000 people.
So -- and we witnessed the same thing in Wichita.
Thousands of people at the front door.
The traffic kept coming for days and days.
And a couple of you I think on the phone were probably at Tulalip and it's really something to see it.
So we couldn't be more pleased now 3 weeks later in Wichita and 10 days after a week -- or 10 days after Tulalip just phenomenal openings.
To kind of help you quantify that.
I mean you asked your question in a number but to help you quantify it I mean those stores should do north.
Our chain-wide average is called $325 a foot of revenue.
Those should do $400-plus per foot.
Now Wichita is only an 80 000 square foot store so that'll be $32 million.
Getting that store to $40 million feels like a stretch.
Now we're at 100 000 square feet in Washington so $40 million feels pretty easy there.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Just a couple of other questions on margins.
In the release you mentioned that merchandise margins improved in 10 out of the 13 subcategories.
I'm just trying to get a sense of what the other 3 and why you didn't see a lift there.
I don't remember what those 3 were right off the top of my head.
But our point was that we just saw broad-based improvements in margins.
And it's been the result of what we've talked about for 3 years an increased focus on vendor collaboration better in-season management and preseason planning and just better execution across the enterprise.
And it also helped us that the way we've managed inventory in the last couple of years definitely helped us by not having an abundance of end of year seasonal closeout merchandise that would have had a negative impact on margin.
Most of the categories that are down are apparel-weighted categories but I'll tell you it's just nothing to get excited about.
One of the 3 is down 14 basis points.
So it's just not a meaningful amount of impact on the total.
The point was it's across all sorts of categories.
And in spite of the headwind of 60 basis points in guns and ammunition which remain very strong as you can well imagine.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's great color.
Maybe just one other question then on margin opportunity.
At the Analyst Day I believe you had talked about a new price optimization tool that would go in later this year.
Are you still on track for that? And what kind of progress has been made in determining that SKU-level-type profitabilities? Those 2 initiatives are still in place and on track and we would expect to reap benefit as we go into next year as I think Brian said at the analyst meeting.
So we continue to add tool sets to provide continuous improvement so that we can improve every aspect of the business including merchandise margin over time.
Research Division</strong> Can you quantify any opportunity at this point? Or you're still just targeting the 200 to 300 basis point improvement in merchandise margins I guess adjusting for the firearms mix? Absolutely.
And we'll go next to Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I just -- my first question is on the Retail side of the business.
Given the transition to spring 45 days early is there any way to measure? Or do you think that we should be aware of any potential pull forward from the second quarter and the first? I don't think so Matt.
And I would make one point.
The decision to pull forward was a conscious basically unplanned decision.
When we saw winter not coming back and when weather forecasts didn't indicate that it would our merchants and planners proactively said "Well let's turn lemons into lemonade if we're not going to have winter persist through March." And so we aggressively pulled our roles early.
And what we saw was great reaction to spring merchandise.
Women's apparel fishing and we've been pleased with how that has continued.
So I don't think there was a great deal of pull forward especially when you look at a category like fishing which was so weak all the way through the second quarter of last year.
And fishing has just been doing very very well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then do you ever give any quantification around the firearms and ammunition category in terms of how much that was up in the quarter? I'm trying to gauge how much of the comp was driven by that category.
No we don't give individual category components to the comp.
But -- and remember we don't sell guns on the Internet.
So guns only affect the Retail channel and they were definitely a help.
It was our strongest category in Retail.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the Direct business your operating income was only down about 5% despite revenue being down 8% and obviously less in the contribution from finance.
So just sort of wondering how you accomplish that on the cost side of the Direct business? The largest thing was just having the less Direct marketing costs out of the mill is a big piece of it.
And gross margin was up big as you'd expect.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is that total circulation or also more on the SIRC side or more in the page count side or a little bit of both? Actually neither.
It's been better negotiating the pricing.
SIRC was only down 3% in the quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly you announced 2 stores in Colorado this morning that are about 30 miles from each other and -- which I think is a little closer than you typically would locate stores.
So just wondering if you can talk about the decision to put these stores so close to each other and why not make one of them an Outpost store? Well that's a great question.
We feel that it's a very important data point for us to have to understand the impact of going to a large metropolitan market like Denver with more than just one store.
And I would submit to you that the store in South Denver is about 2 miles south of Park Meadows for those of you that know it.
So that store's going to pick up Northern Colorado Springs business and also South Denver business.
Thornton while it's only 30 35 miles north we'll be more of a Northern Colorado store that will pull from -- Fort Collins probably Cheyenne Longmont and Loveland.
So you should interpret that we are sufficiently confident in how our next-gen stores are functioning and launching that we felt comfortable.
Let's see what happens in 2 stores in 1 market opening on the same day.
And we think when we look at traffic patterns it competitively helps us a lot vis-à-vis where competition is located.
And we'll go next to David Magee with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess related to the last question.
Aren't your stores -- looking at the store in Dallas that's pretty close to another store as well that does -- that doesn't have any cannibalization? Yes we do.
And that actually gave us increased confidence as we went into Denver.
There were a couple of data points.
That was the most meaningful one was the Allen Texas and Fort Worth.
We just didn't see a meaningful change in sales in Fort Worth when we opened Allen at all.
I'll tell you based upon the 1 or 2 weeks since we opened Tulalip we have seen sort of similar performance at our Lacey store.
So as we go with these smaller stores we've just had increased confidence that we can put more in one market which sort of led us to the decision we did in Denver.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned that the sale per foot differential being very favorable.
Just sort of looking at the trends with mix and what you pay in the rent and the credit cards and things like that are you feeling sort of equally good about the profit per store that you'll generate? Yes.
And in fact David we don't talk a lot about Canada on the calls.
But our store in Edmonton is performing at very very high levels also in line with what we saw at Wichita and Tulalip and Grand Junction and Billings.
So the store in Edmonton just continues to roll.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly with regards to the Direct business it sounds like to me that was sort of a onetime deal in January.
Given the sort of you have your initiatives to try to generate better top line there but at the same time you do cannibalize by opening stores what's sort of a reasonable expectation of the balance of the year for the Direct? Is this low-single digits? Is that what we should factor in? Yes I would think so.
Low- to mid-single digits.
We've said over the last couple of calls that the Direct business has been struggling for about 5 years.
So we're not going to fix it in 6 months.
But I think we're confident that the things that we're working on which is improvements in site navigation better digital tools a more robust mobile offering.
I think we've got 1 600 000 or 1 700 000 friends on Facebook so we're using social media a lot more aggressively.
We would hope to see sequential improvement over the next couple of years in the Direct business.
And we'll go next to Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jared Madlin dialing in for Sean this morning.
I guess just digging a little bit further into the weather here.
With the warm weather in categories specifically like fishing or maybe camping I know you mentioned you don't see pull forward being an issue.
But so -- does the warm weather just lift the whole category? Or should we expect some category-specific areas to be a little bit impacted by the warm weather? Well I mean warm weather definitely impacts and dry warm weather impacts rainwear negatively.
But in Retail we would see -- in Direct we see fishing improved and power sports better as people can get out in the lakes and recreate.
So I think it's pretty much common sense the categories you would think would be affected by warm weather are and the negative ones they're impacted as well.
But on balance we can't control the weather.
We just have to do the best and manage around it which I think we did in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just quickly with -- any timing shift with marketing events in the quarter for Q2 and Q3? Any shift there? No.
Not significant.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you expect any leverage on marketing expense going forward this year? Well we certainly had some in the first quarter.
And yes I would expect some to continue.
I'd also expect our absolute level of marketing spend increase as we go throughout the year particularly in our Direct business.
But we would expect to leverage total expenses over the year.
And we'll go next to Aaron Goldstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First can you really talk about what's driving the ticket growth? Yes.
We're -- I mean we're working on significant initiatives in add-on sales.
If you had been at our Tulalip opening you would've seen more clip strips throughout the store by orders of magnitude to try and encourage customers to add to cart.
And that's helping us a lot.
And I think we've really just scratched the surface there.
I'll give you an example because you live in the Northeast Aaron.
There is an explosion in the bug populations in the Northeast.
So we are aggressively in our stores in the Northeast having clipper strips everywhere for tick repellants and mosquito repellants.
And those are -- that's just one example of many where we're trying to encourage the customer I think successfully to add to cart in addition to the concierge program at the firearms counter because we sell a lot of guns every year.
And if we can just get every customer to add a scope or a gun case or a sling or mounts or bases it's a -- or a cleaning kit it significantly impacts ticket.
Research Division</strong> So this quarter the ticket growth was more basket driven not so much price? Yes I would say that's fair.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then going back to the question on the Direct segment fixed cost.
How sustainable is the cut margin fees? I guess what I'm trying to ask is when is there going to be more significant leverage potentially if Direct revenues continue to decline at these rates? Well I'm not sure I appreciate your question.
But most -- at least over time virtually all of the cost in Direct business are variable.
The biggest component in the expense space is catalog and Direct marketing costs.
I mean the rest of it isn't meaningful.
Now having said that we're not content with the decline that was seen in the Direct business and we'd as Tommy said love to get that either to a smaller growth or a small gain.
But over long periods of time this -- Direct marketing costs run about 15% of sales and that's on total SG&amp;A of about 20% or 22%.
So -- and the rest of them -- a big piece of the rest is call centers which are also variable.
So there's not a real fixed cost base in the Direct business.
And we don't view just to be clear a down 8% as any kind of success measure.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I was just saying because margins continue to be quite strong in that category.
I'm just seeing if there's potential.
Switching over...
We don't have any drain in the Direct business from the boom in gun sales.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then switching over to guns and ammo extremely very strong for you.
How are the shortages sequentially on the supply side? I know you're getting better allocations but are those still pretty constrained? Supply is tight but we're getting enough to keep us in stock and keep us doing business.
After the boom in 2008 when I got here in '09 we diversified our supply base pretty significantly on a global basis in ammunition to make sure that we were covered from a supply side much better than we had been when the market took off in '08.
And so that together with the strength of our balance sheet and if necessary paying very rapidly for goods which we've not had to do yet I think puts us in a very good position.
We are also a preferred vendor on both the long gun side and the hand gun side and would expect good deliveries there.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly on the bank side on the charge-off provisions.
You talked about historical rates being in the 2% to 2.5%.
When you're looking at your provisions is that what would currently -- if you currently unwound at the current rate that's what the charge-offs you would need? Or is it is -- or is there a buffer in there for kind of what the average historical rate that you think it's going to be? Well I'm not sure I understand your question.
When we calculate the allowance we use the existing delinquencies and that's in correlation to a charge-off level that we expect to see.
So as we go forward what's going to happen with the allowance we've -- over the last 2 or 3 years we've had the benefit of dramatically lower charge-offs and delinquencies.
Sometime very soon that's going to start to get mitigated because of growth in the portfolio.
So we're going to need a bigger allowance just because the portfolio is growing.
And at least I feel like -- as I sit here today I feel like we're near -- pretty close to that starting to cross.
In other words the growth of the portfolio is going to require a bigger and bigger allowance which will offset any benefit we get from continued improvements in the macro credit environment.
Research Division</strong> And do you think structurally charge-off rates are just lower because you're signing up better quality customers so that historical rate...
No not necessarily.
I think what's happening is we're just -- we've worked all of the unemployed and worked out on the portfolio.
We're getting very low rates now.
Just accelerating growth does help with the charge-offs as a percent because new accounts generally don't go bad.
So you could see a further decline in the charge-off rate.
But I would view anything below 2% as not sustainable.
And we'll go next to Jonathon Grassi with Longbow Research.
Why do you guys think the Direct business was so significantly impacted because of the winter-related clearance but the Retail was not? Or -- I mean was the Retail impacted in January and then improved significantly in March -- in February and March? I guess maybe can you give us an idea what Retail's comps were over the quarter by month? Well we don't give comps by quarter.
But let me go to the Direct issue.
If you go back a year ago we would have had to clear significant amounts of end of season winter merchandise in the month of January.
And when we came in this year as we told you guys on the year-end call inventories were down.
We were in very good shape because of our vendor collaboration initiatives.
So here we come into January and we literally just didn't have all of that merchandise to sell.
So it created a pretty significant grow over problem.
And luckily margin lift was there.
It's a tough result in January from a sales standpoint but it certainly was the result of good management of inventories and good vendor collaboration.
So put that against the macro environment where virtually all of our competitors are drastically reducing prices with free shipping 40% off everything you can imagine to clear inventories that they didn't clear at year end.
So that was really the story.
And once we got through the January challenge we saw pretty significant sequential improvements as we got into February March which carried into April.
And on the Retail side to your point we've got guns that are just helping an awful lot in the month of January year-over-year strength.
Okay.
All right.
And then I think you said your expected comps in April look like they're expecting them at low-single digits.
Can you give us an idea of what you were doing at this time last year and how that trended throughout the quarter? No.
We don't give quarterly guidance -- I mean monthly guidance on comps.
I will tell you that we had a very large cash card promotion last year in firearms in the month of April that involved a significant discount that we didn't repeat this year.
I will remind you though for the quarter in the first quarter a year ago we were up against 8.9%.
So the 4.2% growth on top of that is really good.
In the second quarter we were up 4.4% a year ago.
Those were -- our 2 best quarters last year were the first 2 quarters.
Okay.
So you said you discontinued the cash card that you had last year but you're still coming up positively it sounds against that and would also probably get a tailwind on the merchandise margin? Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
And then can you break out the merchandise margin improvement in Retail versus Direct? Yes I can.
It was pretty even between both of them.
It was up a little bit higher in Retail than it was in Direct.
Okay.
And then just finally you said you were at the largest charge-off rates in 3 years.
What is the lowest charge-off rate you've seen over the history of WFB? We have seen them before get below 2% but not for a sustainable period of time.
I think if you look at -- if you go clear back to '07 I've got the quarterly charge-off date in front of me clear back to '07.
In Q1 of '07 we were at 1.88%; and in Q2 of '07 we were at 1.65%.
So other than that they've always been above 2%.
And we'll go next to Lee Giordano with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the initiatives to improve the Women's and Children's business? Just wondering how that's progressing.
And what the long-term opportunity do you see for that business? Yes.
Leadership in our Women's and Children's business has done with their teams just a terrific job.
I think if you go in our stores that's the best place just to see it.
It's performance gear good use of color good use of technology that carries all the way into footwear.
The assortment is just flat better looking than it's been.
And we're seeing customers respond to it.
In fact my wife actually dinged our family pocketbook last weekend at our Sidney store in the women's category.
And her comment to me was "Wow this really looks like great merchandise." And we're hearing that all over the chain.
But it's just good execution a good vision.
I think we're very excited about fall goods.
We're launching a new line that we're calling OutfitHer which is camouflage clothing designed for women by women to women's fit sizes instead of asking our female customers to buy smaller sizes that are designed for teenage boys.
So we're making a concerted effort in that category.
And I think it's going to -- it is paying off for us now.
And I think it will continue to.
And we'll go next to Jim Duffy with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm so excited about the Denver stores.
Jim I figured you'd know exactly where those sites are.
They're pretty interesting sites for us.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I do.
And the traffic patterns makes a big difference that they're in one place versus the other.
Yes so it's easy from some parts of the city to get to one of the locations versus the other.
Right which is why we are where we are.
That's why we had 2.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No it makes sense to me.
So a couple of questions.
With your data analysis competency do you have an updated assessment of cannibalization to the Direct business that you're seeing from new stores? Historically you'd said that it would fall off initially and then come back even stronger.
Is that still what you're seeing? Or do you think that increased pace of store expansion is indeed cutting into the Direct business? Now I -- well first of all what we said was is that you lose 5% to 10% of the Direct business in that market and then it sort of resumes a growth rate that is at historical levels which I think at the time we made the statement the entire Direct business was still growing.
What we've still seen is a take out in the Direct business of somewhere between $2 million and $4 million in a given market.
I think that's still a reasonable number.
Jim one other comment I would make.
One of the weakest parts of the United States in our Direct business is in the Southeast where we don't have any stores.
And it's going to be interesting as we deploy stores in the Southeast whether that actually lifts our Direct business in the Southeast surely because we have more roadside visibility.
We've become more top of mind and we're pretty excited about the potential Direct opportunities in the next 3 years in the Southeast which is it is the weakest part of the country for us.
That and California where we also don't have any stores.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Makes sense I guess.
The heightened brand awareness would drive more people to the website.
Absolutely.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Switching gears a bit to the Financial Services business.
Ralph in '07 when charge-offs were in the low remind me was that a growth period for the cardholder base? It was yes because we still we're anniversary-ing a bunch of stores we opened in '06.
So it was which is to my points earlier and you know this Jim growth has a short-term favorable impact on charge-offs.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
I apologize for the additional questions on provisions here.
But I'm just trying to make sure I have my arms around it.
So the gross charge-offs were running about 2.4% net charge-offs at 2%.
As we look across the balance of the year Ralph can the provisions continue to be down year-to-year in the remaining quarters? Or should it more closely approximate that net charge-off number? Well I said in my comments we don't expect a significant reduction in the I want to make sure I'm talking about the same thing in the balance sheet allowance.
So yes I would expect charge-offs in the provision to be more closely aligned in the last 3 quarters of the year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you said you don't expect a significant reduction in the provision.
Is that from 1Q that you mean or on a year-to-year basis? Well what I -- what I'm -- whatever the -- on the balance sheet the reserve for future bad debts at the end of the first quarter is sure I'm reading this right $67.1 million.
I don't expect that number to significantly decrease as we move throughout the year.
So what goes through the P&amp;L for charge-offs will be very close to what the provision is.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I got you.
Okay.
And I'm with you.
And then back to the merchandise side of the business.
ASP drivers there I assume firearms is helping.
Are you seeing a return to growth in some of the higher ticket categories like boats and ATVs and so forth? Yes.
We saw a really nice growth in Retail and power sports in the quarter.
We launched a new line Jim of Coleman-branded ATVs.
And consumer reaction was very very strong.
So it's sort of -- it's intuitive that with better weather and every lake and river in the Midwest not 4 miles over their banks that people are getting out and boating and using their ATVs we've had a good turkey season first good turkey season in 3 or 4 years.
And a lot of ATV uses to that hunting application.
And we'll go next to Seth Sigman with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can you discuss the progress that you're making and you made over the last couple of quarters in growing your payables relative to your inventory? And is there anything changing with your vendors? Are you seeing more benefits now as you're reaccelerating growth? And how do you think about that going forward? Well a few years 1 or 2 years ago we made some significant change in payment terms to really try to manage our cash flow position better.
But I would tell you we've largely anniversary-ed those.
A lot of that just has to do with better managing inventory and some of the processes were in place.
We're still getting some lift from that.
I think what we want to do in a period of perhaps some competitive uncertainty out there we want to be a place where our vendor base is absolutely comfortable.
If they sell us merchandise they're going to get paid.
And that has served us very well over the last 3 years not just in categories where inventories are tight like ammunition but across the enterprise.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Tommy you mentioned before you're making progress driving attachments in the store? Is there any way to quantify maybe some of the attachment rates that you're getting from some of these in-store initiatives and maybe further opportunities to drive that across the store? Well I wouldn't quantify them specifically other than to say I think it's a significant opportunity for us to continue to drive average ticket.
And believe me we're looking at every possible way to do that.
And we'll go next to Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones and sorry if I missed this.
Can you just comment on your online mix in the Direct versus catalogs and kind of any change that we saw here that -- this quarter? Mix of product or mix by channel? Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess sales mix of online versus catalog.
Well Mark I'll -- I mean the trend is unchanged which is online continues to grow.
I will also tell you as what you might call the call center a catalog business gets smaller I mean those lines start to really blur between what in it.
And I know this will sound strange to you but what's an Internet order and what's a call center order? But as a general trend digital is up call center is down.
And that's an unchanged trend.
Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Did one seem to get impacted more from discounting by peers than other this quarter? Well I mean the calls -- the historic whatever you call them catalog/call center customer is a better customer that's less price-sensitive.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's fair.
And secondly just looking at kind of the buildout schedule going forward here through the remainder of 2012.
Can you give any more insight on kind of timing of openings and if stores are on schedule at this point? Yes absolutely.
Here's what it looks like.
We opened Wichita in March Tulalip in April Saskatoon in May I think it's actually May 10 and it's absolutely on track.
Rogers Arkansas and Charleston West Virginia in August on schedule on track.
And then we opened Yakima Union Gap which is our first Outpost store.
And the team told us the other day we're 163 days from opening.
It might be 162 by now.
And it opens in October and we're on track and on schedule there.
Then as we go into 2013 we have the relocation of our Winnipeg store in Manitoba moving to a 25 000 square foot larger store.
And then we will open Columbus Ohio Grandview which is Grand Rapids Michigan and Louisville Kentucky in the spring.
And they're on track.
And then we hope to have another store in 2013 plus the 2 Denver stores in the fall of '13.
So right now everything is on track.
And we'll go next to Stan Westhoff [ph] with [indiscernible] and Company.
I just wanted to follow up on the Financial Services segment.
If I understand it correctly about half of the improvement in operating income was from the marketing fee reduction as well as a release in the loan allowance is that correct? Well actually the first part of your statement is right.
About half of the improvement is related -- by the way assuming we're talking about year-over-year improvement in the first quarter about half of the improvement -- let's say the improvement was call it $15 million from $14 million to $25 million.
$7.7 million of that is due to lower marketing fees paid to the Merchandising business.
Now actually the reserve release had no impact -- or very little impact.
It was actually a little bit of a drag because in the first quarter a year ago that was $8.1 million and it fell then $6.3 million.
So the reserve release had very little to do with the year-over-year change in the profitability of either the Financial Services business or the company as a whole.
And in fact it was a little bit of a drag.
Okay.
So what made up the other half then? With just continued improvements and -- I mean things we've been talking about for quarters which is improvements in the charge-offs and lower borrowing costs.
Okay.
Speaking of Chris late last year and he was mentioning that you kind of run the business on like a return on asset basis and like anything else was just kind of gets flowed back into the Merchandising business? Well that's true except we're starting the first of this year we converted that and those marketing fees are just a fixed I believe 70 basis points on charge volume.
So you'll start to see more volume -- effective the first of '12 you'll start to see more volatility in that business so...
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I will turn the conference back to Mr.
Chris Gay for any additional or closing remarks.
It's Tommy.
I'll actually close this out today.
Just one note before we leave.
Our Annual Meeting is on June 6 here in Sidney.
We would hope that a number of you would come.
We've planned quite a big event.
We have a lot of vendor participation and a lot of exciting events and we would hope you would come and hear our recap of 2011 and our future vision for the company.
And with that we thank you for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you again soon.
Thanks.
That does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day everyone thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Inc.
Second Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would like to remind everyone that this call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Chris Gay Director Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call may include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks Chris and good morning everyone.
Normally great news like today takes my breath away.
Today it seems like great news and the worst cough and cold I've had in 5 years is doing the trick.
So if during the script or during the call I sound like I'm dying I'm actually not but bear with me.
Well on with the script.
Our record second quarter financial results validate that our growth strategy is working well.
For the quarter we realized strong growth in comp store sales improved revenue performance in our Direct business higher merchandise and operating margins strong revenue and profit growth in our Cabela's CLUB Visa program and increases in market share.
This strong performance led to record second quarter earnings and further increases in return on invested capital.
We are particularly pleased with continued strength in comp store sales which increased 4.7% in the quarter.
The increase in comp store sales was broad-based as sales increased in 25 of our 30 comp stores and in 12 of 13 merchandising subcategories.
For the quarter average ticket increased 4% and we are particularly pleased that transactions increased for the first time in 5 quarters.
In addition to strong comp store sales we also realized very strong performance from our new stores.
For the quarter sales per foot in the 6 new stores not in the comp base was meaningfully higher than our legacy store base.
This is extremely encouraging as we continue to accelerate retail store expansion.
For the quarter merchandise gross margin increased 70 basis points to 37.4%.
This is the highest second quarter merchandise margin in more than 6 years.
Similar to last quarter we continue to see significant strength in the firearms and shooting categories which caused a material mix shift into these lower margin categories.
For the quarter these adverse mix resulted in roughly 24 basis point headwind to merchandise margin.
Now let me turn to retail profitability which is a key initiative in our retail growth strategy.
For the quarter retail profitability increased 230 basis points to 18.5% a new second quarter record.
This is the 13th consecutive quarter of retail profit improvement.
Improvements in retail profitability were due mostly to higher merchandise margin and continued improvements in labor productivity.
Since our last call we opened one next-generation store in Saskatoon Saskatchewan Canada in May.
The opening was a huge success with literally thousands of people waiting to shop the store on grand opening day.
All 3 of our Canadian stores continue to perform very well and Canada is proving to be a great market for Cabela's.
We have strong brand recognition significant participation in outdoor activities and because of the climate a very favorable merchandise mix.
In short we couldn't be more pleased with the success we are seeing in Canada and we look forward to further accelerating our growth there.
For the remainder of 2012 we plan to open next-generation stores in Rogers Arkansas and Charleston West Virginia.
And we will open our first 40 000-square-foot outpost store in Union Gap Washington in October.
Looking forward to 2013 we expect to open 6 domestic next-generation stores and 2 outpost stores.
Additionally we will be relocating our existing 45 000-square-foot Winnipeg store to a more desirable location and increasing its size to 70 000 square feet.
We have announced all of our domestic next-generation store locations for 2013.
And just this morning announced the location of our first 2013 outpost store location in Saginaw Michigan.
Furthermore we're beginning to fill in on our store expansion plans for 2014.
This morning we announced the location of our first 2014 next-generation store in Anchorage Alaska.
We've wanted to build a store in Alaska for a very long time.
Alaska has a very rich outdoor heritage and we have a lot of tremendous customers in Alaska.
These great customers rely on us for their outdoor recreation needs as well as their everyday living.
We are very excited about the opportunity Alaska represents and further serving our great customers.
Now let's look at our Direct business.
For the quarter Direct revenue declined just 7/10 of 1% which is a huge improvement from the first quarter.
During the quarter we realized improvements in Internet traffic growth in multichannel customers and very early progress in our print-to-digital transformation.
Late last year we began to develop a multiyear approach to reverse the 4-year downtrend in our Direct segment and transform our 51-year-old legacy catalog business into an Omni-Channel enterprise supporting transformation for digital e-commerce and mobile while optimizing the customer experience with our growing retail footprint.
We're in the very early stages of this effort.
Near-term efforts will focus on print-to-digital transformation and testing targeted shipping offers.
Later this year we'll test new mobile and digital efforts with a focus on the holiday season.
We are also pleased with our initial results but there is a lot of work still to be done.
While we clearly expect ongoing annual improvements this will be a multiyear effort and you can expect to hear more about these initiatives over the next 9 to 18 months.
Now let's look at operating expenses which again saw sequential and year-over-year improvement.
Operating expenses as a percent of revenue decreased 170 basis points to 36.5% compared to 38.2% in the year ago quarter.
This is the third consecutive quarter of operating expense leverage.
We continue to focus on getting the maximum benefit out of every operating expense dollar while making important investments in our business.
For 2012 we continue to expect operating expenses to increase at a slower rate than revenue growth.
Now let's look at our Cabela's CLUB Visa program which had another exceptional quarter as we continue to see strong growth in average active accounts lower funding costs and improvements in delinquencies and net charge-offs.
For the quarter average active accounts increased 7.9%.
We also realized significant improvements in net charge-offs which were just 1.86% and are at the lowest levels we've seen in 5 years.
With the backdrop of lower funding costs strong account growth and favorable delinquencies in charge-offs we are very confident that the Cabela's CLUB Visa program will continue to have a very good year.
Now looking at guidance.
It is clear our strategies are working and our next-generation stores are achieving superior results.
Accordingly we expect our full year 2012 earnings per share to exceed current estimates by 1% to 3%.
In closing I want to personally thank all of our Cabela's Outfitters for a great first half of the year.
We appreciate all your hard work and effort in cherishing and delighting our customers each and every day.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things the performance of our Cabela's CLUB Visa program.
Ralph? Thanks Tommy.
Following up on Tommy's remarks we are very pleased with our second quarter performance and the results we achieved with regard to revenue growth merchandise margin operating expenses net income and return on invested capital.
For the quarter Financial Services revenue increased 12.8% to $79.3 million.
The increases in Financial Services revenue were primarily due to higher interest and fee income and lower interest expense.
For the quarter net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans improved 48 basis points to 1.86% compared to 2.34% in the second quarter last year.
Additionally we continue to see improvements in delinquencies.
Greater than 30-day delinquencies were just 0.73% as compared to 0.92% a year ago.
Greater than 60-day delinquencies were 0.43% as compared to 0.57% a year ago.
And greater than 90-day delinquencies were 0.23% as compared to 0.28% a year ago.
Delinquencies and charge-off trends continue to be favorable.
For the quarter there was no change in allowance for loan losses.
This compares to a $5 million reduction in the second quarter a year ago.
We do not expect to have material reductions and allowance for loan losses for the remainder of 2012.
Now let me highlight the future funding plans of our Cabela's CLUB Visa program.
In June we completed a $425 million 5-year securitization most of which will be used upon future growth.
The securitization transaction included the issuance of $300 million of notes which accrue interest at a fixed rate of 1.45% and $125 million of notes which accrue interest at a floating rate equal to 1 month LIBOR plus 48 basis points.
Our next term securitization doesn't mature until January of 2015 and we do not expect to complete another securitization this year.
From an inventory standpoint inventory decreased 4% or $23 million year-over-year to $577 million.
For the quarter inventory turns improved slightly to 2.9x on the trailing 4-quarter basis.
As we move into 2013 we may need to make additional inventory investments in order to support retail growth and grow our Direct business.
As a result we only expect small inventory turn improvement from these levels.
Accounts payable increased $75 million year-over-year roughly $55 million of this is a Cabela's CLUB Visa payable to our processer FDR.
This is merely a timing difference related to quarter end.
Gift instruments and credit card reward points increased nearly 13% or $25 million year-over-year to $221 million.
$20 million of the increase was due to additional credit card club rewards.
This cash flow is an often overlook benefit as the Cabela's CLUB Visa program pays for the points when earned rather than when redeemed and is a significant source of cash for our merchandising business.
We ended the quarter with total debt at the parent company of $340 million.
With one of the lowest lease adjusted debt-to-total-capital ratios in the retail industry we remain very comfortable with our debt levels.
Our next required principal payment of approximately $8 million is due in January of 2013.
For the first 6 month of the year cash flow from operations was $70 million and capital expenditures were $86 million.
With our accelerating store growth plans we expect full year 2012 capital expenditures to be between $175 million and $200 million.
With cash flow from operations approaching $300 million this year we expect to fund is growth with internally generated cash.
Last quarter we announced the Cabela's Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program designed to offset shareholder dilution resulting from the granting of equity-based compensation awards.
During the quarter we purchased 800 000 shares in open market transactions at an average price of $36.19.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
We couldn't be more pleased with our record financial results in the second quarter and the significant improvements we continue to make in our areas of strategic focus.
And with that operator let's open the call for questions [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Reed Anderson from Northland.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Tommy obviously in your core categories you're clearly taking share.
But I was curious to as you've kind of broaden the -- or not broaden but really focused the merchandise assortment I'm thinking of some of the apparel initiatives women's et cetera do you feel like you're getting a bigger share of the wallet that's even outside of your category? Have you done any work on it? I'm just curious of your thoughts.
Yes.
I do Reed.
We've taken a lot of really great steps in categories like tactical clothing soft tactical clothing.
Our women's initiative we call OutfitHer which is a full line of camouflage clothing designed for women by women not asking women to buy children's clothes and try to make it look like women's clothing.
We've made really good progress in outdoor living and in our home and gifts categories to just broaden our appeal a little bit without losing our core at all.
And I think what was really encouraging to us in the quarter we didn't disclose this in the script but comps excluding guns and ammunition were up 4.2%.
And you know the wrap against us in the past was we are totally dependent on guns and ammunition.
Well comps were 4.2% in the second quarter without guns and ammunition which speaks to your point I think.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
That's terrific.
I noticed too in your comments or at least in the release you even talked about power sports.
You made a positive comment on that.
I mean does that partly reflects some of the initiatives we saw at the most recent Analyst Day? Or there are some other things going on there that are driving that? It was a really big quarter in the boat business.
Apparently pent-up demand from several years of slow boat sales and flooding in the upper Midwest last year.
Research Division</strong> Makes sense.
Tommy I kind of always wanted to get your sense of the Firearms business.
We all know it's strong but there are still supply constraints particularly on a lot of the key products.
Do you still feel like you guys have a competitive advantage there? Are you seeing that or is that not the case anymore? No.
We definitely have a competitive advantage.
And it all comes back to the balance sheet strength that we have.
The issue of whether Cabela's can pay or not versus others is not even on the table as you can imagine.
And plus our merchandising and supply teams have just done a great job making sure that we were way ahead of the curve coming into fall.
I think we're in really great shape.
Research Division</strong> And then last question for Ralph on the bank side.
It look good.
Looks like we're finally starting to see at least on the interest income side a little bit impact of lower rates.
And so kind of what we saw in there is that it make sense in what we saw in 2Q on a go forward at least that that's kind of more what it looks like from an -- you're offsetting it by a lower interest to cost but that's more reflective of kind of the current environment does that make sense Ralph? Yes.
That's probably fair.
I'm not sure we've seen -- we haven't seen that much movement in interest rates on the way down but we have seen some.
And as you know we have completed all of our refinancing on the interest expense side.
As I quoted who would have ever thought in our lifetimes you'd borrow 5-year money at a fixed rate of 1.45%? That's a great business.
We'll take our next question from Sean Naughton of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Question on the Direct business.
Can you talk about some of the categories that were strong within the Direct business and maybe elaborate on some of the strategies you used in the quarter to really help drive that improvement? Sure.
Shooting was very strong in the quarter.
Fishing was also very strong.
And to my earlier comments home and gifts were very strong.
I want to first characterize that we were really pleased to see progress in the Direct business in the second quarter.
But caution this is as we've said this is a long-term fix to get the business where we want it to be but clearly a good first step in the quarter.
More than product making a difference we tested up a bunch of different things in catalogs size of catalogs frequency driving browser traffic and a number of things that frankly for Sean for competitive reasons we're not going to go into detail on.
We are pleased with how some of those things tested they clearly worked.
In the balance of the year we're going to test some more things and see how they work.
But good initial progress nice first step but it is a long path that we're on and we're going to keep at it.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
That make sense.
And then Ralph maybe you can just give us an idea of how we should think about new account growth relative to new store growth and what you believe is kind of a reasonable expectation? And secondly is there anything on the regulation front that we should be thinking about on the card business? You know I think -- well first of all let me start with account growth.
We had account growth of almost 8%.
There's no question we'll see upward pressure on that.
I think we can envision account growth as sort of in the low-double digits as we start to accelerate store growth.
But we actually went back and did some work for this.
We had growth rates in that business in the mid-teens in 2008 but that's when we were adding 8 stores on a base of 24.
So we won't be growing square footage at the same percentage.
But I would think that -- I would think we could get up to a sort of low-double-digit account growth over the next 3 or 4 years.
Now as far as regulation goes I would tell you from a congressional standpoint most regulators no new regulation that we see.
I think some of you probably noticed 10 days ago this Visa settlement that came out.
We -- we're just continuing to watch what can happen interchange rates.
There's nothing in that settlement that we're too terribly concerned about.
But obviously if something happened in credit card interchange which at least as we look at the world now we don't see.
But that could be a risk in the future.
Research Division</strong> Completely understood.
And then just lastly as we kind of look at the balance of the year are there any changes in promotions between Q3 and Q4 that we should be cognizant of from a modeling standpoint? And then as a follow-up given the difficult weather conditions last year in Q4 how are you thinking about the opportunity for upside in the fourth quarter and then growth in that business? Well we don't have any major media shift -- major promotional shift plans.
We're going to test a number of things but there'll be weighed against what we did in the prior year.
So on balance I would call it a push.
We might have a little more media later in the year.
I think we feel really encouraged about hunting season and the products especially Cabela's branded products that we're going to have for sale in the fall hunting season.
And so I think we're reasonably encouraged.
We'll just see I don't know what the weather's going to be.
But it doesn't seem like the drought in the upper Midwest has had a meaningful effect on our business thus far given comp strength in the quarter and the improvements in the Direct business.
So we'll manage the weather best we can when it happens.
We'll take our next question from Lee Giordano with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you provide an update on the rollout of the price optimization tool that you've been working on both the timing and the expected benefits in that? Yes.
We continue to roll the price optimization model out.
And I think the timing that we had quoted prior was later this year into the early part of next year but moving ahead pretty much as planned.
I would comment one of the things that really helped us in the quarter was the managing of markdowns through the quarter.
We're going to finish -- we finished the quarter and now we're transitioning to fall merchandise as clean as we've ever been.
So carryovers of inventories from spring and summer to fall are going to be as low as we can remember.
And obviously the fact that we managed to get margin rate increase as we managed through getting out of categories is a testament that our merchants and our planners are doing a great job managing price optimization even at this early stage.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a quick follow-up on firearm sales.
There's been a lot of talk over the past week about a pickup in firearms across the country in the wake of the tragedy in Colorado.
Can you give us a sense of any impact on your business that you're seeing and if is there's any potential long-term effects that might take place? Well I don't know about the long-term impact but obviously our hearts go out to the victims and everybody touched by the tragedy in Aurora.
And I would say that the trends that you read about in the press we are experiencing at least thus far since the incident.
We'll take our next question from Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question is I wanted to touch on the new free shipping program for CLUB Visa members.
I'm wondering if that's helping to drive direct traffic or conversion or maybe card member account growth? And then can you talk about how the economics of that are playing out? Does the extra volume from free shipping pay for the markdown? Does it drive a gross margin dollar improvement? Matt that's a really good question.
If you followed cabelas.com you would note that we just launched it a little more than 3 weeks ago late in the month of June.
So one it didn't have a meaningful impact on the quarter.
And two is limited to the subset of our cardholders.
And it is a promotion at this point not a permanent benefit.
So there are opt-ins and all that kind of stuff.
I would say at this point it's way too early to tell because it's again a test and validate and let's see what effect this does.
It has had a nice impact on new card activation which is a really good thing.
Mechanisms for future funding we're going to have to balance against if we want to continue to do this longer term against other promotions and other places that we spend money.
So early signs are encouraging but we've got some work to do before we decide what to do longer term.
Ralph you want to add anything? No.
I just -- and Tommy touched on it.
But you asked as part of your question what the impact is our new card growth.
We always view that as an ancillary benefit I'm not sure it's that significant.
But we've seen lift in cards both in our call centers and in our Internet as a result of the promotion.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's interesting.
And then secondly I'm wondering -- I enjoyed hearing your comment about the new stores and their performance out of the gate.
At the Analyst Day you mentioned that the newer stores are about 30% more productive per foot.
Is it fair to say based on your enthusiasm that maybe they're even doing a little bit better than that? They are doing really really well.
And it really encourages us to see that our customers are voting in the strongest of possible ways that this new format does not compromise customer experience.
In fact I would note that our voice of the customers scoring system that we talked about at Analyst Day some of our best-performing stores are the new stores.
And so we're getting great customer experience and then the financial implications I mean I just can't understate how meaningful they are.
It's significant and as we look at the buzz that's occurring in Rogers Arkansas today ahead of our opening and in Charleston West Virginia just weeks apart from Rogers the buzz is just tremendous.
And this morning we announced what we know is a hugely lucrative market for us in the Direct business which is Alaska to have a big presence in Anchorage is just really really important.
And we have coveted a site in Alaska for a long long time in our company.
Just to add on a little bit on to the new store discussion I did some work in this and looked at earnings release before we sent it out.
But if you look at the incremental retail sales growth beyond the comp and compare it to incremental square footage growth you'll get a sense for how well those new stores are doing.
We didn't to quantify it on the call primarily because Wichita opened in March and Tulalip opened in May.
So a lot of the big grand opening hype of those stores was within the quarter.
If we try to quantify it it might distort whatever numbers we had.
And then Saskatoon opened in May.
So we wanted to get the grand openings sort of out of the quarter before we started giving you guys numbers on that.
But I think it's safe to say based from what we've seen is we're really pleased with kind of the 2012 class of stores that we've seen so far which are the 3 we've opened.
We've got 2 more in August that we look forward to report to you on the next call.
But 2 of the underlying messages you guys should take away from this call is how pleased we are with new store performance and also how well our business is doing in Canada.
We continue to feel really really good about that market.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's great.
If I could just sneak in one more which is can you comment on your comps in the guns and ammo categories versus how the market is doing? Do you think you're holding share gaining share maybe giving up a little share? No.
I think we're gaining share.
Just the fact that we have -- are inside positions are pretty good in guns and our balance sheet gives us access to our best partners under the biggest sellers.
Supply constraints have -- they're crop up here and there but on balance I think we're in really good shape and probably taking share in guns and ammo.
And we'll go next to Dave Magee from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One is as I look to the next quarter in terms of comparisons it looks like you have an opportunity in terms of somewhat a user comparison.
I think as our call is related to last year to the warm weather in the Fall if things are normal this Fall in terms of getting cooler on time which I know may be a stretch from how it seems today.
But if that happens is that a real opportunity in terms of perhaps some acceleration in comps year-to-year? Well one would think so.
And we tried to bake that into our guidance that we expressed today.
But it would appear to be an opportunity and -- but you know the Fall -- the dove haven't started flying yet.
Until the dove start flying I for one don't start to get excited until the hunters start to hit the field.
But it would look like an opportunity.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions on the next-generation stores open this year.
One is is the mix in merchandise being sold significantly different than the legacy stores? And then any thoughts on how the stores might comp next year given that they've started off so strongly this year? The merchandise mix being sold really is market dependent.
As you would expect in the Pacific Northwest in Tulalip we're selling a lot more outerwear.
And in the new store in Allen Texas we're selling more firearms because it's Texas and that's a good gun market for us.
But I don't think the dispersion of what we're selling is any different in the new stores than it is in the legacy stores.
But I think what's happening in the new stores is this lack of necessity to triplicate assortments and then have to deal with the markdown of those product categories because we had to duplicate and worse even more than duplicate offering to fill space.
Just the raw productivity of the stores is so much better.
I want to talk a little bit you asked about how these stores are going to comp as they come into the comp base.
First of all we really can't comment on the ones we just opened this year because we don't know.
But the best data point we have is to go back and look at the stores we opened a year ago in Springfield Oregon and in Allen Texas.
And they're performing as the end of the comp base sort of right in line with the comp.
They're not a huge lift and they're certainly not a distraction.
How well -- and by the way Edmonton will enter the comp base this Fall.
But there's nothing to believe that what we've seen in Saskatoon or the other 2 stores we opened this year that -- or I guess which would be Tulalip and Wichita that those won't have the same performance moving into the comp base.
I think it's more common on these next-generation stores and how they're more consistent performers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My last question has to do with the Direct business.
And hopefully what we're seeing here is an inflection point with regard to improving top line trends there.
Do you feel any differently about that process as it happens what the impact might be on your store base? Do you think that it can be done with the sort of a minimal impact as far as cannibalization? I think what's going to be really interesting to see is as we go to places where we don't have stores like Anchorage Alaska it's going to be interesting to see if there's actually a lift in the Direct business in Alaska because our visual footprint is elevated.
We're in the market and we're more top of mind because customers will drive by our store and frankly we'll just have to wait and see what happens.
But it's going to be very interesting to watch.
We'll go next to Rick Nelson with Stephens Incorporated.
Research Division</strong> This is Joe Edelstein in for Rick.
You started the conversation and indicated that you saw a lift in the average ticket.
As you look out to the rest of the year and I know Tommy you mentioned that hunters will come into the store once we've really move into the hunting season.
But how do you think the split will look between average price and general traffic into the stores? I think that we feel really good about our media plan for the Fall.
So I guess I'm cautiously optimistic that we've got a media plan and product offering and product value to continue the traffic trends but time will tell obviously.
We have spent a lot of effort in retail in driving average ticket up and we've done it through a lot more clip strips.
And I'll give you an example in the Northeastern United States there is today an explosion in bug population: flea tick mosquitoes.
So in our Northeastern stores you're going to see a lot more opportunities in the store all throughout the store to buy those kinds of products to encourage that purchase.
And we've done it in a bunch of other categories.
We put -- as I mentioned earlier tactical clothing over near the firearms and ammunition pads.
That's lifted that category which drives higher tickets.
So ticket being up believe me is not an accident but our teams in merchandising and in retail operations have focused there and it was really great to see results from it.
And we're going to continue.
Research Division</strong> If I can then maybe just come back to the stores.
A lot of excitement around the next-gen stores and the potential for outpost stores.
I'm just curious what things are you learning from those that you can then come back and apply into the larger legacy stores? How much focus in the past for instance has there been on flexing merchandise pads within the larger stores or even incorporating the new digital signage and other initiatives that you have? Well the first outpost store will not open until October.
But we had a -- our last full briefing on the Union Gap outpost store just 2 days ago for the whole management team.
And it was really interesting to watch the teams talk about wow let's see if this works in outpost because if it does it is -- we could use that learning in the big store.
And I'm not going to go into all the details for competitive reasons but things like digital signage and flexing pads we're going to learn at Union Gap and then when we open Saginaw we're going to learn some more.
And then in the remaining 3 as part of the test we're going to learn even more.
But our teams are really keyed in on what can we learn here that can help the bigger stores get even more profitable.
And I'll add to that.
I would tell you that more than the store design the learnings we're getting is just from having more and more retail talent expertise in our organization and bringing in that talent and applying sort of a talent knowledge as opposed to just the store design.
There clearly are things that we learn from store design and having new of them but the talent acquisition is by far a bigger contributor to it.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And maybe one last question on the outpost store.
I know the concept is really intended to be put into the smaller markets I think you said 200 000-type population markets.
But is there a reason why this format couldn't work in say a larger city? Well maybe but I think the short answer is I'm not sure we feel we need to at this point given how well the next-generation stores are doing in larger cities.
Now I would tell you there are some markets that we've looked at where maybe you could supplement them with an outpost store.
But I think or at least our thinking today is big markets next-generation stores; smaller markets output stores.
And we'll go next to Jonathon Grassi with Longbow Research.
I guess obviously it was really encouraging to hear that the comp was up excluding the gun and ammo but you did mention the 12 and 13 product categories saw an increase.
Which category was down? I actually don't remember it but it was down in a miniscule amount.
Okay.
And then you had mentioned the 24 basis point product margin headwind from the gun and ammo in the quarter.
If I recall you guys begin to increase prices on firearms about a quarter or 2 ago.
Can you remind us when you started to increase the prices in? And if those price increases hadn't gone through what would've been the -- if you could quantify the headwind would have been on the product margin improvement that would be helpful.
We actually began to be a little more aggressive in pricing more than a year ago.
And we'll have to look -- I don't have the number off the top of my head of what it would've been had we not.
But I got to believe it would've been double or more.
But we'll look at that.
Okay.
And then I guess finally I know you guys have been hesitant to declare your total retail store potential.
But now that you guys have had more time to study potential locations for the outpost stores do you have any guidance that you could provide on how many total Cabela's doors you think there could be in U.S.
and Canada? Yes.
Well we've done some work in Canada.
On the store format we're opening in Canada which is a 50 000- or 70 000-square-foot store the answer is probably somewhere around 20.
Now at some point we'll need to come up with the smaller format in Canada because all the smaller markets are in the city and we haven't considered that yet.
In the U.S.
between outpost and our next-generation stores it's probably somewhere between 150 and 200 stores.
But one of the reasons that we don't want to nail it down is just like we're on retail expansion as we rollout more and more next-generation stores we're learning more about each of those markets.
A perfect example is in Seattle with our opening in Tulalip.
We're doing unbelievably well north of Seattle and it's caused us to believe there's probably room for yet another Cabela's store in the Seattle market.
And I'm not sure 5 years ago we saw that as a 3-store market.
So we're continuing to learn a lot as we rollout stores and we think there's a lot of opportunity.
We'll go next to Jim Duffy with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple questions for you.
I know you had the firearms promotion in April 2011.
Where we sit right now have we fulling anniversary-ed the more promotional agenda that you had in the quarters past? Yes.
I believe so Jim.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a follow-up to Nemer's question on the interplay between Direct business growth rates and the direct margin rates can you speak to the strategy for balancing that on a go-forward basis.
I know that's something that you guys spend a lot of time thinking about.
It is something we spend a lot of time thinking about.
And I'm not sure I can give you a whole lot of direction in other words we're going to continue try a variety of promotions and trim out those that don't work and focus on those that work.
And there will be obviously some will work more effectively than other over time.
We think margin will be at -- there's no question I think margin will be under some pressure as we do this.
But we think it's important to grow that business and make the necessary investments.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also a follow-up about the new store productivity curve.
Sounds like you're having big grand openings but then they just fall right in line with the comp base.
Is that what you saw in Grand Junction and what you saw in just the one in...
No.
No.
What I -- my comments were those stores -- really every store since we opened in Billings Montana we're seeing significantly higher productivity on a per square foot basis.
My comment with respect to the comp is when those stores anniversary we continue to see growth in that business.
And it does grow at about the same rate as the entire base.
But just to be clear on a per square foot basis those stores start off and continue to do much much better than the base stores.
To the extent I would tell you Jim there are some of those stores that are doing 50% to 100% better than the base.
I mean there's some big -- there's some very high performers in the 2011 2012 class.
Jim they've opened big and stayed big.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then historically you had the big grand opening splurge.
And then in the past it was difficult to anniversary that.
It seems like you're doing it more gracefully now.
As you get into quarters beyond the initial grand opening are you seeing even greater productivity in the comps? As it relates to the combination of well new stores in the comp they still do have a big grand opening in the first 3 months.
We comp the stores after 15 months.
So as they enter the comp base we're seeing the stores in and the comp base comping positive.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I got you.
Okay.
And then just a housekeeping question.
What was the preopening expense during the quarter Ralph? And what are you spending there per store with the newer format? Well there's $2.2 million in Q2 of '12 and that was down a little bit from a year ago.
Now the thing that's a little bit misleading about that is most of our -- we've spent most of the preopening costs in the quarter because let's say if you go back to Wichita opened in March so that one was fully pre-opened.
And then we opened Tulalip in April so that was mostly had the preopening costs.
So really what you're seeing in the preopening cost in the second quarter is whatever residual amount we've spent in Saskatoon in the 6 weeks prior to opening.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk at all about the delta in Internet sales kind of as a percent of Direct? Well it continues to be a bigger part of the Direct business as you would expect.
We don't really talk about the splits between those 2 but Internet continues to be growing at a much more rapid rate.
And obviously call center orders continue to decline.
Mark it's -- the Internet is a very sizable piece of the Direct business way north of half.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then second can you comment on current trends or if not maybe the cadence of sales during the quarter? During the third quarter thus far? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Third quarter thus far and kind of cadence during Q2.
Trends are very consistent with what we saw in the second quarter by channel.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Any insight on thinking of how sales trended during Q2? No.
We don't really go into intra-quarter trends but it was a good revenue quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Then lastly you guys had talked quite a bit about some excitement around fishing.
Any other insight on strengths or weaknesses within the fishing category during the quarter? Gosh it's just -- Mark it's just been a great fishing season.
And I think it's a combination of terrific merchandise assortment good in-stocks appropriate levels of promotion in all channels.
And it was really helpful this year that those areas in the country that were flooded out last year from the Rockies all the way through the upper Midwest they actually had water and fishable lakes and rivers this year.
And there's no further questions in the queue.
I would like to turn the call back over to Tommy Millner for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thanks everybody for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you again very soon.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen Welcome to the Cabela's Inc.
Third Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Chris Gay Director Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call may include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks Chris and good morning everyone.
Our record third quarter financial results validate that our growth strategy is working well and our new next-generation stores are performing well above our legacy destination store base.
For the quarter we realized strong growth in comp store sales higher merchandise and operating margins strong growth in our Cabela's CLUB Visa program and very strong performance from our next-generation stores.
This strong performance led to record third quarter earnings and further increases in return on invested capital.
We are particularly pleased with the very strong performance we're seeing from our next-generation stores.
Several quarters ago we noted that our next-generation stores at that time were outperforming our legacy stores on a sales per square foot and profit per square foot basis by 30% to 40%.
As we continue to open additional next-generation stores this outperformance has only improved.
For the 8 next-generation stores that were open for the entire quarter sales and profit per square foot are meaningfully better than the 30% to 40% we noted last year.
This is extremely encouraging as we continue to accelerate retail store expansion.
Additionally our next-generation stores are performing better than our legacy stores as they enter the comp base.
In the quarter our next-generation stores had comp store sales several hundred basis points higher than our existing store base.
For 2013 we expect to open 6 domestic next-generation stores one Canadian next-generation store and 2 Outpost stores.
Additionally we will be relocating our existing 45 000 square foot Winnipeg store to a more desirable location and have increased the size to 70 000 square feet.
We have announced all our next-generation store locations for 2013.
Our scheduled store openings for 2013 represent a 13% growth rate in Retail square footage.
Current plans call for opening 2 next generation and one Outpost store in the first quarter one next generation and the Winnipeg relocation in the second quarter and 4 next-generation stores and one Outpost store in the second half of the year.
As a result of the strong new store performance we are accelerating square footage growth as we plan for 2014.
For 2014 we now expect to open 8 domestic next-generation stores.
We have already announced 3 of these sites: Anchorage Alaska; Bristol Virginia; and Christiana Delaware.
Four new locations were approved at or prior to this month's board meeting and we intend to publicly announce the specific locations over the next several months.
The final location is still being reviewed and is expected to be approved shortly.
In addition to our domestic next-generation stores we are also pursuing additional opportunities in Canada.
Canada is proving to be a great market for Cabela's.
Our 3 Canadian stores continue to be some of our best-performing new stores.
For 2014 we are searching for new locations for our next-generation stores.
Three weeks ago we opened our first Outpost store in Union Gap Washington which was a huge success with thousands of people waiting to shop the store on grand opening day.
While still early the results from this store are extremely encouraging.
We are particularly pleased that due to the emphasis on softgoods and Cabela's branded products merchandise margin is several hundred basis points higher than consolidated merchandise gross margin.
Customer feedback has been overwhelmingly positive and we are already planning enhancements for our future Outpost stores.
In addition to strong new store performance we also realized continued strength in comp store sales which increased 3.9% in the quarter.
The increase in comp store sales was broad based as sales increased in 27 of our 32 comp stores.
For the quarter average ticket increased nearly 5%.
Excluding firearms comp store sales increased 1.6%.
For the quarter merchandise gross margin increased 130 basis points to 37.2%.
This is the highest third quarter merchandise margin in more than 8 years.
Similar to last quarter we continued to see significant strength in the firearms and shooting categories which caused a material mix shift into these lower-margin categories.
For the quarter this adverse mix resulted in roughly a 60 basis point headwind to merchandise margin.
Now let me turn to Retail profitability which is a key initiative in our Retail growth strategy.
For the quarter Retail profitability increased 190 basis points to 18.7% a new third quarter record.
This is the 14th consecutive quarter of Retail profit contribution improvement.
Improvements in Retail profitability were due mostly to higher merchandise margin.
Despite the strong results from our next-generation stores higher gross margin and a 28% increase in earnings per share results in our Direct segment did not meet our expectations.
Our CLUB Visa free-shipping offer generated higher revenue growth no lift in gross profit dollars greater order frequency and increases in new cardholder sign-ups.
The absence of shipping income from CLUB customers impacted Direct revenue by 300 basis points.
Additionally a less promotional approach to our non-CLUB Visa customers combined with weaker demand for softgoods and footwear also negatively impacted Direct revenue growth.
As the third quarter progressed we responded with an increase in advertising spend and have seen improved results as we moved into the fourth quarter.
During the quarter we realized improvements in Internet traffic and multichannel customers increased 3.9%.
Now let's look at operating expenses.
For the quarter operating expense as a percent of revenue increased 110 basis points to 35.6% compared to 34.5% in the year-ago quarter.
Deleverage of operating expense is due mostly to higher preopening cost increased advertising and additional investments in IT.
We fully expect to leverage expenses during the fourth quarter and the fiscal year.
Now let's look at our Cabela's CLUB Visa program which had another exceptional quarter.
We continued to see strong growth in average active accounts lower funding costs and improvements in delinquencies and net charge-offs.
For the quarter average active accounts increased 9%.
We also realized significant improvements in net charge-offs which were just 1.71% and are at the lowest levels we'll -- we've seen in 5 years.
With the backdrop of low funding cost strong account growth and favorable delinquencies and charge-offs we are very confident that the Cabela's CLUB Visa program will continue to have a very good year.
Now looking at guidance.
It is clear our strategies are working and our next-generation stores are achieving superior results.
Accordingly we expect our full year 2012 earnings per share to be at the high end of our previous guidance of $2.63 to $2.68.
While our 2013 budget is not yet finalized we expect 2013 earnings per share to grow at least at a low double-digit rate.
As we continue this exciting time of growth and expansion for our company I want to personally thank each and every Cabela's outfitter for all your hard work your dedication and effort in cherishing and delighting our customers each and everyday.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance of our Cabela's CLUB Visa program.
Thanks Tommy.
Following up on Tommy's remarks we're very pleased with the third quarter performance and in particular the strong performance of our next-generation stores.
For the quarter GAAP earnings per share increased 28% from $0.47 to $0.60.
As a reminder in the third quarter a year ago we incurred impairment and restructuring charge of $3.5 million.
Excluding these charges earnings per share in the third quarter of 2011 would've been $0.50.
For the quarter Financial Services revenue increased 20.3% to $85.9 million.
The increase in Financial Services revenue was primarily due to higher interest and fee income and lower interest expense.
For the quarter net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans improved 52 basis points to 1.71% compared to 2.23% in the third quarter last year.
This is our lowest charge-off level in more than 5 years.
Additionally we continue to see improvements in delinquencies.
Greater than 30-day delinquencies were just 0.81% as compared to 0.94% a year ago.
Greater than 60-day delinquencies were 0.59% as compared to 0.55% a year ago and greater than 90-day delinquencies were 0.26% as compared to 0.27% a year ago.
Now let me highlight the future funding plans of our Cabela's CLUB Visa program.
Our next term securitization doesn't mature until January of 2015 and we not -- and we do not expect to complete another term securitization this year.
As we look forward to 2013 we expect to complete a term securitization in the first half of next year to fund growth.
Additionally we worked to early renew one of our commercial -- one of our conduit facilities.
These facilities of which we have 3 all have 3-year terms.
By early renewing one of the 2 facilities that will mature in 2014 we will have only one of our 3 conduit facilities mature at any one year.
From an inventory standpoint inventory increased 11% or $69 million year-over-year to $722 million.
The increase in inventory is attributable to new stores as well as preparing for the fall winter and holiday season.
We're maintaining our favorable levels in the firearms and shooting categories and we've improved Retail in-stock level slightly.
Accounts payable increased $121 million year-over-year which is mostly attributable to the Cabela's CLUB Visa payable through our processer FDR.
This is merely a timing difference related to quarter end.
Gift instruments and credit card reward points increased nearly 14% or $26 million year-over-year to $218 million.
$20.3 million of the increase was due to additional credit card rewards.
The cash flow -- this cash flow is often overlooked benefit as the Cabela's CLUB Visa program pays for the points when earned rather than when redeemed.
To the first 9 months of the year cash flow from operations was $57.6 million up slightly from the same period a year ago and capital expenditures were $144.2 million.
With our accelerating store growth plans we expect full year 2012 capital expenditures to be between $175 million and $200 million.
With cash flow from operations expected to approach $300 million this year we expect to fund this growth with internally generated cash.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
We're very pleased with our record financial results for the third quarter and the very strong results of our new next-generation stores.
With that operator let's open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Reed Anderson with Northland Securities.
Research Division</strong> First question Tommy I just want to kind of follow up on your kind of on the prepared remarks regarding the Direct piece.
I mean you talked about weaker demand for clothing and footwear.
I wanted to just be clear though was that statement or that commentary is that specific to the Direct channel? Or was that what you were kind of seeing across your business in the third quarter? Reed let me give you some expansive color on that.
When we talked on the last call we indicated to you guys that the favorable trends in the Direct business that we'd seen in Q2 were proceeding into July and the early part of third quarter.
Those trends essentially continued in the Direct business and also in the Retail business until the middle of August.
And then in the Direct business to your question it certainly felt like the consumer slowed down a lot from mid-August through the end of September and September got worse than the second half of August particularly in clothing and footwear.
From what we're seeing anecdotally around the marketplace that probably shouldn't be a surprise.
What is encouraging is that once we got that shot of cold weather in early October it felt like either that stimulated the customer or this timeout the customer took in September turned.
So we have seen a really nice improvement in trend now in the early parts of the fourth quarter in both businesses.
So it was interesting in the Retail business we didn't -- the clothing and footwear slowed not as much as it did in the Direct business.
And as we've come into Q4 we're seeing comp trends nicely above third quarter trends.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And back to that just one more on the Direct piece then.
And there -- was there any change in I know that you've tweaked the advertising a little bit in terms of mailing out books or timing or cadence that could have possibly factored into that slowdown that was more pronounced than Direct? Yes.
As we've consistently said this is a -- the Direct business has been tough for more than 5 years and we're managing a lot of levers to try and find that optimal pitch level to get the business back to flat and then hopefully to positive.
As we approach the third quarter with the great trends coming in in July and with a large Cabela's CLUB Visa free-shipping offer now that's 1/3 of our customer base in the Direct business almost 70% is non-CLUB business we elected to be a little less promotional.
We pulled a number of offers none of them I would characterized as huge.
But our promotional cadence was less with the other side of our business.
Then as we got deeper in the quarter and saw the slowing of the business we did respond with self-mailers and more catalogs and more spend on dot.com to drive traffic.
So that was the note that you saw with ad spend being up.
So catalog circ was actually up 11% in the quarter but that came late and in the face of a pretty tough climate in September which has turned in October.
Research Division</strong> And just a couple of others.
Overall it seems like you've tested at least selective I don't know if it's just in some mailings or Direct or some stores too but a little bit some higher end higher price point positioning some branded stuff.
I've seen stuff on the Camels.
I'm just curious what's your initial read on that is.
We are really pleased.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so would -- will we see that expand more at the store level you think in the fourth quarter or is it -- or not? Well our position in the fourth quarter is to be -- the fourth quarter's really big for us needless to say.
So we're gonna take a much more aggressive posture with price.
We're going to be more aggressive promotionally to really make sure that we protect this big bulk of business that we've got.
So I wouldn't be surprised at all to see -- we had terrific merchandise margins in Q4 of last year.
I would expect margins to be nearly at those levels as we get a little more promotional.
There's just -- we're coming out of a presidential election.
We don't know who's gonna win.
And we want to make sure we're positioned aggressively in Q4 and are taking that kind of posture in both businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And then Tommy last question.
You just -- you gave a little look into the kind of next year in terms of just high-level expectations in terms of earnings et cetera.
And my question would be as you look at -- and you've had a terrific year on the margin side and you just talked about this again.
As you look into next year right now based on what you know is it -- do you still see that sort of margin expansion continue into next year? Or is it perhaps a year where you get a little pause there and it's more of kind of balanced between -- and maybe not a lot of expansion? Well we expect expansion always.
Will it be at the same rate that we've seen? Probably not.
I think it is a year where we balance margin growth a little lower to -- especially as we're working through the balance in the Direct business.
We'll take our next question from Rick Nelson with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Tommy I'd like to get your latest like results on gun sales as it relates to the election.
I understand Cabela's has a red plan and a blue plan.
I'd like to learn a little bit more about that.
What the guidance for next year might assume about guns and ammo? Well that's a really great question and the crystal ball gets pretty murky when you look at the polls.
At least coming in to the fourth quarter we've taken a pretty aggressive position in inventory commitment to both guns and ammunition.
So that's a starting point.
Clearly if the president's reelected I would expect some surge beyond the current levels which are really good.
And if Governor Romney is elected Rick I still think we're gonna see gun growth next year.
It probably won't be at the same pace.
But 3 weeks ago the Fish and Wildlife Service released data that validated what we all know that the shooting sports are actually growing and vibrant.
More women more adults are hunting and more youth participation and this is a reversal of a 25-year declining trend.
So there's still gonna be economic uncertainty next year regardless of who wins the election.
That is clearly stimulating demand.
And we've got a lot more people involved in the sports that we cater to.
So it's probably a difference of degrees as we sit here today but we're doing a lot of stuff in our stores to make sure we are the easiest fastest place to shop for your firearms purchases.
We've got the biggest assortment as you know the most knowledgeable people.
So I feel really good about that part of our business.
It'll be a matter of degrees I think.
Research Division</strong> How important are gun sales to the growth that we're seeing in the non-gun categories? You mentioned on firearms categories were up 1.6%.
But how much of that is attachment to firearms purchase? Obviously some of it is.
But I think what we've seen in years past that we've talked about on prior calls is during these periods of really accelerating gun sales there is a stealing of share of wallet that our customers have that shifts away from footwear clothing a new 4-way parka as -- they have a limit to -- unfortunately they have a limit to how much of their money we can relieve them of.
But there is that shift that happens.
So we continue to believe and I think history validates that if guns settle a little bit it frees up dollars to be spent in other parts of our store.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense and potentially a higher margin of purchases? Well yes.
The headwinds in the quarter were 60 basis points because of the acceleration of guns.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The Outpost stores it sounds like you're very pleased with the performance there.
Wondering if you could share the economics and how you think the ROI there might compare to the next-gen stores which I realized are above the legacy stores.
Let me give you a little color and then I'll have Ralph talk about the economics.
First of all there -- a number of folks on the call who made the effort to come to the grand opening and we really appreciate that.
And I think their eyes were opened about how exciting this store was.
Couple of takeaways for me Yakima Union Gap is a relatively small market community yet we had huge lines of people waiting at grand opening.
I thought the store looked fantastic.
The visual presentation of merchandise in the store was as good or better than our big stores.
If we had a concern coming into grand opening it was the concern of does the customer walk in and say "Oh this is Cabela's light.
This isn't a real Cabela's store." And I can categorically tell you that did not happen.
Those customers walked in the store and like our jaws dropped their jaws dropped.
Now what's been encouraging -- and what's 3 weeks or a month of a trend in a new store? There's a whole a lot of the story still to be told.
But the concentration of Cabela's branded merchandise in hardgoods and softgoods is unlike anything we've ever tried in one of our legacy stores or our next-generation stores.
And we are seeing a really strong lift in margin to no one's surprise.
So I'll -- before I turn it over to Ralph I'll just close with remember this is a test.
We -- we're going to open 5 of these stores.
We're gonna see how they do.
But I got to tell you we are really excited with what we're seeing especially the customer reaction.
Ralph do you want to talk about the economics? Well yes.
Keep in mind Rick we were talking about this Outpost store.
It was not open at all in the third quarter.
So we haven't even from a financial standpoint closed the month yet with that store's results in it.
Having said that we modeled that store on a per square foot basis to be consistent with our next-generation stores and those are the trends we're seeing after 3 or 4 weeks.
Research Division</strong> And then finally if I can ask you on the cost side of the Direct channel.
Do you think there's opportunity there for cost takeout? Or is the plan to reallocate from catalog to Internet and basically maintain the current cost structure? Well it's actually a more complicated answer than that.
There is clearly a shift that we are going through from print dollars to paid search we have an exciting new e-mail provider so from print to digital dollars.
But as we really expand mobile commerce through tablets and PDAs there's probably some capital investment we're going to have to make that will have some small expense tied to it.
But I think the story is really figuring out how to effectively sell softgoods in the printed digital transformation online and making sure that from a technology standpoint as consumers move from desktop to tablet that we've got the most robust way for them to interact with us.
And that's the journey.
Research Division</strong> The free shipping offers that you tested in the quarter are you happy with those? And is that a program that is gonna be expanded in the fourth quarter? Yes.
It's a -- if you go to cabelas.com you'll see it's free shipping to all of our Cabela's CLUB Visa customers.
We have -- it's an offer not a permanent benefit because it's a test.
We're learning how this actually impacts our business.
And I would say it's -- the reaction is mixed.
We did get a lift in sales albeit with only 1/3 of our customers.
Because of the cost of free shipping there was no lift in gross profit dollars.
So lift in sales no lift in margin dollars.
We did see an increase in transactions as you would expect and ticket was down on more frequent transactions.
And then the absence of shipping income did impact the growth rate by 300 basis points.
That's a long way to tell -- long way of telling you we're going to continue to evaluate in the fourth quarter this offer and decide what we do next year based on what we learned.
We'll take our next question from Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just to follow up on that last comment.
Why do you think the free shipping offer didn't drive more of a lift enough of a lift to pay for the offer? Do you think it has anything to do with you're already targeting your best customers versus maybe some more marginal customers? I'm just wondering if you can -- were you surprised that the program sort of in a way I guess didn't pay for itself? Well a little bit.
It -- these things are really hard to tell Matt.
The clothing and footwear business just got really soft in the back half of the quarter.
And we're not ones to blame it on the weather but it was -- it -- September was very warm in most of our markets and we're in the middle of fall goods at that point in time.
So was it that? Or was it this boom in gun sales that we don't benefit from in the Direct business that really was a drag and didn't let the promotion drive soft good sales? It is interesting.
As I mentioned we have the free shipping promotion in place now and plan for it to be the rest of the fourth quarter.
And now that weather's gotten colder we're seeing a nice improvement in trend rate in the Direct business.
So that's why we don't want to jump to conclusions.
We'll get through the fourth quarter and then really take a hard look at whether it met our expectations or not if that makes sense.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes it does make sense.
And then turning to expenses they were a little higher than what we were expecting.
Is there anything abnormal in there in the quarter? What leaves you confident that we'll see leverage in Q4 given the increase in advertising that you alluded to earlier in the call? Well first make sure you understood me clear: Our aggressive approach in Q4 is going to be more in pricing than in some massive increase in ad dollars.
So being a little more aggressive in pricing will affect merchandise margin not expense.
Having said that in the expense category in the quarter roughly 1/3 of the increase in expense was in preopening cost; 1/3 was in advertising which is really paid search and self-mailing catalogs.
And I think just the sheer volume of business that we do in Q4 naturally allows us to leverage our fixed costs a lot better.
So I think we're very confident about that.
In fact year-to-date we have leveraged expenses.
LLC Research Division</strong> Was the outpost -- were preopening costs for the outpost store -- I assume most of that hit in Q3 and maybe was a little higher than normal.
Yes with no revenue attached.
Yes all of it was.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly your comments on the next-generation stores are really encouraging.
I'm wondering if you can comment on the returns on those stores.
In your slide deck I think you've noted that you are looking for a 34% four-wall return which assumed $450 per foot.
How much higher could that four-wall return be? And where do you think the payback on these newer stores trends towards? Well I think the stores quite frankly certainly add.
The average of the stores is at or slightly above the levels that we shared with you in the slide you're referring to.
We've seen some deviation there.
One of the upside -- one of the stores in the upside has significantly exceeded those expectations and a handful of -- slightly below.
But look we feel really good about our next-generation stores and gain on returns at least is good as what we outlined in our Analyst Day which is I'm sure the slide you're referring to.
We will take our next question from Seth Sigman with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So on the Direct business you did a really good job of explaining all the different moving pieces.
But just want to clarify whether you're seeing any changes maybe in the competitive landscape to go down this path? And then how much of it maybe has just been cannibalization from the recent store openings? And then a follow-up.
Well I mean we just -- that's -- clearly happens but our internal position as a leadership team is look that's a reality.
We have to grow against that.
So look it's a reality.
We've opened -- this year we've opened 1 2 3 4 -- we've opened a bunch of stores that cannibalized the Direct business probably a couple of million bucks each but still we got to get the business to close to flat on a consistent basis and then try to get from flat to up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And -- but just to clarify nothing is really changing on the competitive landscape? No no not at all.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
So shifting gears to the credit card business.
You're starting to see an acceleration in account growth.
I mean can you maybe speak to how much of that is being driven by new store openings versus within some of the older stores and then specifically in those next-generation stores maybe what you're learning about the penetration where it can go with the new stores? Well Ralph was here in the 2002-to-2007 time period when we saw pretty good growth so I'll let Ralph comment on that.
I think there's no question that the new stores are helpful as we think about credit card growth but we're also seeing great growth at some of our base stores.
But to the point of your question I think you'll continue to see slight upward pressure on the growth rate as we open more and more stores.
And at least on a per-square-foot basis I don't think we're seeing anything different as it relates to the new stores versus our older ones.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay that's helpful.
And then just finally the comp acceleration that you're seeing early in the fourth quarter I mean any additional color on where that's coming from on a category basis? Well it's been pretty broad-based.
When you're in the fight everyday it's hard to tell.
It was -- weather certainly broke cold early in October.
And I mean we just saw an immediate impact in our stores in the Northwest through the Rockies upper Midwest all the way to the East Coast.
We just -- it was just immediate in both businesses.
And then the weather broke a little warmer and our trends continued pretty good.
So I think we're fairly optimistic about the balance of the quarter.
We are promotionally ready to have a good fourth quarter.
We'll take our next question from David Magee with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One is with relation to the promotional comment on the fourth quarter are you seeing anything -- you mentioned that you don't see anything competitively different online.
Are you seeing anything in the stores in the environment land-based competition that might be different that prompt you to be that way? No.
I -- it's just a bit of caution David.
Coming out of a major presidential election and all of this talk of a fiscal cliff and just broader economic malaise we want to make sure that the customer that's shopping for hunting fishing and camping gear comes to Cabela's.
And we think that's an appropriate thing to do.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And secondly with the improvement that you've made so far on merchandise margins in the last several years how much more run way do you have on that line item going forward? Do you feel like that you're discovering further additional ways to improve that merchandise margin? Or are we say 2/3 the way there? Yes I think there's -- we still have opportunities perhaps not at the level that we have gained in the last 3 years but deeper penetration of Cabela's-branded merchandise.
And if the outpost model is scalable and customers react to more Cabela's-branded merchandise in those stores that's a lift.
Price optimization tools better collaboration with our vendors they're just -- it's a continuous improvement process that we think offers opportunity but probably not at the same level that we've seen in the last several years.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I guess my last question perhaps for Ralph.
It seems like the credit business is in really good shape right now from a positioning standpoint.
What would happen next year if rates became -- overall rates became more volatile? Can you talk about any exposure you might have in that regard? Well we -- yes.
From sort of a textbook interest rate risk perspective we think we're actually well hedged to maybe a little bit overhead.
So in other words in a rising rate environment we can actually make a little bit more money.
Now that all presumes of course that we can -- look -- and our agreements allow for the automatic increase in rates as rates go up.
The question is how the consumer is going to respond to that particularly if they would move up dramatically.
But at least from a textbook standpoint we're hedged to a little bit over-hedged against a rising interest rate environment.
We'll take our next question from Jim Chartier with Monness Crespi Hardt.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first: It looks like preopening expense is about $10 million this quarter based on your comments.
What did it look like in the first 2 quarters of this year? And then my second question is -- obviously it sounds like you're going to be -- planned to be as promotional and more promotional fourth quarter.
If sales trend well what's your ability to dial back on those promotions and willingness to do so? Well we obviously have the flexibility to dial promotions up or back and pricing up or down so we have that kind of flexibility.
But just going into the quarter given the things I've talked about our posture is going to be a little more aggressive.
Just to comment on preopening.
The $10 million number you quoted is for the 9-month period.
For the quarter itself the third quarter there are about $4.1 million up from $1.4 million a year ago.
You'll remember a year ago -- which kind of goes to the expense question that was asked earlier a year ago most of our stores were open in the first half of the year so the preopening costs were relatively low.
And we saw a big increase in the third quarter which interestingly enough about matches the dollar increase we've seen on a year-to-date basis.
We'll take our next question from Jim Duffy with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you guys.
Catalog SIRC in -- and spend on catalog SIRC for the fourth quarter was some of that a pull-forward into the third quarter? No.
I mean I -- it's hard to measure that but we expect to be aggressive with respect to direct marketing costs beginning in September into the fourth quarter.
So we don't see a -- we don't see any movement downward to the fourth quarter.
No.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe building on that Tommy can you give us an idea on the nature of some of the promotional activity and the specific intent or strategy behind that in the fourth quarter? Jim a lot of our competitors are listening on the phone.
So respectfully if I don't answer the question I hope you'll understand.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I do I do.
Okay.
Clarification question: The next-gen store sales profit per square foot 30% to 40% better is that inclusive of the grand opening halo effect? Or is that a...
No -- well...
It -- I guess it depends on your point of view.
We only looked at the stores that were opened for the full quarter so it would include -- there was 8 stores -- there were -- 8 next-generation stores were opened for the quarter 2 of which Tulalip and Wichita opened in March and April of this year.
So to the extent there was still a grand opening effect from a March store into July or in the case of Wichita in April store into July the benefit of that was included but it's only on 2 of 8 stores.
And there wasn't much benefit.
I mean the halo is pretty much gone by then.
Just by the way Jim on the impact of the next-generation stores: They performed significantly better than the 30% to 40% which was the last metric we gave you.
They were really good.
To that effect in your note Jim I -- in your note I read this morning there was a -- you were talking about new store productivity and how it was off a little bit second quarter.
We had a talk about it offline but I wonder if the math on that wasn't because we had 2 stores -- the 2 next-generation stores we opened in August were both opened fairly late in the quarter so we didn't get a lot of sales.
But I'm telling you we feel really good about how those new stores are opening all 8 of them.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's good to hear.
I don't think I used the word awful.
No "off " was the...
Off.
Not awful.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then...
Jim we do read your stuff.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I was surprised.
That's pretty good Ralph.
Very productive.
The -- then given the number of new stores added in the quarter was the rate in cardholder growth what you thought it would be Ralph? Yes yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Where I'm going with is how do we think about that going forward? I calc-ed out about -- okay U.S.
store growth maybe 15% unit growth is about 2/3 of that a good rate for cardholder growth going forward? I had expected it maybe to be a little bit higher than that Jim.
I mean the -- we were up well I think it was 12.9% in the quarter on account growth.
And I think that will continue to be -- there will be a little slight upward pressure on that but it won't get -- anything north of 15% would seem to be unusually high mainly because I mean we do have 40 stores now and some of them are new but it's largely dependent upon how the original 30 continue to perform which by the way have performed nicely.
Jim one other thing in the outpost store in order to maximize the efficiency of labor in our outfitters inside the store the customer service manager is also the CLUB booth manager.
And one question we had was "How productive would Union Gap be in apps to trans?" And they just did a terrific job.
So that was a -- that's a really important validation for us at least a month into the store that we were able to consolidate work duties and still get excellent performance in card sign-up.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay good to hear.
And then last question one on a clarification.
You mentioned 8 new stores in '14.
Is that U.S.
only and the idea is there could be Canada stores on top of that? Yes.
Yes.
Jim just to -- let me add on to Canada a little bit talk about -- they -- talk about '14.
Jim you are right that we had -- we talk about 8 U.S.
next-generation stores.
We expect to also open up to 3 outpost stores and some significant by that I mean 1 to 3 stores in Canada.
And quite frankly the constraint which -- the Canadian stores are performing unbelievably well.
The constraint we really have there at the time and I'm still trying to wrestle with is just how much to push the management team there because going from 3 stores to 6 is a big deal.
So...
After going from 1 to 3.
1 to 3.
So -- but we feel really good about that business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
So the outpost stores are incremental to that 8 in '14.
It is -- that's correct.
That's correct.
We'll take our next question from Lee Giordano with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well it sounds like you stepped up inventory commitment in firearms for Q4.
Can you talk about how you position inventory in your other categories particularly in clothing and footwear? And secondly do you have significant fall carryover inventory in those 2 categories? Some but not meaningful to create a markdown issue down the road.
While we've clearly beefed up firearms and ammo inventories we're also in a really good inventory position in clothing and footwear and also across the chain -- across the inventory categories.
We just -- we're planning for a very good Black Friday to Christmas season and you can't do that without inventory.
Plus we have new stores coming online that are driving some inventory increase just from a timing standpoint.
I think what's really important to note though: We are very comfortable with the quality of our inventory levels.
We'll take our next question from Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First looking at the credit card account growth.
Can you just say how much of that maybe came from the free shipping promotion? And then looking at that weighting that into the free shipping does that make that more profitable or breakeven as a promotion? Well there's no question -- one of the things we look at when we talk about the free shipping is new club growth.
And there's no question there was an uptick in card accounts both from the Internet and the call centers because of the free shipping offer.
We did not promote free shipping from a CLUB standpoint very hard in our retail stores.
And it's -- I know you know 80% of our new accounts comes through Retail.
So look it clearly -- the free shipping offer with respect to CLUB accounts clearly provided a tailwind for the quarter but it wasn't that significant so...
Only because we're talking about 1/3 of 40% of our business in Direct with 80% of card sign-ups coming from Retail.
I mean to help you swag it it's -- in my opinion it's -- less than 100 basis points on the growth rate was attributable to free shipping but it was helpful.
And I think part of what we're going to be analyzing in the fourth quarter is did the customer that signed up for the card just do it to get that one free shipping offer and they're not going to use their card 3 weeks later or 1 month later or 2 months later? So what was the quality of the sign-up? We pretty much know what that is in Retail.
But off a big promotion like this we don't know if we're getting kind of just a deal-related customer or whether we're actually getting a long-term loyal customer.
And that's something we're going to look at.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that helps.
And then second Tommy you talked a little bit about gun sales kind of eating into your customer's wallet.
Can you talk about categories that maybe were hurt a little bit more by somebody that bought a gun and then maybe didn't buy a binoculars? Whatever it may be which categories maybe were down in the quarter? Categories that were down in the quarter in Direct it was footwear men's apparel power sports; in Retail hunting apparel.
And I attribute most of that to the very warm September.
And then men's apparel and camping were all softer in the quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you think weather maybe drove more of that than something about firearms...
Probably yes.
Just -- I'm sorry.
Just to add on to it Mark.
One of the interesting things about the comp and there's been some questions on the comp but a year ago we had a onetime offer that we pulled out of the base which is why the comp was down a year ago that we did not repeat this year.
So on -- in Retail we feel really good about posting up almost a 4% comp in what was a tough retail environment so...
With margins up 130 basis points.
Yes.
So we felt really good about the comp.
But if there was an expectation it should have been higher because it was against an easy compare.
We didn't necessarily view this quarter as an easier compare than any other quarter of the year because the year ago was sort of artificially deflated because of the absence of that promotion.
And that was the promotion that we affectionately internally called the devil offer.
It was $150 off a $500 purchase which I think we told you a year ago.
What customers did was they go buy a $500 gun that has 25 point margins in it and we give them $150.
So we basically paid them to take the gun and that didn't make sense -- or buy big bulk ammo purchases.
So we were actually pleased with the 3.9% comp and up 130 basis points in margins.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess we've been looking at excluding firearms being up to what was it 1.6%? Can you give some...
Yes.
Yes.
We'll take our final question from Anthony Lebiedzinski from Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> I may have missed this but just wanted to clarify: In your comments about the Direct business improving in the first few weeks of the fourth quarter do you mean that it's actually -- the revenue is up? Or is it just less of a decline versus the third quarter? Yes it's a trend change from third quarter so it's down less.
Research Division</strong> And also -- and in terms of the charge-off rates they're the lowest in 5 years.
Is this a level where we should think about this as far as the stabilization there? Or do you expect any additional improvement perhaps? Well I don't think we should expect any additional improvement from these levels.
And quite frankly I wouldn't be surprised as we move into '13 to see that number sort of freeze up in the -- both this.
The only thing that would keep that lower than that is the growth rate does to some extent suppress the charge-off just because it takes time for people to charge off.
That's the only thing that's going to keep it at these levels.
But I -- it's hard for me to imagine it gets much better than where it is today.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just a couple of housekeeping questions.
Preopening costs for the next-gen stores versus the outpost locations? Oh I -- they're clearly less because they're smaller stores.
But I don't know -- we're running -- in the quarter we ran -- we opened 3 stores and ran $4 million.
Now all the 3 opened got limited in the quarter but so you're running $1 million to $2 million a store and they're slightly less than that for an outpost store.
LLC</strong> And your tax rate has jumped around quarter-to-quarter.
What's the expectation for the fourth quarter? I would expect something pretty similar well until it -- let me pull up the tax note.
But pretty similar to what we had in the third quarter.
And with no further questions in the queue I would like to turn the call back over to Tommy Millner for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you again soon.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Inc.
Fourth Quarter and Full Fiscal 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Chris Gay Director of Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Our record fourth quarter financial results validate that our dominant Omni-Channel model is working well and our next generation stores continue to generate superior returns on capital.
For the quarter we realized strong growth in comp store sales increases in Direct revenue solid growth in our Cabela's CLUB Visa program and exceptional performance from our next-generation stores.
This strong performance led to record fourth quarter earnings and further increases in return on invested capital.
We are particularly pleased with the exceptional performance we're seeing from our next-generation stores.
During the quarter our next-generation stores were at least 40% more productive than our legacy stores in both sales and profit per square foot.
This is extremely encouraging as we continue to accelerate Retail store expansion.
Additionally our next-generation stores are performing better than our legacy stores as they enter the comp base.
In the quarter our next-generation stores had comp store sales roughly 50% higher than the existing store base.
In addition to the strength of our next-generation stores we continue to be pleased with the performance of our first Outpost store in Union Gap Washington.
The results from this store are very encouraging as it is outperforming our expectations on a sales and profit per-square-foot basis.
Due to the emphasis on softgoods and Cabela's brand products merchandise margin is several hundred basis points higher than consolidated merchandise gross margin.
Our second Outpost store located in Saginaw Michigan opened this morning to a large crowd.
And we are very excited to be able to service our customers in this region with one of our new format stores.
For 2013 we expect to open 6 domestic next-generation stores 1 Canadian next-generation store and 3 Outpost stores including our new Saginaw Michigan store.
Additionally we will be relocating our existing Winnipeg store to a more desirable location and we'll increase the size from 44 000 square feet to 70 000 square feet.
Our scheduled store openings for 2013 represent a 13% growth rate in Retail square footage.
We plan to open 2 next-generation stores during the first quarter in Columbus Ohio and Grandville Michigan.
In the second quarter we plan to open  one next-generation store in Louisville Kentucky along with our Winnipeg relocation.
In the third quarter we plan to open 3 next-generation stores with locations in Green Bay Wisconsin; Thornton Colorado; and Lone Tree Colorado.
In the fourth quarter we plan on opening another Canadian store in Regina Saskatchewan as well as 2 more Outpost stores one of which we have just announced today in Waco Texas.
We plan to announce the other Outpost store location in the near future.
In January we announced plans to add 2 next-generation stores in 2014 in Greenville South Carolina and Woodberry Minnesota.
This brings the total to 5 announced next-generation stores for 2014 with plans for up to 3 more domestic next-generation stores.
We are also planning on opening up to 3 new next-generation stores in Canada in 2014.
Our current locations have yielded outstanding results and we are very excited about further expansion of our Canadian footprint.
With regard to Outpost stores I am pleased to report that given the strong initial performance of our first Outpost store in Union Gap Washington our Board of Directors has recently approved funding for 10 new Outpost stores to be opened through 2017.
As a result we now expect to open up to 3 Outpost locations in 2014.
In addition to strong new store performance we also realized continued strength in comp store sales which increased 12% in the quarter.
The increase in comp store sales was broad-based as sales increased in 32 of our 33 comp stores.
For the quarter average ticket increased nearly 12.5% and transactions declined less than 1%.
Late in the quarter we experienced a surge in the sale of firearms and ammunition.
Assuming a more normalized firearms and ammunition growth rate comp store sales still increased at a mid-single-digit rate.
Multichannel customers increased 7.1% compared to the same quarter a year ago.
We are encouraged by the increase in the percentage of new customers we are seeing among firearms purchasers.
2 years ago about 16% of firearms buyers were new customers.
Over time this percentage has increased and in the fourth quarter of this year 21% of firearms purchasers were new to Cabela's.
This is extremely powerful as we now have an opportunity to market our entire product assortment to these new customers in future years.
Another benefit we are realizing as a result of the increased demand for firearms and ammunition is the positive benefit on our consumer franchise as we believe we are getting preferred allocation of high demand firearm and ammunition products.
Having these products more often than our competitors reinforces why we are the world's foremost outfitter.
For the quarter merchandise gross margin decreased 20 basis points to 36.2%.
The entire decline is due to a greater shift to lower margin firearms and ammunition.
The headwind from this adverse mix shift nearly doubled in the quarter.
In fact for the quarter merchandise margin increased in each of our 13 merchandise subcategories including firearms and ammunition.
Excluding firearms and ammunition merchandise margin increased 60 basis points.
Now let me turn to Retail profitability which is a key initiative in our Retail growth strategy.
For the quarter Retail profitability increased 110 basis points to 21.7% a new fourth quarter record.
This is the 15th consecutive quarter of Retail profit contribution improvement.
Improvements in Retail profitability were mostly due to our ability to further leverage labor cost in our Retail stores.
We were able to leverage Retail labor despite strength in firearms which is a more labor-intensive sale.
Another highlight of our Retail business with which we are particularly pleased is our customer satisfaction scores which reached a company record of 88.7% for 2012.
We are also pleased with the improved performance of our Direct business which saw sales increase 1.7% in the quarter.
Improvements in the Direct business were driven by a 2.8% increase in orders offset by a 1% decrease in average order size.
Visitors to cabela's.com increased 21% over the prior year quarter.
The success we are seeing in our Direct business was helped by significant investments in our Omni-Channel marketing strategy.
These investments are positively impacting all aspects of our business.
We are encouraged with the initial results in our Direct business and have numerous strategic initiatives to ensure we maintain and even grow our dominant market position in the Direct business.
Now let's take a look at our Cabela's CLUB Visa program which had another exceptional quarter.
We continue to see strong growth in average active accounts lower funding costs and improvements in delinquencies and net charge-offs.
For the quarter average active accounts increased 9.4%.
We also realized significant improvements in net charge-offs which were just 1.91% and are 21 basis points lower than charge-offs in the same quarter a year ago.
With the backdrop of low funding cost accelerating account growth and favorable delinquencies and net charge-offs we are very confident that the Cabela's CLUB Visa program will have a very strong performance in 2013.
Let's take a look at guidance.
So far this year our revenue and profit growth remains strong.
This growth along with the strong performance of our new stores makes us comfortable with the external earnings estimates for 2013.
This outstanding quarter and year has been a testament to the quality of our Cabela's Outfitters and the exemplary service they provide.
I want to personally thank each and every one of our Outfitters for their hard work dedication and effort in cherishing and delighting our customers each and every day.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance of our Cabela's CLUB Visa program.
Thanks Tommy.
Following up on Tommy's remarks we're very pleased with our fourth quarter performance including the particularly strong performance of our next-generation stores improvement in our Direct business and solid performance of our Cabela's CLUB Visa program.
For the quarter non-GAAP earnings per share increased 17.9% to $1.25 compared to $1.06 a year ago.
Fourth quarter 2012 non-GAAP reconciled items include impairment charges of $20.3 million primarily related to land held for sale and a $12.5 million reduction -- revenue reduction related to the Visa antitrust settlement.
Fourth quarter 2011 non-GAAP items include impairment charges of $7.8 million mostly related to the value of economic development bonds.
On July 13 2012 a Memorandum of Understanding was entered into to settle the Visa antitrust litigation.
On November 9 2012 the settlement received preliminary court approval.
The proposed several includes: a cash payment of $6 billion [ph] to class plaintiffs including Cabela's by Visa MasterCard; distribution to class plaintiffs including Cabela's of an amount equal to 10 basis points of interchange for a period of 8 consecutive months; and a modification of Visa's rules to prevent retailers to impose a surcharge on credit transactions which we at Cabela's do not expect to do.
As a result of the preliminary court approval we accrued the 10 basis point reduction in interchange income for our Cabela's CLUB Visa program.
We estimate the impact to be $12.5 million and recorded this liability as a reduction in interchange income in the quarter.
Upon final approval we expect that the company's merchandising business will benefit from this interchange reduction.
Additionally we expect to receive our share of the cash payment related to the settlement agreement.
Neither of these future benefits have been accrued.
We're very pleased with the performance of our next-generation and Outpost stores and expect to continue to grow Retail square footage at a 10% to 15% annual rate.
While we expect to fund most of this growth with cash flow from operations we're also taking a more aggressive approach to liquidate land held for sale.
As part of this process we received an appraisal on the majority of the property that we have held for sale.
The appraisal on some of our properties were significantly below our expectations.
However as a result of the appraisal and our new strategies to not develop our own real estate properties we wrote down the carrying value of these properties which accounted for almost 20 -- for most of the $20.3 million impairment.
We're optimistic we will ultimately sell the property for more than the appraised value.
We do not expect further significant write-downs on land held for sale.
For the quarter non-GAAP Financial Services revenue increased 7.2% to $83.2 million.
The increase in Financial Services revenue was primarily due to higher interest and fee income increased interchange income and lower interest expense.
For the quarter net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans improved 21 basis points to 1.91% compared to 2.12% in the fourth quarter last year.
Additionally we continue to see improvements in delinquencies.
Greater than 38 delinquencies were just 0.72% as compared to 0.87% a year ago.
Greater than 60 day delinquencies were 0.46% as compared to 0.53% a year ago.
And greater than 90 day delinquencies were 0.24% as compared to 0.27% a year ago.
Now let me highlight the future funding plans of our Cabela's CLUB Visa program.
Our next term securitization doesn't mature until January of 2015.
In the first quarter of 2013 we expect to complete a term securitization of $250 million to $500 million to fund growth.
And we expect to complete another term securitization during the second half of the year.
Additionally we will work to early renew one of our conduit facilities.
These facilities of which we have 3 all have 3-year terms.
By early renewing 1 of the 2 facilities that will mature in 2014 we'll have only 1 of our 3 conduit facilities mature in any 1 year.
Now let's turn to inventory.
Inventory increased 11.7% or $58 million year-over-year to $553 million.
The increase in inventory is mostly attributable to new stores.
We feel very good about our inventory levels.
Additionally the shot of cold weather we've seen so far in the first quarter has further helped clear winter inventory as we prepare for our seasonal spring roll late this quarter.
As a result we expect to have a very clean and efficient season roll.
Gift instruments and credit card reward points increased nearly 15.5% or $35.2 million over the same period last year to $263 million.
This cash flow is an often-overlooked benefit as the Cabela's CLUB Visa program pays for the points when earned rather than when redeemed.
For the full year cash flow from operations was $237 million and capital expenditures were $234 million.
With our accelerating store growth plans we expect full-year 2013 capital expenditures to be between $300 million and $325 million.
We ended the year with about $200 million of cash in our merchandising business.
This cash combined with our cash flow from operations which is expected to approach $300 million in 2013 should allow us to internally fund store growth through 2014.
Again this year Cabela's is authorized to repurchase shares to offset shareholder dilution resulting from granting of equity-based compensation awards.
The company intends to repurchase up to 750 000 shares of its common stock in open market transactions through February of 2014.
Now I'll turn the call over to Tommy for some final comments.
Thanks Ralph.
I hope you can all tell we are very pleased with our record financial results both for the fourth quarter and or the full year and in particular the strong performance of our next-generation stores and improvements in our Direct business.
We are also very excited about our future growth opportunities and making sure we cherish and delight our customers every day.
With that operator let's open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Reed Anderson from Northland Securities.
Research Division</strong> Tommy let's start with you.
Just kind of focusing on kind of the quarterly trend if you will.
Obviously a great comp number for the quarter.
I'm just curious though if you can provide a little context you maybe don't want to get too specific but just kind of how it progressed from a monthly basis because obviously you had a big sort of event in December to really ramp that up.
And then also though related to that from a margin standpoint I know coming out of 3Q you were planning to -- for a very promotional environment.
And if you strip off firearms and look what you actually did for margins it looks it wasn't quite as bad as you're thinking or you planned appropriately.
So just some commentary on that regard please.
Absolutely.
Reed I think one of the things we are very pleased with in both the Direct and the Retail channel is the consistency we had through the quarter.
In Retail October was a very good month.
November was even better.
And it's quite interesting now we're at the 14th of February it's like Black Friday is a distant memory.
We had a great Black Friday in both channels.
And we had a great Cyber Monday and Cyber Week in the Direct channel.
And in Retail we were comping over large numbers from the prior year.
So good consistency and particularly the consistency in the Direct business.
If anything has been a frustration it's been the lack of consistency as we've been working hard to improve the Direct business.
And we finally saw consistency during the fourth quarter from month-to-month.
And for those who follow our story we don't sell firearms in the Direct business.
So having consistency especially across the majority of our merchandise categories in both channels was very satisfying and I think a testament to everything we've been working on for 1.5 years.
As to margin we definitely signaled that we were going to be more promotional as we came in to the Black Friday through Christmas period.
As it turned out we elected not to be as price promotional but instead invest more marketing dollars and advertising dollars in what -- next to our employees our greatest asset as a company which is our customers.
So we saw business was better and we took advantage of the opportunity to spend several million dollars in enhanced media across the gamut of media that we use as well as some things that I'm not going to talk about for competitive reasons and that drove new customer acquisition up 9% in the quarter.
We had reactivation rates of 12% and I don't think we've had that since I've been with the company.
And retention was even positive.
So we think those investments albeit may not have flowed as much to the bottom line as we could've.
We think those investments short-term and long-term are going to pay off in market share for our company.
And we would do it all over again.
Research Division</strong> And that's great color.
And then related to your comments on Direct I was curious too because it was nice to see that grow finally again.
To the extent -- you don't sell firearms there but ammo is something I know you can sell Direct.
Was that a meaningful impact of growing that? Or was it actually just broadly speaking your Direct business was up? Broadly speaking the Direct business was very good.
Obviously we saw a surge in ammo very late in the quarter.
But the Direct business was good before that.
Research Division</strong> Okay super.
And then on inventories kind of approaching 12% growth there.
Given the comp you might -- some might think that's on the high-end of the expectations.
It's not out of whack but I guess my thought was given your spring lineup that maybe reflects some timing of receipts et cetera just some commentary on kind of quality inventory heading into the first quarter here.
Well let -- I'll take that Reed this is Ralph.
I got to tell you I'm going even back in time to the start of the fourth quarter our merchandising team particularly our gun and ammo team took a big bet on building up inventory going into the fourth quarter.
That in hindsight looks like a great decision.
So we feel very comfortable with where we are on an inventory level being able to service our customers.
And then as I alluded to in my comments with the colder winter we've had this year any excess inventory we carried over the past with respect to outerwear and cold-weather gear is -- we're quickly working through.
And although as a percentage increase it may seem more than we've had in past years we feel really good that we've got the inventory in the right places and took bets in the right places.
And I think -- further on that we're really seeing the benefit of that as we go into the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> That's excellent.
Then the last question I'll let somebody else jump in probably for Ralph.
On the interchange piece I mean I guess my thought coming in seeing the call reports said it was that -- I suspected that was the reason why but because the settlement is -- there's still a lot of people kind of not wanting to be part of it you don't have complete finality.
Was the idea behind booking that $12.5 million of that sort it's going to be at least be that number but it could change? Or is it for sure no more than that number? Well if the settlement -- we were in a unique situation just to give you some background on that.
Because we are not a charter member of Visa so we weren't a party to the suit necessarily.
And quite frankly we're a little surprised when we learned that we had some financial consequences as a result of that through a reduction in interchange.
So assuming the suit gets agreed to there is no more -- it can't get any worse than $12.5 million.
Now if -- I think the threshold is if 25% of the class of merchants agree not to take it that basically puts Visa and MasterCard and the merchants back at the table to renegotiate a new deal.
And since we're not a part of that deal I'm not sure I can really comment on it.
But assuming that less than 25% of the merchants opt out the $12.5 million is the most it can be.
And we'll take our next question from Seth Sigman with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the Direct business.
I mean what do you think is driving that consistency that you mentioned? And then I know you have identified a few areas to help improve the conversion online improve the site functionality your inventory integration.
I mean where are you with those efforts? And do you think that helps continue driving this positive growth as you look to 2013? Well Seth as we've talked on previous calls we focused our efforts in Direct in a number of areas first content improvement.
If you visit the site frequently you see much richer content.
And yet we're still only in the third or fourth inning of that improvement.
Our e-mail campaigns have been much more effective.
User navigation we've integrated some techniques to make our site simpler to navigate.
We've called out Cabela's branded merchandise and key items much more effectively.
During the holiday season we've always had door busters at our Retail stores but we had door busters online this year.
So I can't tell you it's one thing.
It's a whole lot of things that we're doing better.
And yet I think were only in the probably the fourth inning of the baseball game and we're just going to continue to improve.
If you go on the site today you'll see a major launch of our spring goods called Stitched In has very rich content calls out great items.
You'll also see we allowed our customers to go to the SHOT Show and the Archery Trade Show to see great new products when they occurred.
That drew a lot of traffic.
So just a whole lot of things.
One other thing on this consistency in earnings that Tommy should elaborate on is one of the things that this -- I'm sorry consistency in revenue both in comp store sales and the Direct business it really allowed us to plan earlier in the year earlier in the quarter and make some investment in our customers both by enhanced benefits of the bank and through additional advertising that we did that we think is going to really pay off as we go into the first quarter.
Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Maybe just shifting gears to the merchandise margins.
Excluding firearms where do you think that can go into 2013? And I mean maybe you can remind us of some of the initiatives such as price optimization and where you are with that.
Yes.
As we've signaled in prior calls we see tens of bps of increase going forward notwithstanding the -- whatever the impact is of mix.
I think we were very pleased in the 60 bps improvement in all other categories in the quarter which says -- I'm not certain I would expect 60 bps going forward every quarter but just in the spirit of continuous improvement we'd like to get tens of bps of improvement going forward.
The things that are driving that continue to be demand forecasting in-season management preseason planning this big time focus on Cabela's branded products and the elevation of our brand which I think you're really good see in spring softgoods and footwear with performance really being a focus in those products.
Price optimization will come later in the year.
As we've said we see what other retailers are counting as the benefit we'll see.
We haven't launched it yet so we'll keep you posted as we dig through the year.
But when we can increase margins even in firearms and ammunition in every other category in the biggest quarter of the year that should be a signal of really good progress in our company.
And we will take our next question from Rick Nelson with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to follow-up on the VISA settlement Ralph and whether that has implications for the interchange rate on a go-forward basis.
Well we're not planning on it.
I mean one of the things it can do is it can allow classes of merchants to negotiate directly with VISA.
So I mean there may be some pressure on it over time.
But one of the big things that this settlement does is assuming you're a part of that class you agree that you won't later sue VISA for interchange infractions for lack of a better word.
So other than the fact if they negotiate -- if large groups of merchants get together and negotiate lower fees we don't expect it to have much of an impact on interchange going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Also curious if you're able to break out the comp in firearms and on firearms categories in the quarter? Well we talked about that a little bit yes.
Not -- if you pull up firearms alone the comp was still around 7%.
So we feel -- I mean we feel pretty good about all of our other categories.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that definition of normalized firearm sales I'm wondering what goes into that and how you're planning 2013 if that's a normalized year or above or below? Well when we noted a normalized rate it was probably more a subjective measure with math applied to it.
To just give you a sense of what the surge may have impacted the business late in the quarter the comments that we would give you about the first quarter is that business is very strong and it has accelerated from fourth quarter levels in all channels.
And Rick 4 years ago we said how long is this going to last? And we're still saying it.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And I know you expressed comfort with the consensus estimates that are out there.
Curious how you're thinking about comp and how you're thinking about the Direct channel as it relates to the EPS comfort.
Well I think we built all of that into our expression that we were comfortable.
And we'll report to you as we dig through the year.
But I think the Direct business is still -- we're not declaring victory in Direct.
It's still early in our journey.
We've said it's going to be a couple of year process.
But I've got to tell you we were very pleased with the consistency in the business in the fourth quarter from month-to-month and pleased to see improvements as we gotten in into the first quarter but we still have a lot of work to do.
I mean Rick we feel -- it's probably hard to underestimate how good we feel about our business going into 2013.
We alluded to it in the press release so we've actually seen the business accelerate from fourth quarter 2012 levels.
Again we made some investments through the SG&amp;A line in the fourth quarter through additional advertising that we think are really paying off as we move into the first quarter.
Obviously there's been some increased demand which you see in the mix data and some of those other things.
I don't know how long that will continue.
But we continue to feel really good about our business and we're continuing to get an inventory and satisfy our customers' needs.
And especially Rick the performance in non-gun and ammunition categories we've just been very pleased that we're seeing improved performance across the enterprise.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's encouraging even with -- whether it compares -- whether it being another challenge for a lot of retailers.
Hopefully those will get repeated again.
And we will take our next question from Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had a question about the incremental advertising in the fourth quarter.
Was that targeted at the Retail or the Direct channel? And could you just talk about any changes in advertising in Direct and what impact it might be having on the sales growth? Matt the expenditure of several million dollars was done on an Omni-basis.
So Direct benefited and Retail benefited.
When you look at the segments and the point of all that Matt is the lines on advertising between Retail and Direct are getting much fuzzier.
Now having -- we made big investments particularly in digital advertising which does get charged to the Direct business.
But we made -- and so you see that in the press release the expenses were up in that segment.
But to Tommy's points the benefit of that spend goes across all channels.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then staying on Direct could you just talk about to the extent that you're okay talking about this from a competitive standpoint are there any major initiatives that are planned in the next few quarters in terms of site changes user experience et cetera? For competitive reasons I would ask you to give me a pass on the specifics.
But we're continuing to at a high level enhance targeted e-mail campaigns the use of self-mailers just ongoing improvements in our use of social media.
Our Denver office now has 8 or 10 folks there and they're already making a difference in both digital where to spend how to maximize SEO and also in trying to maximize social.
You're going to see a lot more content expansion online in the coming months.
Matt as we look at the balance of the year we're going to be strategic about the kind of investments that we opted to make in the fourth quarter.
And we'll measure how strong the business is and whether we need to make additional incremental investments in advertising and marketing.
But it's just continuing to get better at those thousand little things that you well know that best-in-class e-tailers do and we're making progress.
LLC Research Division</strong> So on a full-year basis should that business -- you talked about the acceleration in Q1 from Q4.
Should we expect the business to be up low-single digits for the full year? Is that a reasonable expectation? Well I'm not sure we can give you specifics.
We feel really good about of course -- and the only reason I'm hesitant to response is I mean our historical performance we've not had an up Direct business since the first quarter of 2010.
So having said that to get optimistic and start talking about specific numbers it just doesn't seem like the right time to do it.
But we feel really good about where we are and the fact we're up in the fourth quarter is encouraging.
Matt you may have missed an earlier question that I answered.
I'm not prepared to declare victory on one quarter.
But what we are prepared to say is that we're really pleased with the consistency of the 3 months in the quarter and the trends coming into the first part of 2013.
And we're just going to keep working on that consistency.
We did say Matt I think you might have alluded to this in your question that in the first quarter we've seen the business accelerate from fourth quarter levels.
So yes we are encouraged.
But I'm not -- nowhere near ready to declare victory.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just lastly on the Outpost stores.
Now that you have I guess 2 open can you remind us what the typical investment and the targeted sort of payback period is on those stores? Yes.
We got...
When modeled them we model them like our next-generation stores.
But we roughly got $10 million dollars in an Outpost store.
And we expected to get a return similar as a percentage to what we saw in our next-generation stores.
Early returns are really good and I think we'll have more to -- we really can't -- won't be able to get into a lot more depth until the end of the year when we've got more open.
But I think our early returns are encouraging.
And I know as you've know Matt because you been to our store openings it's pretty easy to get excited.
But Man when you saw the  pictures today from Saginaw Michigan it would give you reason to be excited.
It is snowing and cold in Saginaw.
And the crowd was estimated at over 3 000 people which is crowd size we would expect at a next-generation larger format store.
And we had CLUB day yesterday and it was pretty impressive.
And we will take our next question from Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the ticket the transaction's basically flat in the quarter it has been flat for some time.
And I just would've thought given the comp and demand for firearms that the transactions would've been positive.
Did you feel like maybe you were missing some sales not the right inventory or not enough inventory potentially in some areas? Just any comments on traffic or transaction would be helpful.
Well as you know we don't measure traffic we just measure transactions.
So I don't think we felt like we missed anything.
In fact Sean in 2011 we had nearly 60 000 people on Black Friday in front of our stores.
And that is an unwieldy number of people that we were a little more cautious this year in terms of trying to get that many people to the store.
And that may have had some modest impact on transactions just in that very big week.
But I mean as we finished the quarter and come into this year we're pretty pleased with where we are from a transaction standpoint.
The quality and passion of our customers is really showing through.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess maybe Ralph on the SG&amp;A side of things growth seems to be ramping up a little bit with square footage which I think makes sense.
But should we think about that line item moving forward? You've talked about some of the investments that you've made in digital and marketing.
Do you think that the run rate for that particular item should be roughly the kind of sales growth rate of whatever we're thinking about for the full year? Oh it's -- we're still -- we think we can still get leverage out of that.
I would view the fourth quarter as an anomaly.
You might remember early in the year we'd underspent on some advertising.
We wanted to make sure a big piece of this increase in the fourth quarter of the SG&amp;A line has to do with the additional advertising.
And we just wanted to make a real statement in fourth quarter and to our customers that we're around and available for business.
And we think some of that is going to have carryover benefit into 2013.
But I'm not sure I would expect to see the same increase that we saw in the fourth quarter as we move into next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that make sense.
And then just lastly anything -- how do we think about the potential impact on the P&amp;L specifically in the Financial Services component in a potentially rising interest rate environment here moving forward? Well there's no question one of the things we're trying to do is really lengthen the maturities of our debt in anticipation of a rising interest rate environment at some point in the future.
In a textbook case and we give you enough information to model this out about -- let me see about 30% to 35% of our cardholders pay us off in full every month.
We sort of view those as fixed rate assets.
The -- so the 65% of the people that pay interest pay us a floating rate based upon LIBOR.
Now the one thing we don't know particularly if rates would move up dramatically is -- does somebody's interest rate going from -- let's say they move up 400 basis points in a month that sort of shock it if somebody is paying 16% today and they go to 20% does that change their behavior? But from a contractual standpoint we're absolutely finding an upward movement in interest rate.
And actually because we've lengthened our reliabilities or in the process of lengthening our reliabilities assuming no change in customer behavior a short-term shock up in interest rates would actually be a benefit to P&amp;L.
And we will now go to Jim Duffy with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you speak to the directional performance of -- in the fourth quarter of some of the categories outside of guns and ammunition? You guys typically give some color on the other categories.
Yes Jim.
We saw obviously strength in shooting and firearms; the hunting categories were also very strong; camping and outdoor very strong; optics very strong.
As weather got colder we saw nice improvement in men's and women's softgoods which has carried into this year hence Ralph's comments about the cleanliness of our inventories.
And we had a really good ice fishing performance.
It came late but it came really hard once it got cold up in the upper Midwest.
There was a lot of ice and good performance there.
So we were -- the talk is always about guns and ammo but we were really pleased in both channels that the majority of our categories performed really well and continue to.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Good to hear.
And then Ralph can you speak to the margins in the Direct business? Was the margin change on a year-to-year basis a function of merchandise margin or the SG&amp;A? I'm sorry I'm not sure I understand you.
The improvement in profitability of Retail how much was margin how much was [indiscernible] ? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No no Direct.
On the Direct side Ralph.
Yes I'm sorry.
Ask the question again Jim.
I'm sorry.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the margins in the Direct business change on a year-over-year basis down a little bit was that a function of merchandise margin or SG&amp;A? No I'm sorry.
It was primarily related to SG&amp;A and it goes with the comment I had with Matt that we made big investments in certain marketing channels like digital that -- and historically get charged to the Direct business but we believe have an Omni-Channel impact across the whole company.
So it was primarily related to SG&amp;A.
Jim if you were watching our advertising in the quarter especially as we got into Black Friday through the end of the year the look and feel across all of our media it all said shop in store or online or call our call center.
So we took an agnostic approach to where the customer ultimately shopped.
But as Ralph said the historic allocations based on where we spent money dinged the Direct business a little bit more.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay good segue to my next question.
I'm trying to think about the SG&amp;A line and modeling that on a go-forward basis.
Higher than I expected in the fourth quarter it seems there was some -- maybe some pull forward of investments.
Is that something that if you see your comp slow or your Direct business slow that you're prepared to dial back to provide cushion to the earnings? Well yes absolutely.
We will make the right decisions for the totality of the company going forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then...
I'm sorry Jim to give you some more color on that.
Look we expect to leverage SG&amp;A over time.
I will tell you as it relates to advertising we probably underspent a little bit in the first half of the year.
It's hard to say you overspent but we spent a lot in the fourth quarter to try to make sure we are leaving a message with our customers that would resonate in 2013.
It may get -- I guess what I'm telling you is it may get lumpy on a quarter-to-quarter basis but as we move into '13 we expect to leverage it and we did leverage it in the fourth quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
I think I'm on board there.
And then also thinking from a modeling standpoint guns and ammunition by quarter is the percentage of volume higher in lower volume -- percentage of sales higher in lower volume quarters? Or maybe what are some of the relevant comparisons we should be thinking about with respect to '12? This has become a huge driver of the top line.
I want to try to make sure I'm getting it as correct as possible.
Well it is probably a bigger -- to your question it is probably a bigger percentage of sales I mean no question in the first and second quarter of the year which is historically lower.
But I'll also tell you this.
We're probably entering unchartered waters as it relates to gun and ammo sales.
So I'm not sure I can give you a lot of direction going forward.
But given the 4-year trend we've had where it's been up and then given the -- in the fourth quarter where you got very centric -- or is very centric towards outerwear and gifts there's no question it's bigger in the first half of the year.
Jim I want add one other thing.
What is very interesting that we've seen in the last 8 weeks is that firearms are driving record numbers of new customers to our company.
And if I can state with absolute confidence one thing we are very good at converting new customers into long-term customers that buy everything we sell.
It's interesting that as we look at attachment rates in the last 8 weeks or so there hasn't been a material change in attachment rates when someone buys a gun or buys ammunition.
That's been pretty consistent.
And remember that 80% of our baskets do not have guns or ammunition.
But what we're seeing is record numbers of new customers coming to us for those products.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> What do you mean by attachments Tommy? That would mean they bought a firearm and then added other things to their cart.
A T-shirt.
A T-shirt.
We haven't seen a meaningful change in attachment rates recently.
But we're getting lots of new customers.
And we will take our next question from Lee Giordano with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you just provide an update on the efforts to grow the women's and children's business? Is there anything new in the stores for this spring versus last year? Yes absolutely.
You'll see if you shop our stores or go online a record number of new product sets in women's and children and it goes from guidewear to outerwear to casual.
It's the most exciting launch of women's and children's clothes probably in the history of the company.
We're very very excited about it.
And women's and children continues to perform really well even before the launch of a really great and exciting spring lineup.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And can you just remind me what is the percentage of Cabela's branded product in the next-gen stores versus the Outpost stores? How much bigger is it in the Outpost stores? I don't have -- maybe Ralph has the number exactly off the top of his head.
But it's significant.
There are in the Outpost stores there is very little if any by category branded merchandise in the Outpost stores in softgoods.
And we will take our next question from Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tommy I want a follow-up on your comments on new customers and primarily new gun customers.
I don't know if you have any read through on if these are people who are buying a firearm for the first time or if they're gun people who are coming in because you're the only people who have what they want.
We don't know if -- we don't know the answer to that question basically.
If this is their first gun or their second gun we just know they're new to us.
And we were going to get our hooks in them pretty quickly.
And quite frankly I'm not sure it matters to us.
I mean it's an opportunity for us to get a new customer that we continue to service into the future and it's one of the reasons we're optimistic about '13.
And Mark what's really great is that we've worked really hard for a year to make our firearms purchasing process the simplest and fastest in the marketplace.
When a customer comes in that's new to us and has what I would argue is a materially different experience at the gun counter all the way through the processing of his paperwork we think that has a really positive long-term benefit.
And oh by the way might see other really neat stuff that he'll come back and buy.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean I guess I was trying to get a read-through on how much you'll be able to have the supply of stuff that people want as we look at the next perhaps 6 months of increased demand compared to a mom-and-pop shop down the road.
Well this is Ralph and I'll address that only because our team has been working very closely with the merchandising team to make sure that we manage payment terms to clearly send the message to the vendor community that we can pay your bills with do your business with us.
We've actually seen a nice flow of inventory continue to come in that we feel really good about.
Our merchants have done an unbelievable job of continuing to get merchandise and that's been a primary objective across the whole organization something that we're really focused on.
And we have the most of diversified supply chain for ammunition that we built in the last 4 years of anybody in the marketplace.
So not only do we have diversification of supply we also have the power of our balance sheet which is a -- it's a really powerful advantage in the world we live in today.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
Then can you guys comment on just internet sales within Direct internet sales and maybe a year-over-year delta? I mean I don't have the specific numbers I'll just tell you.
If you're defining an internet sale as how the order came through it is such a huge piece now of the Direct business it's hardly worth distinguishing the 2.
And it is continuing to grow.
What there is is continuing to grow and people that call our phone centers are continuing to decline at a rapid rate.
But it is -- the vast preponderance of that business is now internet.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then on the cost in Direct and kind of looking at margins did you change anything in kind of catalog cost in the number that you're sending out? Well we continued -- our circulation was actually up in the quarter pages were down which is a trend we've had for some time.
But as I said earlier we made significant investments in digital searches [indiscernible] paid search some of those kinds of things that was up in the quarter and caused our advertising expense to be up in the fourth quarter.
But we think those investments are really important in the fourth quarter and also important as we move into 2013.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then one last question just kind minutiae here on the other fee income in the credit card business was down a little bit here.
Is there anything to read into that? Or should we expect that to run at that $3 million to $4 million kind of per quarter? No.
I don't -- I'd have to go -- let me pull it up here real quick.
No I'm not familiar of anything in there that causes us concern one way or the other And we will take our next question from Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
If we're looking at the -- you gave a couple of numbers on the quarter without the guns in there or trying to provide a normalized look for -- look at the business what would you say the extra kick in guns and ammo sales in the quarter contribute to operating profit dollars? I'm not sure I can quantify that.
I'm not sure I can quantify what that is from an operating dollar perspective.
As we have talked a long time one of the things we're -- one of the things we don't know yet is to what extent people are taking purchases out of other areas of our store and moving them into guns and ammo.
One of the downsides with particularly with gun sales is the labor costs associated with a gun sale is pretty significant.
So it is much smaller contributor to operating income than a lot of other -- than a lot of the other categories of our store.
Ralph you mentioned that because the time that the Outfitter in the store is working with the gun buyer he's away from helping other customers? Absolutely.
And we've had this -- we've had to staff up to gun counters meaningfully just because of the increased demand.
Okay so it's incremental cost not just opportunity cost? Absolutely.
Yes it's incremental cost on lower margin categories.
All right all right.
So an interesting category.
And can you gentlemen comment on the Gander Mountain firearms store remodel that's about to open ahead of your Outpost store in Columbus or maybe at about the same time I don't quite member? Look they do what they do and we do what we do.
And we couldn't feel better about just how fantastic our location is in Columbus Ohio.
It is -- that is one of the best pieces of real estate we've ever been able to acquire.
And I've got great expectations given the visibility of that store and where it's located in prime shopping area.
And Gander can do and what Gander does and we love competing with them.
We've seen a trend of some of our competitors to try to fix up their stores in advance of us moving in so.
The one I can think of most recently was in Charleston West Virginia.
And I'll tell you if you were at that store opening nobody -- it didn't matter that our competitors remodeled their stores.
That store has been a huge success for us.
And we will take our final question from Anthony Lebiedzinski with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> I just wanted to first quickly clarify the earlier comment in regards to same-store sales.
I think Ralph you said that excluding firearms they were up 7%.
Now if you were to exclude firearms and ammunition what will be the same-store sales number for the quarter? Well if you totally excluded it which I'm not sure is fair but if you totally -- because of this issue with shift and the people want to pull firearms up.
but if you totally excluded just firearms it's about 7% and if you included just firearms and ammunition they'd be up around 2%.
LLC</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And also you had a shipping promotion for your Cabela's CLUB Visa customers free shipping until December 31.
Now you switched over to $5 flat rate shipping can you comment on the order trends that you've seen since you've made that switch? Yes I think I can give you some color on that.
Let's go back to earlier in 2012.
We made it very clear on a call that we were going to test a number of different kinds of offers as it relates to shipping offers.
And we tested free shipping in the second half of last year.
It did about what we thought it would do although there was a little more degradation to margin dollars and ultimately rate than we liked.
And just in the spirit of "Hey let's try something different and see what happens " we elected to move to $5 flat rate at least for the first half of this year.
We'll decide what we'll do in the second half a little later in 2013.
But we haven't seen a material degradation.
In fact what's been really interesting is free shipping to CLUB Visa customers attracted a lot of new customers to want to sign up for CLUB Visa cards.
And a concern we had when we went to $5 flat rate was that that trend would deteriorate.
It absolutely has not.
So we'll continue to test things.
The benefit that $5 flat rate gives us is that we can pulse other offers around it as needed.
So we have a little bit more flexibility with $5 flat rate but so far so good.
We said pretty clearly that the Direct business is -- has improved from Q4 rates.
So we're continuing to test and pretty pleased with $5 flat rate.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Millner at this time I will turn the conference back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Hey thanks everybody for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you again soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Inc.
First Quarter Fiscal 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Chris Gay Director Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call may include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Our record first quarter financial results validate that our dominant omni-channel model is working well and our next-generation stores continue to generate superior returns on capital.
For the quarter we realized strong growth in comp store sales increases in direct revenue higher merchandise margin operating expense leverage solid account growth in our Cabela's CLUB and exceptional performance from our next-generation stores.
During the quarter we realized very strong comp store sales in the month of January.
In February we saw comp store sales moderate to being up mid-teens.
When we issued our interim first quarter update in early March we expected continued moderation of comps through the end of the quarter.
However comps did not moderate further in the month of March and continued to be running at a positive mid-teens rate through yesterday.
This strong performance led the record first quarter results significant increases in market share and further increases in return on invested capital.
We continue to see exceptional performance from our next-generation stores.
For the quarter our next-generation stores continue to outperform our legacy stores in both sales and profit per square foot.
Additionally our next-generation stores are performing better than our legacy stores as they enter the comp base.
This is extremely encouraging as we continue to accelerate retail store expansion.
During the quarter we opened next-generation stores in Columbus Ohio and Grandville Michigan.
We also opened an Outpost store in Saginaw Michigan.
Each of these openings exceeded our expectations drawing thousands of customers at each event.
The ability of our new stores to coexist in markets near legacy stores without cannibalizing sales from legacy stores continues to be a positive development.
Earlier today we announced the location of 2 more 2014 next-generation stores.
To Alison Oregon a suburb of Portland; and Edmonton Alberta.
This brings the total to 6 announced United States next-generation stores for 2014 with plans for up to 2 more.
In addition to Edmonton we are also planning on opening up to 2 additional next-generation stores in Canada in 2014.
Our current Canadian locations have yielded outstanding results and we are very excited about further expansion of our Canadian footprint.
And finally we plan to open up to 3 Outpost stores in 2014 with sites yet to be determined.
These new stores represent 16% to 18% retail square footage growth in 2014.
In addition to strong new store performance we also realized continued strength in comp store sales which increased 24% in the quarter.
The increase in comp store sales was broad-based as sales increased in every one of our 33 comp stores.
While much of the comp increase was a result of strength in firearms and ammunition we realized double-digit comp growth in women's and children's apparel hunting apparel footwear optics and archery.
As a result of the strong performance in these merchandise categories comps excluding firearms and ammunition were up 9% in the quarter.
Given the strong demand and very tight supply of ammunition for competitive reasons in the future we will not report comp store sales or direct revenue growth excluding ammunition until the extraordinary demand for ammunition normalizes.
For the first quarter retail transactions increased 14% and average ticket was up 10%.
Multichannel customers increased 10% during the quarter.
We continue to see strong new customer growth from the strength in firearms purchases.
As we discussed last quarter these new customers create a great opportunity for us to convert these individuals into long-term shoppers with our proven marketing and retention strategies.
For the quarter merchandise margin increased 110 basis points to 35.6%.
Despite the headwind in consolidated merchandise gross margin related to the sale of firearms and ammunition strength in high-margin soft goods and footwear combined with fewer sales discounts and markdowns more than offset the mixed headwind.
Improved performance of Cabela's brand products combined with our recent implementation of net SKU profitability as well as our planned implementation of a price optimization tool later this year should drive future margin improvement.
Now let me turn to retail profitability which is a key initiative in our retail growth strategy.
For the quarter retail profitability increased 460 basis points to 17.4% a new first quarter record.
This is the 16th consecutive quarter of retail profit contribution improvement.
Improvements in retail profitability were due to higher merchandise margin and leverage of store labor and advertising expenses.
Our Outfitters are our greatest asset and our ability to generate record comp store sales while leveraging labor costs is a testament to the quality of our Outfitters.
Our omni-channel marketing strategy continues to improve our marketing effectiveness.
And we are realizing these improvements in both our retail and direct segments.
We're also pleased with the improved performance of our Direct business which increased 18.4% in the quarter.
Improvements in the Direct business were due to increased traffic to cabelas.com which drove a 12% increase in orders.
We also realized a 6% increase in average order size.
Our new advertising campaign It's in Your Nature has generated tremendous customer response across all aspects of our business and has created a strong emotional connection with our customers.
The recent success in our Direct business gives us confidence to make additional investments in this business in future quarters.
Additionally we will continue to develop and improve our omni-channel strategy as a means of connecting with our customers through all channels of our business.
Now let's take a look at our Cabela's CLUB which had another exceptional quarter.
We continue to see strong growth in average active accounts and improvements in delinquencies and net charge-offs.
For the quarter average active accounts increased 10.2%.
We also realized improvements in net charge-offs which were just 1.86% and are 14 basis points lower than charge-offs in the same quarter a year ago.
Now turning to guidance.
We are extremely pleased with our strong first quarter results and our ability to increase sales and margin while controlling cost.
Our retail stores are performing at very high levels and our Direct business is starting to show real improvement.
As a result we expect our outperformance in the first quarter to flow through to our full year results and we are comfortable with the current quarterly breakdown of external earning estimates for 2013.
The success we've seen through the first quarter is attributable to the dedication and quality of our Cabela's Outfitters.
I want to personally thank each and every one of our Outfitters for their hard work effort and passion in cherishing and delighting our customers each and every day.
As I turn the call over to Ralph Castner this is a big day for the big guy.
Ralph happy 50th birthday from all of us.
Thanks Tommy.
I had hoped you've forgotten that.
Following up on Tommy's remarks we're very pleased with our first quarter performance.
Including the particularly strong performance from our next-generation stores improvement of Direct business operating expense leverage and solid performance of our Cabela's CLUB.
For the quarter earnings per share increased 75% to $0.70 per share compared to $0.40 per share in the prior year.
Strong comp store sales along with excellent performance of our next-generation and Outpost stores led to a record retail revenue of $486.7 million an increase of 41% over the same quarter a year ago.
With our aggressive expansion of retail square footage and the excellent performance of our next-generation and Outpost stores we're looking forward to the road ahead.
For the remainder of 2013 we'll open 6 more new stores.
We opened a next-generation store in Louisville Kentucky 2 weeks ago and in May we'll relocate our Winnipeg store.
In the third quarter we plan to open 3 next-generation stores with locations in Ashwaubenon Wisconsin a suburb of Green Bay; Thornton Colorado and Lone Tree Colorado which are both suburbs of Denver; as well as a Canadian store in Regina Saskatchewan.
In the fourth quarter we plan on opening 2 more Outpost stores in Waco Texas and Kalispell Montana.
With regard to comp stores we'll have 3 next-generation stores entering the comp base in the third quarter of this year.
For the quarter Financial Services revenue increased 2.8% to $85.8 million.
Average credit card accounts increased 10.2% and average balance of credit card loans increased by 12.8% during the quarter.
Additionally we continue to see improvements in delinquencies.
Greater than 30-day delinquencies were just 0.73% as compared to 0.80% a year ago; greater than 60-day delinquencies were 0.45% as compared to 0.49% a year ago; and greater than 90-day delinquencies were just 0.24% as compared to 0.26% a year ago.
Now let me highlight the future funding plans of our Cabela's CLUB.
In the first quarter of 2013 we completed a 10-year securitization of $385 million to fund growth.
The securitization transaction included the issuance of $327 million of notes which accrue interest at a fixed rate of 2.7%.
As we look forward with interest rates at record low levels we will continue to focus on linking the maturities in both the securitization and the certificate of deposit markets.
This could put some upward pressure on interest expense over time as 10-year rates are about 200 basis points higher than current variable interest rates.
With our expected strong portfolio growth we believe locking in long-term liquidity and laddering maturities appropriately will create long-term value.
We do not expect to complete another term securitization during 2013 but will remain active in the CD market with a focus on 10-year maturities.
Our next term securitization doesn't mature until January of 2015.
Additionally at the end of March we early renewed our variable funding conduit facility with Bank of America.
These conduit facilities of which we have 3 all have 3-year terms.
The early renewal of this facility has allowed us to stagger the maturities of these conduits to only have 1 mature in any given year.
Now let's turn to inventory.
Inventory increased 13.7% or $74 million year-over-year to $613 million.
Most of this increase is attributable to new stores.
The strength in cold weather soft goods and footwear we realized towards the end of the first quarter allowed us to transition to our spring assortment with very little excess inventory from our fall and winter assortments.
We feel very good about our inventory position as we look forward to the spring and summer season.
Gift instruments and credit card reward points increased nearly 16.1% or $34.6 million over the same period last year to $249 million.
Accounts payable increased $131 million year-over-year.
Roughly $50 million of this as a Cabela's CLUB Visa payable to its processor FDR.
This is really a timing difference related to quarter end.
The remaining increase is due mostly to an increase in trade payables from the strong sales in construction payables due to store growth.
For the quarter cash flow from operations was $123 million and capital expenditures were $65 million.
With our accelerating store growth plans we expect full year 2013 capital expenditures to be between $300 million $325 million.
We ended the quarter with about $82 million of cash in our Merchandising business.
This cash combined with cash flow from operations which is expected to be $250 million to $300 million in 2013 should allow us to internally fund store growth through 2014.
During the quarter we repurchased 72.2 -- 72 200 shares of common stock related to our Board-approved 750 000 share repurchase program designed primarily to offset shareholder dilution resulting from the granting of equity-based compensation awards.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
As I hope you can tell we're very pleased with our record financial results for the first quarter and in particular the strong performance of our next-generation stores and improvements in our Direct business.
We're very excited about our future growth opportunities and making sure we cherish and delight every customer every day.
With that operator let's open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go right to our first question from Seth Sigman with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question I'm just curious if you can maybe discus what happened in February versus January and what kind of surprised you in March? Was it the result of any sort of internal or marketing changes? How are you thinking about the strength that you saw in March and then so far in April which categories maybe are outperforming? Certainly.
Probably to no one's surprise on the call January was just exceptionally strong both in Direct and in our Retail business.
We did see moderation in the month of February as supply tightened a little bit.
And we expected even more moderation in the month of March which ultimately didn't really happen.
So March just finished stronger than we thought when we talked to you guys on March 12.
It finished quite strong consistent with February.
And as I said in the prepared remarks we continue to see mid-teens comp performance April to date.
Just to add on to that as far as categories go I mean not surprising shooting and firearm have been strong.
But also we've been really pleased with women's and kids apparel and hunting apparel has been strong too.
What's interesting and the way we see as an opportunity going forward is the spring related merchandise categories: fishing marine camping and outdoors were pretty slow in the first quarter because of the weather and how cold it is.
But we think that represents pent up demand that we can experience in the second and third quarters.
Seth as we've said in our prior calls we have been working very hard for a number of years on the quality of our apparel and footwear assortments both in branded goods and even more in Cabela's branded products.
So as we look back on the quarter it's no surprise guns and ammunition were going to be strong in the first quarter.
I think the real story for our first quarter was just the really powerful response from our customers to our spring offering.
In the face of absolutely no warm weather almost anywhere.
So that was very encouraging.
Research Division</strong> Just on that point.
I think one of the concerns has been that firearms is just taking a lot of share of wallet at the expense of other categories but you had a 9% comp excluding firearms and ammo a very strong trend.
And maybe that's just it's not happening.
Either the whole category is rising or it's some of the internal changes that you said you're making or you're just taking a lot of share.
I mean was the right way to think about that? I mean clearly you're acquiring a lot of new customers.
I mean how do you think you can support the comps in the coming quarters even if the firearms do start to slow? Well I think the real key is to continue to have great merchandise priced fairly which is sort of a cornerstone foundational element of our company.
And if we can continue to attract and convert new customers it feels pretty good.
But our customers -- we didn't see a meaningful change in attachment rate on other products when a person came in and bought a gun or ammunition.
But we saw lots of new customers that obviously liked our merchandise.
I mean Seth in your question there's sort of a presumption that the firearms thing is going to slow down as we move through 2013.
But really since February after we got into some of the supply constraints we've not seen a meaningful change.
And then to your point on top of it there's some categories like archery and tree stands that really have nothing to do with firearms or shooting that are up really nicely.
And women's and children's clothing which is not a huge category but because the margin is so high that's another category that's done really well.
They don't have anything to do with firearms.
So our merchants have done a really nice job of getting relevant products for our customers and we're excited about that.
And next we have a question from Reed Anderson with Northland securities.
Research Division</strong> Tommy I think one -- just one follow-up to that last question then I've got some other ones you talked about kind of sales growth being very balanced in terms of not just firearms.
How about the margin gains? Were those also pretty balanced across category or did you have some opportunity on the firearms side just because there was no -- you probably had some pricing opportunity there too? Just curious.
No margins were consistently better across the board.
We take -- as you know Reed we take a long-term view of our relationship with our customer and didn't use the acceleration in firearms and ammunition demand to dramatically change pricing.
It was more the long-term increases that we had been able to get in those categories but not what I would call a gouging of price given the environment.
A commentary on margins Reed.
In preparing for the call we went back and looked at margins by quarter over the last several years and we always said that a big part of margin improvement was going to come through better planning better markdown management.
And in the first quarter was really where we had our biggest opportunity.
If you go back to 2010 the first quarter was more than 100 basis points lower than any other quarter and was 200 -- 260 basis points lower than the second quarter.
So it's probably not a surprise that over time we've got a disproportion in the amount of the increase in the first quarter.
And although we expect improvement for the latter part of the year I don't think we expect it nearly to the magnitude that we enjoyed in the first quarter.
But Reed that first quarter gain this 110 basis point as Ralph said the quality of our inventories because of preseason planning vendor collaboration in-season management and -- we haven't even -- we wont see the benefit of price optimization probably until some stub of the fourth quarter but then into 2014.
This is where it's making a difference and that's in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
Then shifting gears a little bit I mean we have -- there's been obviously supply constraints in the firearms piece for a while but really prominent on the ammo piece right now.
I mean even your stores and you've always done a great job Tommy of kind of being able to supplement a lot of it the nationally ran and stuff with some of your own private label to really get through that.
But even now that's challenging.
I'm just -- I mean you've been with this industry a long time I'd love to get your perspective on where are we when are we going to get some supply in there? And also is that in your mind having any impact on just driving demand in the core firearms piece? Because to literally it's to the point with people outside of you where they don't even have ammo if you buy a gun in some locations.
I'd love to get your perspective on that.
Sure absolutely.
First I appreciate your indulgence and others on the call in understanding as long as supplies are tight we would prefer not to disclose sales excluding ammunition in Direct or in comps until this sort of settles down and gets back to normal.
It simply competitively disadvantages us.
And so I appreciate the understanding on that.
We are -- I think we're in a better place than most because we started diversifying our supply base about 4 years ago not knowing any of this would ever happen.
Having said that supply is still tight.
It is still constraining ultimate demand because we simply -- in some categories like 22 caliber ammunition it's very very tight.
And I think the honest answer is I don't know when it's going to loosen up.
If the ammunition suppliers wanted to increase capacity it would take a pretty long time to do that to meaningfully change capacity because of machine lead times and training people.
And we'll just see but I'm really glad for Cabela's that we've diversified our supply base and we have a great balance sheet to do what we've got to do to get product.
And there are only a hand -- half a handful of companies in our -- in retail or wholesale that can do that.
Research Division</strong> One last question and I'll let somebody else jump in.
Ralph on the financial services piece it's a small line item but when you look at the customer reward cost going and it's kind of inched up it's 10 basis points up versus last year and last year was up like 40 basis points.
But I just want to make sure that you're still kind of managing that in relation to interchange income which has also been going up in proportion.
Just thoughts on that.
Yes and I'll probably jump in with another theme on financial services.
But there's not a lot going on with that line other than we continue to use our card program to build loyalty with our customers and come up with things like double and triple points and other programs like that which might continue to have rewards cost grow slightly faster than interchange revenue.
I think the big change you should look forward to at the CLUB and I mentioned this in my notes with rates being as low as they are we're going to aggressively go out on the long-term end of the liability scale and try to lock in both liquidity and long-term rates.
And to help you guys model that if we were to do $100 million that on a full year basis would cost current year earnings about $2 million for this year.
And we quite frankly expect to do hundreds of millions of dollars yet for the remainder of this year.
So as you're modeling or thinking about financial services revenue I think you should continue to see financial services revenue like you did in this last quarter but for a different reason grow slower than account growth just as that interest expense creeps up which as you know we record as negative revenue.
So the big transformation you're going to see over the next 12 to 24 months is as long as rates are low is an increased interest cost if we lock in those long term liabilities.
And Reed we view that as a long-term investment in our business as profitability.
And we may make some additional investments in the business.
The launch of It's in Your Nature has been nothing short of terrific.
So that's an opportunity to broaden that launch in the balance of the year.
And as we see more traffic moving from desktop to tablet devices we may accelerate some of that.
Hence our guidance being comfortable with current estimates in each of the remaining quarters.
Next we'll take a question from Rick Nelson with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I would like to ask about the non-gun and ammo comps.
The two just closed plus 9% that's an acceleration from what we heard last quarter.
How much of that Tommy do you think was stimulated by the gun and ammo traffic? And maybe a better way of asking that is if we look at that 9% comp how much of that had a gun and ammo purchase test to it? Well Rick we didn't see a meaningful change in attachment rates.
I think when you look at the categories in the quarter non-gun and ammo they did so well.
Women's and children I mean that doesn't have anything to do with the firearm and ammunition purchase.
Archery was a double-digit contributor in comp performance in the quarter.
That has nothing to do with guns and ammunition.
I think a number of things are at play here.
The first is our omni-channel muscle.
We are building and getting much better at driving traffic not only to dot.com but also to our retail stores.
I think that's making a difference.
I think having especially in apparel and footwear really great looking new products customers are coming in and buying those products.
So look do I expect a 9% comp in every other category in the rest of my career here? No probably not but it does speak to our marketing efforts are working together with great new products that don't have anything to do with guns and ammo.
And it's just working.
Research Division</strong> Also I'm curious subsequent to the Senate vote on background checks have you seen any impact on it since April it seems like it's off to a great start.
Yes we haven't seen a meaningful change post the Senate not taking action.
Research Division</strong> And finally if I could ask you about the lift that you're getting as the next-gen stores come into the comp base what sort of sales growth rate they are achieving? Well we mentioned in the call Rick that -- which is pretty interesting as -- that those stores at the end of comp base are actually comping above the chain as a whole.
So we feel really good not only about how our new stores are opening but actually as some of those begin to enter the comp base they continue to perform really well.
And next we'll take a question from Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to follow-up on that last topic in terms of marketing efforts that drove traffic in non-guns and ammo categories.
Is that primarily do you think the in Your Nature campaign or is it also e-mail campaigns or search engine marketing? Can you give us a little more color on sort of what's changed in marketing and then what we can expect on the website later this year? Well Matt I hope you and everyone else on the call are watching our progress on cabelas.com.
The changes in the user experience and navigation and content and just the impact of the splash page and then landing pages when you click through to a product they're pretty significant improvements with more to come.
I couldn't be prouder of what our web teams and marketing both here in Sidney and also in our new Denver office the impact that they're having.
And it's clearly making a difference.
The back office enhancements as I said last quarter in search engine optimization and e-mail campaigns for competitive reasons we're not going to go into very much depth on that but we're learning a whole lot and it's making a big difference in our business to include specifically how we are getting new to file customers really engaged with our brand and having It's in Your Nature which is good work I think everyone would agree to create that brand essence and that emotional connection with our company that's just frosting on the cake.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's great to hear.
And then secondly given the slower start to spring I think you sort of alluded to this but where you've seen a burst of warm weather do you see an immediate response in your fishing and camping categories where it's warmed up? And given the slower or the shorter season that we may have this year do you need to do anything in terms of inbound receipts or do you feel like you could still get full sell-through on what you've ordered? No I think we can get full sell-through.
We had 6 8 inches of snow here in Nebraska just last week and it looks like it's going to be a 70-plus degree weekend across most of the Midwest and Pacific Northwest and the Northeast which is really important for us.
I would expect we see a pretty good acceleration of spring goods soon but it's been cold everywhere.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes crazy weather.
And then just 2 -- a couple of modeling questions and then I'll turn it over to somebody else.
Given the strong sell-through that you mentioned of winter merchandise I would assume there's very little mark down in those categories required for 2Q.
How much upward pressure could we expect on gross margins related to that? And then secondly as the next-gen stores enter the comp base in Q3 for modeling purposes is it fair to assume that they're kind of in the mid single-digit range when they enter the comp base? Well let me address your first question first.
I'll just remind you that a year ago margins in the first quarter were 34.5%.
In the second quarter they were 37.4%.
So they were almost 300 basis points better.
So we're actually looking at Q2 as a really tough quarter to try to get gross margin expansion by.
And for what that's worth Q3 is 37.2% and Q4 a year ago was 36.2%.
So I wouldn't look for a lot of gross margin expansion maybe not in any of the 3 quarters for the remainder of the year.
The second question was how the comps are entering the comp base.
I mean we commented they've consistently been better than the chain as a whole.
So they continue to comp nicely as we go in.
I'm not sure I can give you any more color on that.
But as more stores enter the comp base -- actually there's 2 things you're going to see.
First of all it should help comps which is obviously a plus and we all need to remember as we're looking at new store productivity that we're going to get more and more stores into the comp base.
So sort of as we define new store productivity that will come under some pressure only because we're going to have more and more of the next-generation stores in the base.
And next we'll take a question from David Magee with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question regarding the exclusive merchandise the Cabela's exclusive stuff how it's growing versus the other non-guns and ammo merchandise and what does the pipeline look like for the balance of the year? Well I would say a nice component of the 9% comp was in Cabela's branded women's children's hunting apparel footwear and other related categories.
So David we couldn't be more pleased that all the hard work our merchants and our supply chain our supply team and our partners our manufacturing partners are really delivering great merchandise.
We have some really great launches coming this fall in even more innovative products in core apparel and camo and outerwear and footwear.
And it's the stream of innovation that we started working on 3 years ago that has really started to bear fruit and I think elevated us in the marketplace nicely.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So that merchandise is growing faster than the balance of the products? No I wouldn't say that but they're both growing at really great rates as witnessed by the comp.
Our next question comes from Jim Chartier with Monness Crespi Hardt.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My first question did Direct see any gross margin improvement in the quarter? And I know that's been -- that has kind of lagged improvement in retail.
As you get more traffic to the site how do you think about trying to expand the gross margin there? It was flat.
And that would be mix driven I think Jim.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you've talked about acquiring a lot of new customers with the firearm purchases.
Are you -- is it too early to tell if those customers are returning to the stores as repeat customers? Yes.
I think it's too new to state it with absolute certainty but history would indicate that we're pretty good at retention and reactivation.
In fact in the quarter reactivation was up 16.9% activation of new accounts was 9.1%.
So we're pretty pleased.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then thinking about marketing expense for the rest of the year similar to fourth quarter last year do you think you'll reinvest into more marketing if business continues to be good? I think as we go throughout the year we'll continue to make significant investments in marketing particularly in the second and the third quarter.
Tommy touched on what a lot of those are It's in Your Nature mobility continued support of e-mail campaigns and our Direct business.
But yes I would expect there to be continued investment particularly in Q2 and 3 in the marketing effort.
Our next question comes from Lee Giordano with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> I know it's still fairly early but can you provide an update on the Outpost store out in Washington and how that's performing relative to your expectations? Yes Lee we're really pleased with how both of our Outpost stores are performing.
Saginaw was just terrific and Union Gap we're just very pleased and we're learning a lot that we will apply to the ensuing 3 4 stores that we open.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then secondly can you talk about what's really driving that improvement in the soft goods business? Is it just better merchandise better merchandising is it a combination? I guess give us a sense of the sustainability of those improvements? Well some things I'm really comfortable about the sustainability of being able to innovate not just in the product but how those products are merchandised on our website and even more in our retail stores.
We were just in Grandville Michigan last week and then we were in Saginaw.
And just the visual presentation of great-looking new merchandise it didn't surprise me why we were doing so well in those categories.
We've just come a long way in our ability to present great product at retail.
And we'll take our next question from Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> On the Direct business can you talk about how that growth was able to ramp so aggressively in Q1? And I guess just thinking down the line here are we declaring victory here now and we're going to start seeing growth or is it still potential couple of million dollars hit to that business as you open up a new store? I don't think we're prepared to declare victory but it's certainly feeling better.
And I think we'd keep working on store to door which will come later this fall and we'll see.
But we're not declaring victory.
We said this is a long path of improvement but we're very encouraged with where we are today.
Research Division</strong> Any particular categories on Direct that are driving the improvement there? And then I guess as a follow up there again do you still think there's a few million dollar hit every time you open up a new store or is that not seem to be happening as much...
No there's no question there continues to be a hit every time we open a store.
The Direct business probably -- well certainly more than retail was affected positively by ammunition.
Ammunition was a big contributor to the growth rate.
However women's and kid's did very well in the Direct business also.
So we are -- I would tell you we're seeing similar to what we're seeing in retail we're seeing those other product categories do better in the Direct business than they have but ammo has been more impactful to the Direct business than firearms and ammo have been to Retail.
And it's not a change due to attachment rate.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just on the sourcing front you talked about some of the things you're doing up front with giving vendors better visibility and better mark down rates but are you seeing anything -- did you see any benefits in cost in Q1 compared to last year? I guess how are the orders looking for the back half of 2013 in terms of the costing fund on the merchandise? We're not seeing anything that's of concern on the costing front at this particular point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it feels relatively manageable.
Then I guess just lastly is there anything on -- can lower diesel costs actually be a little bit of a benefit for you as well? Can that move the needle at all as we move through the rest of this year? Well I think it's clearly a positive from a supply chain standpoint but I wouldn't call it material or a needle mover.
It's just a nice to have.
And we'll take our next question from Jim Duffy with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was going to ask if you could highlight some of the things the merchants have done differently in the categories other than firearms and ammunition but it seems your emphasis on improved quality really seems to be driving sales there.
Is there any way to quantify if ASP has been a driver of comps in those categories other than firearms and ammunition? And if so how much? Well I don't have the data in my fingertips Jim.
I don't think ASP was a big driver in the comps.
Nor do I Jim.
It was just really great reaction to our new spring assortment.
I mean you get it and I think Tommy disclosed these but you do get some sense of that on transaction versus tickets where transactions were up 14% and tickets were up 8% in retail.
So clearly it was clearly mostly transaction-driven and a lot of that average ticket is just as people shift into firearms that has such a high average ticket that causes a fair amount of the average ticket increase.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And historically you guys haven't had traffic counters.
Have you done anything to measure traffic more recently? No.
No.
And we'll go next to Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to circle back on just a couple of quick things.
First just looking at the Direct.
Can you guys quantify -- not direct ammunition? It was up 2.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And secondly I don't know if you can quantify any pricing on -- pricing increase taken on firearms and ammo? A little little bit but that was not a big driver.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then another here.
Just as we look at kind of regulatory issues as we look at any states that may have passed some laws.
It looks like at the federal level there won't be any changes here just how we can view any changes and anything else out there on the horizon that we should be keeping our eye on? Well perhaps it would be helpful for you to know what happened in Connecticut.
In the days ahead of the signing of Senate bill 1160 on April 4 you would imagine there was some pull forward of demand in ammunition and firearms.
And then it sort of softened and kind of moderated.
After that until yesterday it's still a pretty good level.
Obviously in Connecticut there are a lot of fishermen a lot of hunters.
There's are 50 000 hunters they're campers and the store is still performing at a mid- teens rate through April after the legislation was signed.
And I don't mean to minimize the impact of the legislation because it certainly did have some effect but we'll see going forward but that was the big example we have.
And in Colorado not a big meaningful change not much different from what I just told you.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then looking North of the border.
It's a little harder for some of us to track any regulatory issues there.
But 2 things on firearms and ammunition have you seen any changes there either in demand or in regulatory issues? And secondly any update on where we are on your credit card on the CLUB Visa in Canada? No.
No changes up North.
In fact up North there has been the dismantling of the National Registry because it didn't work.
In fact in Canada Mark we can actually shift firearms in our Direct business in Canada.
A customer has to have proof of an authorization card that they get from the government.
So we don't see any change in the regulatory climate in Canada.
Just to add onto that interestingly we have seen a slight increase in firearm sales in Canada but not nearly to the extent that we've seen in the U.S.
And yes you also ended your question with CLUB Visa That's still a priority for us it will be a while.
Nothing in -- we would be lucky to have something in '14.
And our final question today comes from Anthony Lebiedzinski with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> First as far as the breakdown of same store sales excluding firearms and ammunition that was helpful with the 9% increase.
To put things in perspective could you just tell us what the comp sales increase was for those categories in first quarter of last year? I don't have that in front of me.
We can get that number.
LLC</strong> Okay all right.
And also kind of the '13 merchandise sub categories were up.
Could you just tell us what you were disappointed with? Yes it was all it was the -- any spring merchandise like fishing camping and boats.
With the cold -- most of the lakes in Minnesota were frozen even into last week and the week before.
So the only categories that were challenging that we would have normally seen a lift in in the month of March were fishing camping and power sports and marine.
LLC</strong> So anything related to the warm weather? Yes absolutely.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So in markets where you've had more seasonably good weather what's the performance of those categories? They're doing fine.
But remember most of our markets are Northern markets so we're talking about Arizona even Texas has been cold and Louisiana.
And most everything that's north of that has been cold.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session today.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for any further or closing remarks.
Thanks again for joining us today and we look forward to talking to all again very soon.
Thanks.
And that does conclude our conference call for today.
We'd like to thank you again for your participation and wish you a wonderful afternoon.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Incorporated Second Quarter Fiscal 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn conference over to Chris Gay Director Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived in our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call may include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Our record second quarter financial results validate that our omni-channel model is working well and our next-generation stores continue to generate superior returns on capital.
For the quarter we realized strong growth in comp store sales increases in direct revenue higher merchandise margin solid account growth in our Cabela's CLUB and exceptional performance from our next-generation stores.
For the quarter our next-generation stores outperformed our legacy stores in both sales per square foot and profit per square foot by more than 40%.
For the second quarter there were 12 next-generation stores open for the full quarter compared to just 6 open for the full quarter in the second quarter last year.
We are extremely pleased that both sales and profit per square foot at our next-generation stores have remained at these extraordinary levels as we continue to add additional next-generation stores to the base.
Further confirmation on the success of our next-generation stores can be seen in how these stores perform upon entering the comp base.
As next-generation stores enter the comp base they continue to outperform.
For the quarter comp store sales of our next-generation stores were roughly 600 basis points above the consolidated comp.
These metrics give us significant confidence as we continue to accelerate retail store expansion.
For the quarter consolidated comp store sales increased 10.5%.
The increase in comp store sales was broad based as sales increased in 10 of 13 merchandise subcategories and in all but one of our comp stores.
The one store that did not comp was our Dundee Michigan store which was closed for 10 days following a small light-fixture fire.
Fortunately no one was hurt.
The night staff was on hand reacted quickly and was able to extinguish the fire before it did major damage.
If the store had not been closed it too would have comp-ed positively.
Excluding firearms comp store sales increased 9%.
While much of the comp increase was a result of strength in firearms and shooting we realized double-digit comp growth in hunting apparel archery and optics.
During the quarter we opened a next-generation store in Louisville Kentucky and relocated our Winnipeg store.
Each of these openings exceeded our expectations drawing thousands of customers at each event.
Today we announced plans to open 3 new U.S.
stores in 2014: a next-generation store in Acworth Georgia northwest of Atlanta and 2 Outpost stores one in Missoula Montana and the other in Augusta Georgia.
We also announced plans for another Canadian store in Barrie Ontario which will also open in 2014.
This brings the total to 13 announced stores for 2014 with the possibility of announcing one more Canadian location.
These new stores represent 16% to 18% retail square footage growth in 2014.
We are very excited with our 2014 new store lineup.
For the quarter merchandise gross margin increased 30 basis points to 37.7%.
Despite the headwind in consolidated merchandise margin related to the sale of firearms and shooting strengthened high margins softgoods in footwear combined with fewer sales discount and markdowns more than offset the mixed headwind.
Merchandise margin performance in the second quarter is within the range of how we expect to perform in the future.
Now let me turn to retail profitability which is a key initiative in our retail growth strategy.
For the quarter retail profitability increased 30 basis points to 18.8%.
This is the 17th consecutive quarter of retail profit contribution improvement.
Improvements in retail profitability were due entirely to higher merchandise margin as we invested in increased advertising as well as additional store labor to better serve customers.
We are also pleased with the improved performance of our Direct business.
For the quarter Direct revenue increased 13.7%.
Improvement in the Direct business was due to the increased traffic to cabelas.com.
As we mentioned last quarter with the tremendous success of our new advertising campaign It's in Your Nature and our strong financial performance we expected to make additional investments in national brand advertising and direct marketing.
For the quarter we more than doubled national brand advertising compared to the prior year quarter.
As we move through the second half of the year we will continue to evaluate the levels of this additional marketing spend and expect to adjust accordingly as the second half of the year unfolds.
Turning to SG&amp;A.
In addition to higher advertising and marketing spend in our Direct segment we also made investments in our Retail segment.
We spent an additional $4.6 million on comp store labor to enhance customer experience and incurred $2.4 million of additional preopening expense each compared to the prior year quarter.
Operating expense in our other segment increased mostly due to additional spending on IT projects investments in Canada to fund continued growth and higher distribution cost to support strong sales in the quarter.
We continue to closely monitor operating expenses and expect to leverage these expenses in both the third and fourth quarters as well as for the full year.
Recently we've implemented a net SKU profitability tool powered by Acorn Systems.
We're very excited about the visibility this tool will provide by product below the gross margin line.
Acorn Systems is a leading software provider in this area and we expect this initiative to yield benefits for many years beginning in 2014.
Now let's take a look at our Cabela's CLUB which had another exceptional quarter.
We continued to see strong growth in average active accounts and favorable delinquency and charge-off trends.
For the quarter average active accounts increased 10.7% and charge-offs remained at extremely low levels and were just 1.87% in the quarter.
Now turning to guidance.
We are pleased with our strong second quarter results and the investments we've made to ensure the future health of our company.
Our retail stores are performing at very high levels and our Direct business is continuing to show improvement.
As a result we are comfortable with current external earnings estimates for the third and fourth quarter of 2013.
Our success through the first half of the year is attributable to the superb efforts put forth by our Outfitters.
I want to personally thank each and every one of our Outfitters for their hard work effort and passion in cherishing and delighting our customers each and every day.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance of our Cabela's CLUB.
Thanks Tommy.
Following up on Tommy's remarks we're very pleased with our strong second quarter results including the particularly strong performance from our next-generation stores improvement in our Direct business and solid performance of our Cabela's CLUB.
For the quarter earnings per share increased 31.9% to $0.62 as compared to $0.47 in the prior year quarter.
Retail revenue increased 25.8% over the same quarter a year ago led by the exceptional performance of our next-generation and Outpost stores.
The strong performance of these new stores strengthens our confidence as we continue our retail expansion.
Direct revenue increased 13.7% to $180 million compared to $158 million in the same quarter a year ago.
The growth in the Direct business is a direct benefit of our omni-channel strategies and increased marketing spend.
For the quarter financial services revenue increased 11.7% to $89 million.
The increase in financial services revenue was primarily due to higher interest and fee income as well as interchange income.
Average active credit card accounts increased 10.7% and average balance of credit card loans increased 12.9% during the quarter.
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans remained consistent with the prior year quarter rising a single basis point to 1.87%.
Additionally we continued to see improvements in delinquencies: greater than 30-day delinquencies which is 0.66% as compared to 0.73% a year ago; greater than 60-day delinquencies were 0.39% as compared to 0.43% a year ago; and greater than 90-day delinquencies were 0.20% as compared to 0.23% a year ago.
For the quarter we reduced our allowance for loan losses by $2.2 million as we continued to see historically low charge-off rates.
Should charge-off and delinquencies remain at these historically low levels we may realize further reductions in allowance for loan losses in the second half of the year.
For the quarter financial services interest expense increased 25.6% to $15.9 million as compared to $12.7 million in the same quarter a year ago.
As previously discussed we made a conscious effort to lengthen our maturities and lock in historically low fixed rates.
As a part of this strategy we completed a 10-year $327 million term securitization at a rate of 2.7% in February this year an addition [ph] of nearly $240 million of 10-year CDs.
With the recent increases in 10-year interest rates we do not expect to complete another 10-year fixed-rate term securitization this year.
This strategy increased interest expense in our Financial Services business by more than $2 million in the quarter.
Recall that in the fourth quarter of 2012 we recorded a liability of $12.5 million as a result of preliminary court approval of a Visa antitrust settlement.
Since that time a group of plaintiffs have opted out of the proposed settlement.
Accordingly we reevaluated the impact of the 10-basis-point reduction of default interchange income and determined that the estimated liability for the proposed settlement should be reduced by $1.2 million.
We recognized $1.2 million as interchange revenue in the quarter.
During the quarter we incurred impairment and restructuring charges of $937 000 related to the closure and relocation of our Winnipeg store.
Now let's look at the tax rate.
For the quarter more effective tax plan as well as a state income tax settlement in the second quarter a year ago led to a tax rate reduction which is expected to continue to some extent.
As a result the tax rate in the quarter was 30.5% compared to 35.9% in the year-ago quarter.
With our continued international expansion we expect the effective tax rate to be between 32.5% and 33.5% for 2013 with similar rates in 2014.
Parent company interest expense for the second quarter was $3.9 million compared to $6.4 million in the same quarter a year ago.
The second quarter a year ago was impacted by additional interest expense from a tax settlement.
As we are accelerating retail square footage we have seen an increase in capitalized interest associated with new store construction.
For the remainder of 2013 we expect interest expense to be between $4 million and $5 million per quarter.
Later this morning we'll open our fifth new store of the year in Ashwaubenon Wisconsin a suburb of Green Bay.
For the remainder of the year we will open 5 more stores.
In the third quarter we'll open next-generation stores in Thornton Colorado and Lone Tree Colorado both suburbs of Denver and a Canadian store in Regina Saskatchewan.
In the fourth quarter we plan on opening 2 Outpost stores one in Waco Texas and one in Kalispell Montana.
With regard to comp stores we will have 3 next-generation stores entering the comp base in the third quarter of this year.
Now let's turn to inventory.
Inventory increased nearly the same rate as merchandise sales at 20.6% or $119 million year-over-year to $696 million.
This increase is a result of 7 store openings since the second quarter a year ago combined with the inventory planning and allocation for the store openings I previously mentioned.
Inventory turns improved to 3.1x on a trailing-4-quarter basis and we're very comfortable with the quality of our inventory.
Accounts payable increased $64 million year-over-year.
The increase is mostly attributable to increased inventory purchases as we gear up for 6 store openings in the third and fourth quarters.
Additionally there are increases in unpaid expenses related to retail expansion and construction.
For the quarter cash flow from operations was $60 million and capital expenditures were $70 million virtually all the cash we have as held in our Financial Services subsidiary.
At quarter end we have $55 million outstanding in our line of credit.
With our accelerating store growth plans we expect full year 2013 capital expenditures to be between $300 million and $325 million.
Cash flow from operations is expected to be between $300 million and $350 million for 2013.
We expect to utilize a small amount of external financing in 2014 at the parent company.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
We're very pleased with our record financial results for the second quarter and in particular the strong performance of our next-generation stores and improvement in our Direct business.
We're very excited about our future growth opportunities and making sure we cherish and delight every customer every day.
With that operator let's open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Reed Anderson with Northland Securities.
Research Division</strong> Tommy just to kind of start off where you finished up with your remarks on the next-gen stores performing exceptionally well particularly on a comp basis will you kind of peel back the layer of the onion there and look at what's driving that? Could you maybe give a little more detail? Is it particular categories? Is it more on the softgoods side? What are you seeing the best performance in those next-gen stores? Well Reed the simple answer is that the penetration by category in next-gen stores is not different than in legacy stores.
So there's nothing going on from a product category standpoint that's driving the improvement.
It's just the quality of the presentation.
We've got more vertical merchandise presentation and it's just making a big difference.
I think what we were very pleased about in the quarter.
It's easy to say well that the next-gen stores in the comp base there's one of them and it was 600 basis points better.
But when it's a data point of 5 stores that becomes more of a real meaningful data point that just encourages us even more that we've got the right store format for the future so long as we pick great locations.
And we seem to keep doing that.
Research Division</strong> Yes so that makes sense.
In terms of the store openings you kind of continue to see that number accelerate and that's terrific.
I'm curious from an execution standpoint just anecdotally it seems like you're getting faster better at opening stores.
By necessity you kind of have to but can you speak to the team you've got and your ability to continue to see that hold up what you've got for a pace and even accelerate a little bit? Well I don't see us accelerating a lot more than that 12 to 14 stores a year.
That's kind of in our sweet spot.
Mike Copeland and his team have got a great manager-in-training program.
We've beefed up our preopening teams.
We've actually been able to cut a significant amount of time to get the stores open from end of construction to grand opening.
And time is money so that's pretty important.
But I think we're in a really good sweet spot in terms of number of stores and our ability to execute.
And we just keep getting better with repetition to no one's surprise.
Reed to your question as we look out into 2014 and further we've made a conscious decision to sort of limit store growth at let's see about 14 stores per year.
And we'll be going -- we'll be taking a small step function between '13 and '14 going from about 12 to 14 stores.
But it will level off at about 14 stores a year mainly because we just -- as you know Cabela's is all about customer experience and we think anything faster than that could jeopardize customer's experience.
But we feel really good about a pace of 14 stores for probably 2014 through 2016 or '17.
Research Division</strong> Sounds great.
Tommy from a category standpoint one you called out was optics and I know that -- it's not a huge category per se but it's a category I know you've done a lot on the merchandise and product side really built out some great features in your own branded product.
So what I'm -- my question is as you look at that and the success you've had there thinking that you're coming at that category though really offering great quality at a very good price point is that a category that you have headroom to pricing? Is that something we should think about in that category for you for your brand? Well thanks for the compliment on the product.
The merchants have done a great job and our operations folks have done an equally good job in presenting the product on the floor.
But the combination of improvements in the Cab Euro line of binocular spotting scopes and sports optics together with some really great products from our branded vendors has all kind of come together to create a lot of momentum in the category.
And I don't think there's any doubt that we're outperforming the broader market in optics.
So I think there's upside in that category Reed.
It's a growing category and we seem to be very good at selling it both on the floor and from an assortment standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Good.
And then my last question is I just got your best of fall '13 book in the mail the other day and just flipping through here I mean the presentation kind of the way you showcased product I mean it's just tremendously better I think than it was even a year or 2 ago.
So like as you think about there -- as I think about that relative to the now another great quarter on the Direct business you think that's a key to why you're doing better there Tommy? Is that you're just better at merchandising it? Or are there are other drivers products et cetera? How do you think about that and the sustainability of going direct like we've seen last couple of quarters? Well I think it's -- we went on this path of omni-channel in our print to digital transformation 18 months ago.
And we said it was going to take some time and we were in early innings.
I would say we're probably still in the fifth inning.
We have definitely gotten better at presentation in catalogs consistency of presentation across all channels.
So our retail flier looks like the splash page of our -- of cabelas.com and the presentation and signage in the store all work together which is a dramatic change from the past.
And then we're making leaps-and-bounds progress in content on .com in navigation and that's beginning to make a difference.
Our Foothills team in Denver is teaching us so much about social media and how to interact with a new generation of consumers that are coming.
But I'd still say we're in the fifth inning and I don't want there to be any sense that on the strong 13.7% performance in Q2 in Direct that we're declaring victory.
We are not.
Our long-term expectations in Direct are still in that up low-single-digit range.
Although I got to tell you we believe our ability to do that.
Our confidence is continuing to improve every day that that's a reality.
And then one last thing we did spend a little more money in IT.
A lot of that was in our digital transformation initiatives and what that means is having a robust mobile platform that mirrors the experience of going to a desktop to buy from us which is not the case today.
That is absolutely on track for fall implementation as is our store to door fulfillment.
So that if you see a product online and we have it in a store we don't tell you no we actually ship it to you.
We are on track there.
So lots of good things going which buoys our confidence a lot.
But believe me we're not declaring victory yet.
And we'll take our next question from Seth Sigman with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So just a follow-up on that Direct question.
Last year I think you tested a free shipping promotion.
If I remember correctly you lost some shipping revenue.
It may have hurt some non-CLUB Visa sales how do I think about that as you start lapping that in the third quarter this year? Well that's a really good question Seth.
I think the only month that's more challenging is in the month of July.
And I'll give you a little color on where we are in July.
Retail comps are in the mid-single-digit range which is slightly above our internal forecast.
And then the Direct business is up slightly which again is also above our internal plan.
This is the -- July is the first month that we lap free shipping from last year and it's frankly the only month we see those kinds of headwinds in Direct.
As we go forward the $5 Flat-Rate offer has been really good for the business because it allows us to pulse free-shipping offers around the $5 Flat Rate for CLUB members.
So we're going to continue $5 Flat Rate definitely through the end of this year and then we'll look into next year.
But we really like what we're seeing.
We're getting as many CLUB attachments.
There's been no degradation there.
So it was a really great change.
We feel really good as far as July goes we feel really good about the Direct business.
That we're comping up over what was a very strong month a year ago because of the roll out of free shipping.
And Seth we feel really good about the quarter.
We're off to a good start and are pretty pleased with where we are 3 weeks in.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And those trends that you mentioned how do they compare to the end of the second quarter? Basically how did the quarter shake out in terms of you were running mid-teens early in the quarter how did May and June shake out and now we know where we are today? Retail comps to no surprise you saw the mixed data.
Retail comps settled late in the second quarter.
So we're trending consistent with that probably to no surprise.
And the Direct business deceled only because of the -- this first month of lapping that free-shipping offer.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one more quick one on the SG&amp;A topic.
Given those comp trends I mean how should we think about the ability to leverage expenses given some of the buckets that you mentioned that you're investing in? Well I think we'll leverage it more than we did in the second quarter as we get into third and fourth quarter.
We clearly made a lot of investments in the second quarter as we'd signaled.
So we will -- in the third and fourth we will leverage better than we did in the second but probably not as well as we did in the first just because there's some things we want to continue to improve about our business.
And quite frankly the top line will probably de-accelerate a little bit particularly as we comp in the fourth quarter the up 12% comp that we had a year ago.
And we'll take our next question from Rick Nelson with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Tommy you provided a comfort with third quarter and fourth quarter on a consensus estimate.
I'm curious how you're planning of thinking about the comp in those periods and what you're thinking in terms of the guns and ammo category in the back half of the year? Well Rick as we look ahead if you go even past Q4 where we got a 12% comp facing us we got 24% comp in Q1 and then a 10.5% in Q2 it's not going to surprise anybody on the call but it's going to be tough to comp a plus 12% and then a plus 24%.
The gun business and I'm just going to talk about guns now not ammo but the gun business is settling to what I would probably assume to be a new normal which is elevated above history but not at the fever level that we saw recently.
And that's a good thing.
So could comps get a little choppy in Q4 Q1 Q2 of next year? Yes probably.
Well I think what gives us a whole lot of comfort if you look at the second quarter 10 of 13 merchandise subcategories comp-ed up and many of them have nothing to do with guns and ammo.
In fact a category like archery one could argue albeit a smaller category always takes a hit when guns and ammo are booming because our customer says "Look I'm buying a gun.
I don't need to buy a bow." Footwear again great category in the quarter.
So we're able -- we're now able with the quality of our assortments in our presentations guns are going to be what guns are going to be.
I don't see ammo slowing down a whole lot anytime soon.
It could come down a little bit but it's still stretched pretty tight from a supply standpoint.
But guns are going to come back to normal.
That's not a surprise and what we're encouraged about is the performance of everything else in our assortment let alone the spectacular performance in the 5 next-gen stores that came into the comp base.
Yes and that's a real reason and I may have sounded a little pessimistic about comps a few minutes ago but there's a real reason to be optimistic about comp store sales.
As you think about the mix of our new stores we've got 30 I believe it's 35 stores in the comp base today.
Five of those stores are our next-generation stores that are comp-ing 600 basis points better than the average.
Well as you start -- as you start adding over the next 12 months we're going to roll about 7 new stores into the comp base in addition to the 5 that are there today and if we continue to see that kind of elevated performance of 600 basis points over the average as a whole that should really be accretive to comps.
And in addition to that we're looking at some new and expanded product categories to introduce into the stores too to help with comps too.
So there's reasons to be optimistic even going up against this -- the real elevated gun and ammo levels that we've seen over the last -- of the last few quarters.
Research Division</strong> That color is really helpful.
Can you discuss the industry-supply situation in guns and ammo and your own inventory levels.
Are you still able to maintain the margins in the gun category? Yes let's break that down Rick.
Ammunition supplies are different by category: .22-caliber ammunition is still very very very tight; pistol and revolver ammunition in some categories remains tight although better; and rifle ammunition particularly .223 is improving although still at -- not at levels that would replenish our inventories at historic normal levels.
So we're still under-inventoried and still under-inventoried against demand every day.
And that could improve a little bit in the balance of the year but I don't see a radical improvement.
Guns.
Supply is improving.
There's still some handgun categories that are tight.
Modern sporting rifles are more easily to get and we would envision in the back half of the year if you follow our advertising circulars for retail we pretty much had to stop advertising guns for the most part.
We'll be able to pick our cadence back up in the back half of the year and start advertising and promoting guns.
So there could be a little bit of downward pressure on gun margins but I don't see the industry going crazy and radically dropping prices across the board.
There's not enough supply to make that happen.
Does that help? Research Division</strong> Yes yes that's helpful.
And a final question the 3 categories that lagged in the quarter I'm curious if they're weather related and if that business just gets pushed out from Q2 to Q3? Well it was.
The categories were fishing camping and powersports so it was all weather-related with the late start of spring.
I'll take fishing as an example.
It started very slow in April because the lakes up in your part of the world were still frozen so you couldn't fish.
The business did come late in the quarter although clearly we comp-ed down very slightly in fishing.
But it did come on later in the quarter but I don't think there's going to be a meaningful difference in the third quarter.
I think what's more important is our merchants and planners did a great job of making sure our inventory positions were good and clean as the season started to wind down so that we don't have big overhang.
It actually turns into an opportunity next year if we see more normal weather patterns in the spring.
We'll take our next question from Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So first I just wanted to talk about the tactical decision that you guys made to invest in advertising and labor during the quarter.
Going forward are you targeting a certain percent of sales? How should we think about that in the back half? And then is there any way to measure the payoff on that in terms of either Net Promoter Scores or the kind of brand awareness from the advertising? Well obviously we spent a lot of time measuring our advertising.
Some is easier to measure than others and some of it we feel helped us get to 13.7% increase in the Direct business in the strong comp performance that we saw.
I think as we move forward to the back half of the year you'll see a little bit less than that.
But we just saw particularly coming out of Q1 what we saw as being a strong business saw an opportunity to expand our brand nationwide.
What's a little -- which went hand-in-hand with making more sense is we're rolling out more retail stores and have more of a national footprint.
Matt as you know it's pretty easy to measure the impact of -- we increased circulation 12.5% in the quarter.
We made additional investments in search engine optimization all of which are things as you know are easily measured.
Almost by definition we haven't really ever done any national brand advertising to -- and It's in Your Nature gave us that chance.
So by definition it's hard to say doubling of our brand campaign in the quarter related to 200 basis points on the direct comp because we spent more money on It's In Your Nature.
We just thought it was the perfect campaign.
We had a great business environment to spend a little bit more money and we did.
I think as we look at the back half a lot of those investments are behind us and we'll probably be a little more judicious and go back to our normal cadence in the back half of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just a couple of housekeeping questions.
The first is on the store-to-door launch in the back half.
Any sense for how much -- how many orders or how many opt-outs or card cancels there are when you are out of inventory on the site but you have it in the stores? Is there a way to quantify how many of those orders that you could potentially fulfill? Yes it's a meaningful number and I think the best thing to tell you is let's just wait and see how it rolls out.
We're not going to do it in one big bang.
So we're not going to do every store on one day.
That would be imprudent.
But by the time we get to early November we should have phased in every store to be able to fulfill from.
So it'll build slowly through October but what I wanted to convey is we are right on track to implement this and it's going to have a favorable impact.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just lastly I didn't hear a lot of mention about the Outpost stores.
I'm just wondering -- I know that they were -- there aren't that many that are open but it sounded like the gross margins were tracking above the company average.
Can you give any more detail about how you're feeling about the Outpost stores in terms of returns and performance? Well the only reason that you didn't hear much about the Outpost we've only got 2 open into a 5-store test.
But they are similar to our next-generation stores they're comp-ing much better or they're performing on a per square foot basis much better than our legacy stores.
And they're right in line with plans.
So we feel good about our Outpost stores.
We're at least I'm looking forward to the back half of the year when we get 3 more open and have a full 5 store open and just see how they perform collectively.
And it quite frankly when you have more of them open it will give us an opportunity to dedicate more resources.
Just those stores that have dedicated teams are those stores which is something we're looking forward to.
Matt this could be unrelated to our increase in brand spending and spending more marketing dollars.
But something we've been paying very close attention to are the buying patterns and shopping habits of our new-to-file customers in 2013 versus 2012.
And quite interestingly those new-to-file customers that bought a firearm and those new-to-file customers that bought ammunition and I'm looking those at separate categories and then those customers new to file who bought sort of everything else what has been astounding in 2013 is all 3 of those categories of new-to-file customers are coming back more often and buying more than new-to-file customers did in 2012 and it's a significant change not a little change a significant change.
Now can we tie that back to brand advertising or additional marketing programs probably pretty hard to do but we are converting those new-to-file customers into regular customers better than we did in 2012 and that bodes well for the company long term.
We'll take our next question from Lee Giordano with Imperial Cap.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little more about the Financial Services business and what you're seeing in interest rate environment and then I guess the potential impact from the higher rates that we're seeing recently? Yes well as everyone knows particularly the 10-year rate went up pretty significantly about 4 weeks ago and has settled down a little bit.
And that's changed our strategy a fair amount.
We're still trying to lengthen liabilities but well I mean what's interesting to me is we've set now that we have $500 million of 10-year liabilities which is about the total it's out about $550 million actually of both 10-year CDs and 10-year term securitizations we're in an interesting situation where increases in the short-term rate would actually be a significant lift to earnings.
And to kind of help quantify that if LIBOR would move up 50 basis points we think that would be upside to our earnings of $5 million to $10 million per year.
So we've put ourselves in a great position for a rising-rate environment which it seems to me at some point is going to happen.
I don't know if that's sooner rather than later but it seems like rates are going to have to go up at some point.
So we feel really good about where we sit from an interest rate risk exposure.
And Lee as Ralph said in his comments going long on a 10 year impaired earnings by higher interest expense in the quarter by $2 million but we just thought that was a great thing to do long term for the company albeit at a short-term impact.
We'll take our next question from Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
If you're looking at the price versus volume in your sales in the quarter can you comment on that especially if you look at it with and without guns and ammo? I don't have it with or without guns and ammo but transactions were up 9.9% in the quarter and average ticket was up 0.6%.
And those numbers are at Retail.
At Retail.
That's of the Retail comp most of it was driven by transactions versus ticket.
Right but no specific comment on inflation as it impacted your sales? No.
It wasn't meaningful at all.
If you look at your sales mix between Direct and Retail could you talk about that a little what moved the margin? And I realized we don't have guns and very little ammo this time around in Direct but could you comment on that sort of adjusting for guns and ammo? Well we saw a great performance out of high-margin categories like hunting apparel and footwear which helped us a lot.
Just the strong categories in Direct and Retail were basically the same ones.
If we start layering in both optics and bows -- and archery in both and the weak categories were in both Retail and Direct where the slow start to spring categories of fishing powersports and camping.
So not a material difference between the channels.
Yes I mean not surprisingly this trend we've seen over a number of years is that most of our improvement in merchandise gross margin comes in the Retail side of the business and this quarter was not unusual with respect to that.
So it had more margin improvement than Direct? Yes a matter of fact it had more than all of margin improvement that we saw.
What's driving archery? It's just had a great year Chuck.
I wish I could tell you.
When Hunger Games when that movie started it launched a resurgence of archery together with some really exciting new products.
We have a co-branded bow with our partner BowTech that's just been a real successful product.
And what's kind of interesting is I was looking yesterday Hunger Games 2 the movie hits the screen on November 22 and it may have another push to help the archery category.
And plus there are a lot of -- the scholastic archery programs in the United States are nothing short of phenomenal.
So there is just a lot of interest and a lot of great new product in archery and look we have a great assortment and are capitalizing on it.
Looking at The Street guidance range or excuse me The Street range for earnings this year it's $335 million to $355 million I guess this is as of last night with The Street consensus around $343 million.
Can you comment on that relative to your comments around the quarters? I'm not sure what I can add to it.
We said that we're comfortable with external estimates for both the third and fourth quarter.
So -- and if you add them up to what we did in the first half of the year that gets you in the range that you mentioned.
So...
Well I'm just thinking it's a $0.20 range.
Would you be more focused on the middle or high end or what? I'm not sure we can comment on the range.
We -- our comments in the script are relative to consensus.
We'll take our next question from David Magee with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions.
First given the Direct performance this year and the performance of new stores does that cause you to rethink the potential impact from cannibalization that you talked about in the past? Or is that relationship going to hold the way you set it up before? Obviously given the importance of ammo to the Direct business we've seen that business perform really well.
We haven't gone back recently and looked at the cannibalization impact.
We'll do that as we get all the stores opened in 2013.
But I think it's -- our normal expectation the $2 million to $3 million a store still seems reasonable as we think about opening up new stores.
David what I remain really curious about I can't wait to get stores open in Anchorage Alaska and we announced Acworth Georgia this morning and Augusta.
It's going to be really interesting to see what happens to our Direct business in those markets markets like those where we have no physical presence.
I'm really curious to see does it actually could it actually lift the Direct business because we're more front of mind? Because you drive by our store every day.
You think "Well I don't have time to go to the store but I'm going to go online because I saw the name and I know the company." And it's going to be interesting to see how that unfolds.
Well particularly in the Southeast as Tommy mentioned some of them but now in 2014 we've got 4 stores opening in the Southeast which are Greenville South Carolina and Bristol Virginia Acworth Georgia and Augusta Georgia.
That'll give us pretty good visibility to some pretty important markets in the Southeast and could be helpful to the Direct business.
And that's our lowest performing Direct region is where we don't -- in the Southeast where we don't have a lot of store visibility.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Second question is the -- on the credit card business it sounds like obviously you're growing the account base very nicely and it sounds like they're engaged.
Do you see anything happening different on the competitive front with regard to other players in the loyalty programs the rewards programs? No not particularly in the loyalty space.
We haven't seen anything meaningful going on there.
It's a great brand and that's really what attracts people to our card program.
We'll take our next question from Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> You guys have done a really nice job of improving the merchandise margins.
It sounds like you may be a little bit more advertising in the back half on the firearm category so that could have a little bit of an impact there.
But curious what's your outlook is for just inflation on the costing environment that you're seeing as you source goods for Q3 and Q4 at this point? Well those goods are long ago bought.
I think we bought fall softgoods in footwear probably a year ago.
But so we're not seeing a lot.
I mean it's just not even an issue.
Inflation pressures from the supply side are not a threat to our business or our margins.
And we're not seeing a lot of pressure.
We're buying now for spring of '14 and looking at fall buys for '14 and not seeing pressures that are anything other than completely manageable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great.
And then if there was potentially a slowdown in the firearms and ammunition I mean could that potentially be a little bit more opportunity then to offset some of that sales slowdown with the better profitability or higher merchandise margins from the rest of the store? Well I think there's a couple of opportunities.
The biggest one is obviously mix.
For example in this quarter margins were hurt 58 basis points by mix.
So they would have been much higher had it not been for that.
So clearly if guns and ammos slow there'll be an opportunity that the -- it will not have as much impact on gross profit dollars because of the mix issue.
And then combine that with my comments earlier about comp store sales doing well because of all the new next-generation stores entering the base and the possibility of some new and expanded products those are all things that we're doing in preparation of a slowdown in guns and ammo.
And Sean to add just a little more color as we look to the back half of the year last year margins in Q3 were 37.2% which was the third highest rate in a quarter going all the way back to Q1 of 2007.
So that's a pretty high run rate.
I wouldn't expect a lot of upside to that.
It gets a little easier in Q4 with margins at 36.2%.
So I think probably limited opportunity for expansion in Q3 just because the rate's so darn high with some opportunity in Q4.
But as we get through that we continue to be committed to continuous improvement in margins.
Our price optimization tool will give us some benefit in 2014.
Net SKU profitability the net SKU profitability tool from Acorn we mentioned is an interesting one because it actually doesn't help merchandise gross margin rate because most of the impact is in below-the-line cost.
And Ralph used a great example to me yesterday that there's a cost to get apparel in that's already prepacked hung versus loose pack that we have to put on a hanger.
Little silly stuff like it's activity-based costing.
And this tool allows us real visibility into what the total cost of a product is not just what it cost to buy versus to sell.
So it could really impact below-the-line cost in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's really helpful.
And then I guess just a secondary question here is just on the competitive dynamics out there you guys have seen great success going to the smaller format closer in to some larger communities and then obviously the Outpost strategy.
Looks like some other people are also accelerating some of their growth in these areas.
Have you seen anything that has been potentially impacting your business as people have been coming into the market or closer to you guys? Or just any comments there would be really helpful.
I think it's very important for everyone to remember that it's easy for us to get fixated on our big box competitors when in fact a huge preponderance of our industry remains independent dealers.
That's really the big competitor for all of the big boxes in or the specialty guys in our business.
Have we seen an impact? No.
We overlap with almost everyone of our big-box competitors today and we have for a long period of time.
What gives us all the confidence in the world and Ralph and I have seen every location with our own eyes in each one of the markets that we're going to in '13 '14 and soon to be '15.
I can assure you that our '13 stores and our '14 stores and the '15 stores we're looking at we are in the best locations in those markets.
Our balance sheet allowed us to get the best locations and we would submit that the best location in retail as long as your strategy is good and the community is a viable is the winning strategy.
And we feel absolutely 100% confident we're in the best places in those markets.
And what everybody else does I can't do anything about that nor can Cabela's but we're in great locations.
We'll take our next question from Jim Duffy with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions for you guys.
So the Direct revenue progress is encouraging.
It's come with some margin compromise however.
Is that to suggest that going forward you're more comfortable sacrificing rate of margin to drive gross profit on the Direct side? Well there's clearly been some of that and some of it it's caused by the mix issue.
But no I think it's just as it has been for years it's just been tougher to grow margins in the Direct business.
So I think when you see things like mix impact that business we're less able to compensate for it on the Direct business than we are at Retail.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay makes sense.
And then I'm going to throw this one out too and see what I get.
When you buy a gun of course you need ammo.
Have you guys ever done any sort of analysis to look at correlation between gun sales and then ammo demand in the following periods? Other than what Tommy discussed earlier about the retention rate of customers I mean that's kind of where we're really focus on is how often they come back.
Obviously part of that purchase is for ammo but we're interested in selling them an array of products.
But ammo is a driver for repeat purchase of these new customers to file.
What was really interesting Jim was this -- the all other customers that we've gotten that are buying unrelated gun and ammo products they're coming back more frequently and buying more.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Maybe I missed this.
Could you guys talk about -- I know sounds like it was positive but did you talk about the comp rate for the softgoods categories like footwear and apparel? We didn't give you a specific rate but one of the in retail one of the strong well the strongest softgoods categories were hunting apparel and footwear.
It did nicely in the quarter.
Really nicely.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just a technicality the powersports when you talk about that does that include boats or is boats...
It does.
Yes it does.
We'll take our next question from Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I don't if you guys key in or want to quantify ammo impact on Direct business? We discussed last time Mark that we weren't going to break out ammo anymore on a specific level.
So I guess the answer is no.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think on the last question you said mix obviously was a big piece of what pushed the Direct margin down a bit.
I did.
And I mean ammo was strong in the quarter.
I mean there's no question it's been strong.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then next can you just talk about maybe over the last 6 months or even a year and what we're seeing on Cabela's branded mix really in categories excluding obviously hunting -- or I'm sorry firearm ammo powersports just kind of the trend continuing to see on Cabela's branded gear especially as we look at some of these Outpost and next-generation stores? Yes I'll be glad to.
If you'll think back to 2 analyst meetings ago.
I think we're in Phoenix.
We really laid out for you guys what our plans were for Cabela's branded products.
And it involved getting Cabela's branded products at the better and best categories of our merchandise assortment and out of opening-price-point merchandise.
So a deliberate conscious strategy to improve performance and quality across the board everywhere from footwear to co-branded bows to optics to camo patterns.
Everything we did we were going to reserve our very best highest performing products to bear the Cabela's brand name.
And we were going to be probably less concerned about what percent of penetration and just -- if we give customers great products they're going to buy them and just -- we're going to let the chips fall.
And man the reaction to our spring Cabela's branded merchandise from BOA footwear to our new Guidewear assortments to men's casual and women's our Bowtech co-branded bow just terrific.
And as we go to the fall man we've just got really neat stuff.
We have a color changing camo pattern that it's called Phase technology so as it gets colder or warmer the camo pattern actually changes the fabric changes the look of the camo.
It's just really cool technology.
Our Zonz camo is you can see it online today revolutionary camo.
So we're getting better at just elevating the quality and performance of Cabela's branded products and we think that just bodes very well for the brand long term.
We'll take our final question from Anthony Lebiedzinski with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of questions please.
First can you just tell us what's driving the improvement in the legacy stores that you highlighted in the press release? Well I think yes there's -- I tell you that's mainly driven by people.
Just as we've continued to hire more great retail expertise from across the industry those people are applying learnings to both our Direct -- to both our legacy stores and our new stores and we're seeing real lift to that business.
And Anthony we've done a really good job of taking the learnings adjacencies that we've learned a lot about in next-gen stores of where to put product categories.
We've taken those learnings instantly to the legacy stores and we've mentioned this in prior calls pulling sunglasses from the back corner of the store and putting them on the front-drive aisle it just makes a difference.
So it's using a lot of the learnings from next-gen stores and Outpost in product presentation in the legacy stores and I would submit to you just better products overall.
Our customers are reacting to better product in legacy stores and next-gen stores.
LLC</strong> Got it okay.
And in the Retail segment you gave us a breakdown of the merchandise categories kind of the '13 performed well.
Can you give us a similar kind of statistic for the Direct business? They were not meaningfully different.
The 3 categories that were weak in Retail were also relatively weak in Direct which was fishing camping and power sports which was attributable to the weather in the late spring.
And the other categories that were good in Direct were optics footwear archery and shooting.
So not much difference between the 2 channels.
And with no further questions I'd like to turn the call back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thanks everybody for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you again soon.
Thanks.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Cabela's Incorporated Third Quarter Fiscal 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded.
And I will now turn the conference over to Chris Gay Director Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call may include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks Chris and good morning everyone.
Our record third quarter financial results provide further evidence of superior next-generation store performance and a dominant omni-channel model that continues to exceed our expectations.
For the quarter we realized strong growth in comp store sales increases in Direct revenue higher merchandise margin solid account growth in our Cabela's CLUB and exceptional performance from our next-generation stores.
While pleased with many aspects of our business in the quarter we did experience a change in consumer sentiment.
This change seemed to go beyond the expected slowdown in firearms and ammunition.
We began to see this impact in August and it has persisted through October.
Our reaction has been to slightly increase advertising and marketing spend while tightly managing other expenses to reflect a more conservative outlook.
Obviously as witnessed by our guidance we remain confident in our promotional plans for the holiday season our strong new store performance and continued growth in our Cabela's CLUB program.
For the quarter 14 of our 18 next-generation stores were opened for the full period and outperformed our legacy store base by approximately 50% in sales per square foot and approximately 60% in profit per square foot.
During the quarter we opened next-generation stores in Ashwaubenon Wisconsin; Thornton Colorado; Lone Tree Colorado; and Regina Saskatchewan all of which are performing extremely well.
Each new store we opened continues to perform significantly better than our legacy stores reinforcing our retail growth strategy.
Additionally as next-generation stores enter the comp base they continue to outperform.
For the quarter comp store sales for the 8 next-generation stores in the comp base were 6.7% which is 280 basis points above the consolidated comp.
During the quarter we had 3 next-generation stores enter the comp base and during the fourth quarter we will have 2 more enter the comp base.
As next-generation stores continue to perform exceptionally well we are very excited for the cadence of store openings that we've announced.
For the quarter consolidated comp store sales increased 3.9%.
The increase in comp store sales was broad-based as sales increased in 9 of 13 merchandise subcategories.
For the quarter firearms comped down 2.5% while we saw solid performance from ammunition men's apparel hunting apparel and fishing.
Excluding firearms comp store sales increased 5.3%.
Today we announced plans to open 2 domestic next-generation stores in 2015 one in Sun Prairie Wisconsin northeast of Madison; and the other in Garner North Carolina just south of Raleigh.
We also announced plans for another Canadian store in Nanaimo British Columbia which will open in late 2014.
This brings the total to 14 announced stores for 2014 and 3 announced stores for 2015.
These new stores represent approximately 18% retail square footage growth in 2014.
We highly anticipate that our 2014 new store lineup will provide exceptional performance as a number of these stores represent our entry into great markets.
For the quarter merchandise gross margin increased to 37.3% from 37.2% in the year ago quarter.
Merchandise mix declines from ammunition sales were more than offset by margin improvement due to the elimination of free shipping to CLUB members increased penetration of Cabela's brand merchandise and fewer sales discounts and markdowns.
We have significantly improved merchandise margin over the last 4 years.
Accordingly we expect modest improvement in merchandise margin as we move through 2014.
Now let me turn to retail profitability which is a key initiative in our retail growth strategy.
For the quarter retail profitability increased 10 basis points to 18.8%.
This is the 18th consecutive quarter of retail profit contribution improvement.
Improvements in retail profitability were due entirely to higher merchandise margin.
For the quarter Direct revenue increased 0.9% which fell shy of our expectations.
Direct revenue was impacted by a significant deceleration in ammunition sales and a more cautious consumer.
As we expect ammunition to continue to moderate our Direct business is expected to be down at a mid single-digit rate for the fourth quarter.
During the quarter we went live with our omni-channel fulfillment program in a limited number of stores and merchandise categories.
The benefits we've seen from our ability to fulfill customer direct orders with inventory from our retail channel are very encouraging.
As a result we plan to expand omni-channel fulfillment across 20 retail stores by mid-2014.
Additionally during the fourth quarter we will implement a number of improvements to our mobile platform allowing our direct customers to have the best experience on their mobile devices.
During the quarter we saw a moderation in the sales of firearms and ammunition as well as a challenging consumer environment across all business channels.
On our second quarter earnings call in July we noted that our business was running as planned.
As we got into August we began to see a more challenging consumer environment combined with a slowdown in firearm sales and deceleration in ammunition sales.
Accordingly we slightly increased promotional spending while taking a more aggressive approach to managing other expenses.
We believe we have made the necessary adjustments to manage costs down to levels consistent with how our business is performing and we'll continue to manage these costs through the end of the year.
We expect fourth quarter comparable store sales to be down mid single digits and then more than that in the first quarter of 2014 where we're up against a plus-24% comp from a year ago.
As we enter the back half of 2014 we expect comp store sales to return to more normalized levels.
Now let's take a look at our Cabela's CLUB which had another exceptional quarter.
We continued to see strong growth in average active accounts and favorable delinquency and charge-off trends.
For the quarter average active accounts increased 10.1% and charge-offs remained at extremely low levels and were just 1.72% in the quarter.
Now turning to guidance.
We continue to be very pleased with the strong performance of our next-generation stores omni-channel transformation and growth in our Cabela's CLUB loyalty program.
Our retail stores are performing at very high levels and we've adjusted expenses to be more in line with current business trends.
As a result we are comfortable with the current external earnings estimates for the fourth quarter of 2013.
While our 2014 budget is not yet finalized we expect 2014 to be the sixth consecutive year of double-digit earnings per share growth.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance of our Cabela's CLUB.
Thanks Tommy.
For the quarter non-GAAP earnings per share increased 15% to $0.69 compared to $0.60 in the prior year.
Retail revenue increased 20.8% over the same quarter a year ago led by the exceptional performance of our next-generation stores.
The strong performance of these new stores reinforces our confidence as we continue our retail expansion.
We opened 4 new stores during the third quarter and have been very pleased with their performance.
In the fourth quarter we plan on opening 2 Outpost stores one in Waco Texas and the other in Kalispell Montana.
With regard to comps -- with regard to comp stores we'll have 2 next-generation stores entering the comp base in the fourth quarter of this year.
Looking forward to 2014 we expect to open 1 Outpost store in the first quarter.
In the second quarter we plan to open 4 domestic next-generation stores 2 Outpost stores and 1 next-generation store in Canada.
In the third quarter we expect to open 4 domestic next-generation stores and 2 next-generation stores in Canada.
These stores represent approximately 1 million new square feet of retail space or 18% square footage growth in 2014.
As a result of our store growth preopening expenses increased $3.7 million in the quarter to $7.8 million compared to $4.1 million in the third quarter a year ago.
With these additional stores opening in 2014 compared to 2013 we expect to realize additional preopening expenses in 2014.
Direct revenue increased 0.9% to $199 million compared to $197 million in the same quarter a year ago.
While we're pleased with the fourth consecutive quarter of growth in our Direct business these results fell shy of our expectations as ammunition growth slowed faster than we anticipated leading to a deceleration in Internet traffic and lower average ticket.
Our limited rollout of omni-channel fulfillment is progressing nicely and we look forward to rolling this out to additional stores and more product categories in the remainder of the year.
For the quarter Financial Services revenue increased 12.6% to $96.8 million.
The increase in Financial Services revenue was primarily due to a 10.1% increase in average active accounts.
The account growth helped drive higher interest and fee income as well as interchange income.
For the quarter average credit card loans increased by 13.5%.
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans remained constant with the prior year quarter rising a single basis point to 1.72%.
Additionally we continued to see improvements in delinquencies greater than 30-day delinquencies which is 0.71% as compared to 0.81% a year ago.
Greater than 60-day delinquencies were 0.42% as compared to 0.49% a year ago.
And greater than 90-day delinquencies were 0.21% as compared to 0.26% a year ago.
For the quarter we reduced our allowance for loan losses by $5.1 million compared to a $1.3 million reduction in the year ago quarter.
The reduction was mostly a result of our evaluation of the performance of restructured or fixed pay credit card loans.
Beginning in 2008 with the significant increases in delinquencies and charge-offs we placed more emphasis on utilizing fixed pay plans as part of our collection strategy.
Based upon very limited usage of the fixed pay plans prior to 2008 the performance of these loans was uncertain.
With fixed pay plans now approaching the 5-year statutory maturity and additional history on loans restructured subsequent to 2008 we're able to perform additional analysis to determine actual expected performance of the restructured loan portfolio.
Due to the continued improvements in charge-off rates on loans restructured after 2008 which we expect to continue we have reduced the allowance for loan losses accordingly.
For the quarter Financial Services interest expense increased 23.7% to $17.1 million as compared to $13.8 million in the same quarter a year ago.
As previously discussed the increase in interest expense is mostly due to our efforts to lengthen our maturities and lock in historically low fixed rates.
Additionally during the quarter we completed a 5-year term securitization to fund growth.
The transaction included a $100 million of notes that accrue interest at a fixed rate of 2.17% and $197.5 million of notes which accrue interest at a floating rate equal to 1 month LIBOR plus 65 basis points.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 we recorded a liability of $12.5 million as a result of the preliminary court approval of the Visa antitrust settlement.
Since that time a group of plaintiffs has opted out of the proposed settlement and we received our initial interchange reduction notification from Visa.
With this new information we reevaluated the impact of the 10-basis-point reduction of default interchange income and determined that the estimated liability for the proposed settlement would be reduced by $1.7 million in the quarter.
Accordingly we recognized the $1.7 million as interchange revenue for the quarter.
As discussed during the second quarter earnings call more effective tax planning has led to a tax rate reduction which is expected to continue to some extent.
As a result the effective tax rate in the quarter was 31.3% compared to 32.3% in the year ago quarter and is below the guidance we gave in our second quarter call.
We expect the effective tax rate for the fourth quarter to be between 31.5% and 32.5%.
For 2014 we expect the effective tax rate to be between 31.5% and 33.5%.
Now let's turn to inventory.
Inventory increased by 13% or $93.9 million year-over-year to $816 million.
Over the same period we've grown retail square footage by 13.4% with 9 new stores opening since Q3 2012.
Inventory turns improved to 3x in the third quarter as compared to 2.8x in the same quarter a year ago.
We're very comfortable with the quality of our inventory.
For the 9-month period cash flow from operations was $94 million compared to $58 million in the same period a year ago.
Virtually all the cash we have is held in our Financial Services subsidiary.
At quarter-end we had $200 million outstanding in our line of credit.
With our accelerating store growth plans we expect full year 2013 capital expenditures to be between $300 million and $325 million.
Cash flow from operations is expected to be between $300 million and $350 million for 2013.
We expect to complete a small financing transaction in 2014 to fund future growth.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
We're pleased with our record financial results for the third quarter and in particular the strong performance of our next-generation stores and growth in the Cabela's CLUB program.
We're very excited about our future growth opportunities in making sure we cherish and delight every customer every day.
With that operator let's open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take the first question from Reed Anderson with Northland Securities.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
First of all I guess let's talk about comps first.
So Tommy when you look at -- despite the firearms you still have the majority of your categories were comping positive.
So I'm curious as you look into that next quarter or the quarter we're in now in particular with that down mid single-digit comp is your expectation that it'll largely reflect what's going on in firearms? Or do you think you'll see further weakness in some of the stuff that maybe has slipped a little since late August[ph]? I'm sorry Reed this is Ralph.
I'll take the first part of that question and let Tommy jump in.
I mean what we're seeing so far in the fourth quarter I mean our comps at least through the first 3.5 weeks of October are down just slightly.
But what we're anticipating -- this goes to your point.
What we're anticipating is as you move forward through this quarter and anniversary the election and then the Newtown tragedy that happened in December obviously guns accelerated as we move through the quarter.
So we expect the quarter to be largely impacted by guns and we're actually anticipating to get it worse than what we've experienced through the first 3.5 weeks.
I'm sorry Tommy.
No.
Exactly.
Research Division</strong> Good.
That makes a lot of sense.
And then I guess just kind of related to the whole comp discussion I mean Tommy put your vendor hat on from years ago but when I look at for example your deer camp promo just showed up in my email -- or my mailbox the other day but it looks like the firearm vendors in particular are very cognizant of what's going on and very accommodating with what needs to happen in terms of keeping customer activity going.
Would you agree with that? And I guess do we see that extending here for the next couple of quarters? Just thoughts on that regard.
Yes I think so Reed.
If you'll recall starting really in January and February because of availability of product we pretty much had to pull firearms from most of our retail ads and circulars.
Ammunition we canceled a major shooting book in the first quarter because we simply couldn't get product.
As the year has progressed product availability is better but it's still not great.
We've seen an improvement in modern sporting rifles and in other firearms so much that we can begin to start our regular cadence of including those products which are good traffic drivers in our retail circulars.
But I don't -- because of the inventory constraints there might be some slight settling of margin in those categories over the next year or 2.
But look the vendors they've got to keep their factories running too and they've been very accommodating.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 1 follow-up related to that is on the ammo side then given that's obviously more like a commodity sort of razor blade business would you foresee that you might see some price moderation in that category as -- into the next couple of quarters at the retail level? Well maybe.
But again the challenge is -- we've not seen any relief in rimfire ammunition.
In terms of supply it's still very very tight.
Even for reasons I can't explain a number of hunting calibers traditional hunting calibers if you shop retail stores you don't find any.
It's tight.
However 223 is much more available and maybe it's just our -- the broadening of our supply base that we started years ago that's helping us.
But it's not like there's a crazy amount of supply that would lead to a glut that would lead to a collapse of pricing at all.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And then I just have one more question.
When you talk about the Direct ease and the fourth quarter being also down kind of mid singles what are you contemplating in that in terms of like catalog [indiscernible] or promotion email? I mean how does that -- are you reflecting a decline in that as well or just you're changing sort of the mix? Just curious.
No it's more mix related from ammunition just beginning to come back to more normal levels.
Research Division</strong> Makes sense.
Good.
I'll let somebody else jump in...
And Reed it's kind of interesting that 2 years ago if we had had a Direct business up 0.9% we would have been celebrating.
So it's important for everyone to understand that 0.9% increase in the quarter's pretty good but it just didn't -- we thought it was going to be a little bit better.
The same thing in retail comps we just saw this subtle change in the consumer.
I mean we should be thrilled with the comps we posted.
We just thought they were going to be better.
We thought the consumer was going to be a little stronger during the quarter.
Reed just to kind of add on to that.
What I -- as I think about our business it is largely behaving as we thought it would as we entered this time and period when we were coming up against really big comps.
Firearm has slowed.
Ammunition although is decelerated from huge levels we saw in the first and second quarter is still up year-over-year and we expect to continue to see strength in that.
As I said earlier we have seen comps down just very slightly in the first 3 weeks of the quarter.
We are planning for them to get worse as we anniversary the election here in 2 weeks and then the Newtown tragedy later in December.
But I think most of that we feel pretty good about.
If there's 1 area maybe we're a little concerned about to Tommy's points the Direct business has slowed maybe more than what we originally thought.
And then we did notice in August and September in the rest of our business we did see real slowdowns as we got into a bunch of noise in the economy about Syria and government shutdowns.
It did hurt the rest of our business.
But we feel pretty good about where we are as we anniversary.
This time it's really tough comps.
We'll take the next question from Jim Duffy with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ralph a question on the Finance business.
A couple of interesting dynamics there.
It looked like the average balances ticked up some at least relative to what the growth rate has been.
Do you think that's a sustainable trend? And then...
They did accelerate.
I'm just looking at the earnings release.
They did accelerate slightly in the quarter.
They're up -- in the quarter they're up 3%.
Year-to-date they're up 2.5%.
Just as -- that's largely driven by the age of the account.
And we may see higher levels than the 2.5% but to think it's going to move meaningfully from that seems optimistic.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so the younger the account the more likely it is to grow? Is that...
Well yes.
The younger the account the lower the -- it's a little bit like a traditional retail store.
The lower the average balance and the more likely it is to grow.
So as you build -- putting on a bunch of new accounts you're driving down average balance which we've -- new accounts are going to make up a smaller piece of the total as we move forward which could put some upward pressure on that.
I'm kind of jumping ahead in your question but I -- what I -- as we look at that data I think -- well at least what I expect to happen is not to see big increases in either growth rates in average account -- or I'm sorry number accounts or average account balance.
But I think those growth rates are sustainable for a way longer period of time than I had at least originally assumed.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Let me ask a more detailed question with respect to that.
So how do you think about cardholder growth with respect to footage growth? I would expect with accelerated footage you'd see a pickup in the number of cardholders.
Or is that not how you think about it? Well it is.
I actually did -- earlier this year -- I'm sure I drove our CLUB guys crazy but I did a way more detailed study myself on that.
And what I learned is that old -- and I can share with you the details but I mean what I did was I treated every store as if it was its own credit card portfolio.
Now by the way this is comparing end of 2012 to 2011 which might have been influenced as we came out of the recession.
What I was shocked to find out is our slowest growing store was growing their portfolio at 6% which struck me as a lot.
So the point is we're seeing really good growth out of a lot of our old stores and then the new stores are adding on top of that.
But there are really so few new stores relative to the base.
You've got to count on those old stores to continue to grow.
So that's a long way to answer the question of what we -- what I would expect to see is kind of that 10% to 12% account growth but as we open up more and more new stores that can last for 5 to 10 years.
So we're really optimistic about the future of account growth assuming that we continue square footage growth.
But what's happening is the stores we open in '14 are going to be drivers of account growth for '15 '16 '17 and '18.
On a large base of cardholders.
Right.
So we feel -- I mean we think the growth rates we're seeing there are sustainable and may accelerate a little but you won't see 15% and 16% account growth out of that business probably ever.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Shifting gears a little bit.
Follow up on one of Reed's line of questioning.
How much of a benefit was price in firearms and ammunition over the past year? And is some of the softness that you're seeing on the Direct side because competitors are getting more price competitive with ammunition? I don't think so Jim.
We don't have any sense of that.
I mean you cut out the middle of your question but I think the question was how much did price affect the comp? And is some of the slowdown in...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No.
Actually Ralph the question was how much of a benefit was price to the firearms and ammunition category over the past year? I know you guys have been taking some price increases in those categories.
Yes.
I would tell you in the last year not much.
Over a longer period of time we clearly have seen some price inflation but not in the last I don't know several quarters.
No.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question.
Attach sales for firearms scope safes holsters that type of thing do you have data that shows when those sales occur? Do they occur at the time of purchase? Or is there a lag as to when you might see that attach sale as an add-on? Well Jim we've gotten really good in the last year of not escorting the customer out of the store with their firearm before they're finished shopping.
We have concierge programs in our stores.
Just about 1 year 1.5 years ago when you would buy your firearm we would literally walk you out to your car.
And we kind of realized that's sort of stupid because maybe you'd like to buy a scope and a sling.
And so we have processes now that allow the customer to continue to shop if they want to and attach the scope and that's really helped attachment at the time of sale.
And we also had a program earlier this year to prescreen for a card when you purchased a firearm.
So we've gotten much better at that which has led to more attachment earlier.
The next question comes from Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first question is as you've seen the deceleration in the firearms and the ammo business to a certain extent what's happening to the attachments in terms of categories like optics and safes? You mentioned that hunting apparel was one of your best categories.
That seems to disprove the theory that guns drove this halo over a lot of categories but just curious what you're seeing.
Yes.
We haven't seen a significant change from prior periods.
What's different is we obviously have seen a slight deceleration of new customers but in the quarter it was almost -- we almost -- 10% new customers.
So it just wasn't dramatically -- like it was dramatically higher than that earlier in the year.
Matt we had reactivation in the quarter of almost 9.5%.
So good trends but no real changes in attachment.
I think here's the way I would think about it Matt.
The closer the attach product is to the gun the more it's impacted.
So as I look at what affected retail comps in the quarter 2 of the quarters -- 2 of the categories that are down were firearms and optics which probably makes sense.
But what was up was ammunition men's apparel fishing and hunting apparel which are categories I think we would all agree are less correlated necessarily to gun sales.
So to your point some of what we've talked about to see our customers money move back and forth between various product categories to some extent that's happening.
And Matt what's really critical to sustaining that trend of other categories being relevant as guns settle goes to a product I'll use as an example.
We launched Zonz camo which is a whole new concept in camouflage clothing.
It has literally taken the market by storm.
So we didn't need the traffic from guns to sell this product because it's great on its own merits.
And that's the really important stuff.
Our development of OutfitHer women's camouflage clothing I saw data yesterday from a study that Southwick associates has done.
Women are now 11% of hunters.
And in my career in the industry I mean it used to be 0 or so close to 0 that you wouldn't even bother measuring.
Now it's 11%.
So for us to have really relevant camo clothing for women that category is doing great.
So it's all about innovation in other categories of our business to attract the consumer.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's a good segue in my -- into my second question which is the simple math would tell you that firearms profit dollars should be down in the tens of millions in the fourth quarter and in the first quarter.
But based on your commentary around guidance your comfort with estimates it suggests that there are a number of offsets.
So what are the kind of discrete offsets either in terms of product launches like Zonz or cost offsets that sort of allow you to still hit the numbers? Well there clearly are some product offsets and you mentioned a couple of them.
Zonz camo is a big one that would have been used.
And OutfitHer is another one.
But I would tell you the biggest thing is just more tightly managing SG&amp;A.
And I'll give you an example of that.
Earlier in the quarter earlier in the year we had an opportunity to test a bunch of new marketing programs which we talked about.
Some of the national marketing is one of them.
So as we move into the fourth quarter we're really focusing on a has the marketing worked and focused on that? And then also just try to be -- one of the interesting -- we were talking with some of our retail peeps the other day.
23% of the labor in a store is behind the gun counter.
So obviously that's an opportunity to manage that down as we move forward along with our distribution costs.
And then there's just a bunch of fine tuning what's going on at the corporate headquarters.
So it's really everything.
It starts with product which you mentioned and then goes through the SG&amp;A line just trying to manage that more tightly.
So as I said earlier I think things are behaving very similar to what we thought it would.
It's up to us to make sure that we can manage the SG&amp;A line as we go through these next 2 3 4 quarters.
LLC Research Division</strong> On SG&amp;A management how much of that comes from sort of labor cost management versus marketing or advertising? Oh I'm not sure we can quantify it.
Those are obviously the 2 biggest levers you pull.
I mean I guess I'd throw out half and half.
The marketing is a lot tougher to do because you're just worried about the impact of cutting the wrong things.
So that requires a lot more judgment.
Our retail operations guys are doing a great job as we've seen the comp metric change as we get in the back half of the year.
They're doing a great job managing the store labor to those expectations.
I think Matt also to your point as we look at the next 2 months that are ahead of us from a promotional cadence while we're going to deal with 1 less week between Black Friday and Christmas our promotional cadence and aggressiveness will be consistent with last year.
Where we may spend a little less money is national brand stuff but retail circulars and search engine optimization and all of those tools we're going to be aggressive and consistent with where we've been -- where we were last year.
The next question comes from Joe Edelstein with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> Curious on the CLUB operations and from the analysis that you did and being able to go back and take a lower provision for the loan loss.
And as I sort of now look at the total allowance and the balance and where that sits relative to the total outstanding receivables it looks like it's about 1.5% of that receivable's balance.
My question is do you think that you're now able to kind of hold that allowance balance roughly in line with that level going forward? And really what does that imply for your provision rates as we think about modeling that segment? Well I think the short answer to your question is yes.
I mean -- and we can -- I can give you more details about why we think that's right.
But as we look forward to 2014 and planning our business how we're thinking about it is -- using your ratio of 1.5% is keeping allowance fairly constant as a percent of receivables or 1.5%.
And then we'll actually have to increase it in 2014 just as the portfolio grows.
So that's one of the additional expenses that we're trying to manage as we go through 2014.
But yes I think your presumption is mostly right.
And maybe some color on the fixed pay.
Yes well on the fixed pay what happened on the fixed pay thing is back in 2008 2009 we had -- in order to help our customers meet some of their obligations we put a lot of people on a product where we would reduce the interest rate in exchange for them making a commitment to pay us.
As you can imagine these were people that had previously been delinquent.
So as you can imagine the losses in that portfolio were pretty high.
We expect them to be high and they were high.
Those loans had a 5-year maturity on them.
And we've been nervous earlier to bring the reserve down mainly because we were concerned that all the worst loans would be left at the end.
And what we found was that although the losses were multiples of the rest of the portfolio they weren't as high as we expected.
And as we got to the end of the first tranche of those we changed our assumptions not only on that tranche but other people that got put on fixed pay in 2009 2010 also.
Research Division</strong> Yes that is very helpful.
I appreciate that additional color there.
Maybe just a follow-up to that is what percentage of accounts are you effectively re-aging today? I understand it was higher with the recession but what would that look like today? Well I'm not -- I guess the only stat I could give you is what we call restructured loans are at about just over 1% of the portfolio and that's down from 1.5% a year ago.
So we're seeing those -- I'm not sure I can tell you how many new ones we're putting in.
It's much smaller than it used to be and we're seeing a lot of those pay off.
We're seeing obviously some of the old ones either pay off or charge off.
Research Division</strong> But at this point there has not been any material change to underwriting standards or anything else that we should potentially change? No.
The next question comes from Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on that labor the fixed pay plans.
But it looked like it was a little bit of a benefit in Q3.
Is that something that could continue to be reviewed moving forward? Or is that likely a bucket that we should consider empty at this point? Well I -- well obviously we'll continue to review it.
I would be surprised if -- I'd be very surprised if there was anything as meaningful as what we saw in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I guess on the Direct business can you just maybe remind us there how much of an impact there is when you open up a new store? And I guess as a corollary to that if you exclude the ammo portion are there specific aspects of the catalog or the online business that are coming under particular pressure? Well I'll answer the second question first.
The change that we saw in consumer sentiment as I said earlier seemed to be across the board in categories and also across the country in terms of geography.
There was no one place that was meaningfully better or worse.
So it was -- the slowdown seemed to be agnostic to category or geography.
The cannibalizing effect of a new store is between $2 million and $3 million per store.
So it's a meaningful number and just something we have to deal with.
As we've said earlier Sean the one interesting thing is we've announced Raleigh North Carolina and Greenville South Carolina where we have no physical presence at all.
And I'm really interested to see if our Direct business actually improves there because we have a physical presence or if we see the same cannibalizing effect and that's something that we're going to internally monitor very carefully.
One could make an argument that with a physical presence we're more top-of-mind.
And if you don't have time to go to the store you might think about Cabela's first instead of somebody who's been in the Southeast for a long time.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then maybe a quick administrative question.
Just on the traffic versus ticket in the comp how did those perform in Q3? In retail transactions were up 5 3.
You know we don't count traffic we only count transactions.
And average ticket was down 1.3% to no surprise from big-ticket guns slowing.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then maybe just real quick.
On the Q4 it sounds like the comp is down just a little bit.
Did you see any impact from potentially some national parks maybe not being around people not taking vacations being able to get into parks or hunting areas? Any sort of impact on your business you think from that? No not that aspect of it.
There was a lot of talk about national parks being closed but it's pretty hard to hunt in Yellowstone.
The only part of the country that was constricted to fishing was Biscayne Bay down in Florida that we're aware of and that wouldn't have had any effect on us.
The public lands people were able to hunt it was probably just more the noise of the uncertainty and watching what was going on in Washington that may have distracted the consumer.
But I think we're -- as we look at the balance of the fourth quarter the likelihood of more of that noise is probably lessened thank goodness.
We'll move next to Mark Miller with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on the next-gen Outpost stores.
Tommy I think in your prepared remarks you said you're generating in a range of 50% higher sales per square foot.
So can you reconcile that with what's in your deck of 450? Because I think that -- it seems like the math will [ph] put that over 500.
I mean how is it tracking on each of these new stores? And then the comps I think you said are outperforming by 280 basis points.
I think you said 600 before so I'm not sure if there's a change there or what might be causing that from the prior quarter.
In both -- the answer to your question is really both the same.
When we comment on that we're looking at it -- it's going to be volatile because we're looking at it on a quarterly basis.
For example I mean the 450 that you quoted was the same number but it was for the -- all the stores that were opened for the full year of 2012 -- I think for 2012.
So as you move forward through 2013 you're adding more and more stores into the base and also looking at shorter periods of time that can cause more volatility.
So I guess what I'm saying by all that is when we look at the same number for the full year of 2013 by that I'm talking about the 450 you would expect it to be higher.
And it's really the same thing with the comps.
We're looking at a fairly small number of stores over a very short period of time that seasonally could behave differently than the base.
But I think we still continue to think it's important to disclose those numbers to give investors some perspective about how our new stores are performing relative to the old ones.
Now I'll tell you as you move into the fourth quarter I would expect some volatility because you're going to -- and probably upward because you're going to be introducing the 3 stores we opened in the third quarter which are the 2 Denver stores and our Green Bay stores which are all performing really well.
So I hope that addresses your question Mark.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Ralph if I can just follow on to that.
So if I'm understanding then does this infer that some of the more of the recent openings I guess you just said that that those are actually tracking even better from a sales per square foot standpoint than some of your first next-gen stores more than just the comp increase you're seeing in the base business this year? Yes.
No I think that's true.
We feel really pleased with some of the new stores that are opening and those are helpful.
And I'm not sure I'd read a whole lot into up 40% moving up 50% from 1 quarter to the next.
But the overall theme is as we go now to having 18 stores that were opened for the full quarter out of a total of 48 stores we're seeing great performance out of those 18 stores consistent with what we saw with the first 2 or 3.
Now look it's not going to stay at 50% better probably forever as the 18 stores goes to 28 or 38 but we feel really good about the performance of our next-gen stores.
And Mark one thing that gets us pretty excited as you look into 2014 we are going into some very lucrative markets Greenville South Carolina.
We should have been in Anchorage Alaska 10 years ago.
We know we have huge concentrations of customers there.
Our store in Christiana Delaware is going to be adjacent to one of the most productive malls in the United States and Canada.
And our store is going to sit literally on Interstate 95 with hundreds of thousands of cars passing it every day.
We solidify our position in the Twin Cities with a third store in Woodberry.
We think Atlanta Georgia is waiting for us.
Portland Oregon is a market -- gosh our success in Springfield has just been terrific and we know customers in Oregon have been waiting for us like Anchorage for a decade.
So we get really excited when we see the markets that lay before us as 2014 unfolds.
Research Division</strong> Fantastic.
This is a great segue to the next question.
Square footage is going to be up 18% but in your press release you're indicating low- to mid-teens rate the next several years.
So what would happen here that would cause you to drop down to the low-teens? Because that would make the follow-on years beyond '14 to be low double digits.
I mean it seems -- I mean and I guess what are the constraints to -- I know the base gets bigger but what are you waiting to see? Or what are the things that govern that rate of growth beyond '14? It's really keeping our culture together because part of the magic of our stores is having knowledgeable people that before we hand them the keys to the Ferrari we've looked at them they've worked for us we know everything about how they manage and lead.
And we think that number's -- 13 or 14 stores a year we can keep a pipeline of people that we trust to manage these stores.
We have the financial capacity to build a lot more stores than that but we think we could lose our magic if we did.
So just at 13 or 14 stores a year it's just a function of the math.
You build 14 stores on a base of 60 and the percentage rate changes.
But we think this is the most profitable way to build real value for our shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Final question on the promo spend.
I think you said earlier on that you were going to be increasing promotion but I thought in answer to another question you said that cadence circulars would be the same.
So can I infer from that that maybe it's going to be in-store activity maybe a little more aggressive markdowns et cetera? Yes.
We're going to be -- our promotional cadence of books and circulars and TV and radio is going to be the same.
We'll monitor as we get into the quarter and into the holiday season.
Could be a little more aggressive but we'll just see how it unfolds.
We'll move next to Seth Sigman with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick follow-up questions.
Maybe first just about the guidance more focused on next year.
When you think about the double-digit earnings growth it sounds like you're planning for sales to be down in the first half up in the second margins up modestly.
Is the rest just coming from SG&amp;A? I mean just kind of walk us through how you get to double-digit earnings growth next year given the headwind in the first part.
Well -- and I'll talk to the full year and not to the individual quarters.
But as we think about next year we're thinking about comp store sales being flat to maybe down slightly.
The Direct business flat to up slightly with most of the revenue growth coming from new stores.
So as we think about next year -- now one of the good fortunes we have with how productive some of these new stores are that will help manage SG&amp;A.
And then to my comments earlier about what we're doing in the fourth quarter really apply to the full year which is just trying to tightly manage SG&amp;A so that we can get earnings growth to be at or slightly above where we see revenue growth being.
So that's kind of how we're looking at it for the year.
We will have to do which you should model in we're probably going to have to do a financing transaction in the back half sometime around midyear which will put upward pressure on interest expense.
So -- but we think we can get there.
We will have to manage SG&amp;A very tightly to do so.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just a follow-up on SG&amp;A.
I mean it sounds like there were some strategic investments in marketing over the last few quarters maybe taking advantage of the really strong sales.
I mean is that an area that you'll be able to pull back on potentially as the sales moderate? Yes.
Yes.
Absolutely.
That with all areas of SG&amp;A will have to be things.
And by the way the other thing I'll remind you of is we also took big bets on interest rates at our CLUB earlier in the year by going to fixed -- going to long-term fixed rate obligations as we saw improvements.
I would -- we have not finalized it yet but I would think as we move into 2014 you'll see more of a shift towards variable rate deals at least as a percentage.
And out of the fixed rate deals is another opportunity.
So...
And as Ralph noted in his prepared comments interest expense in the quarter was up from $13.8 million to $17.1 million in the quarter.
So anyway -- so there's opportunities to do that.
Having said that we'll have to work hard to do it.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And just shifting gears maybe talk a little bit about the competitive landscape.
The Denver stores opened.
It seems like that market has maybe more competitors than some other markets.
Can you maybe just talk about some of the early learnings there how those stores are performing and any implications for other markets that you may enter that have more competitors? Well I'll back up and tell you that I viewed opening 2 stores in Denver personally as probably the biggest risk that I had blessed in my 5 years with the company.
We had never done that before.
We had had so many stops and starts in the Denver market with Wheat Ridge.
And Colorado has clearly shifted a little more progressive over time and I was really concerned about whether our core customer was there.
And I couldn't have been more wrong.
So we've been really pleased.
I'm glad we opened 2 stores.
It is a competitive market and we're just really pleased with where we are.
Same thing in Ashwaubenon which is Green Bay.
That store is just doing really really well.
And it's funny.
The only days that it doesn't do well is when those Green Bay Packers are playing football at Lambeau Field which is 0.125 mile away from the stadium -- from our store but obviously taking share from somebody in that market and been really pleased.
We'll go next to Jim Chartier with Monness Crespi &amp; Hardt.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to continue asking on the SG&amp;A a couple of more specific questions.
You mentioned that firearms labor was about 23% of total labor.
What was it a year ago before the surge in firearms started? I'm sorry I don't have that number.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you give us a sense of incentive compensation if that's an area that can come down after 2 years of kind of mid to high single-digit comp sales growth? Yes let me -- let's talk about that because that's something I didn't mention.
There's no question that incentive compensation.
Well I guess there is a question.
But we're planning on incentive compensation being down year-over-year.
And actually as we move into the third and fourth quarter of this year that -- because -- that's been one of the challenges with SG&amp;A.
And the reason we accrue it evenly over 4 quarters and with the strong performance in the first half of the year we're expecting a fair amount of incentive compensation pay this year which is amortized equally over 4 quarters.
So one of the SG&amp;A challenges we had both in the third and fourth quarter is incentive comp is up in quarters where revenue has been more challenged.
So that will be a challenge in the fourth quarter.
However to your point when you move into 2014 that should be down year-over-year and one of the opportunities we have for SG&amp;A.
Jim one comment about labor at the gun counter.
As you can only imagine after the election and then after Newtown and everything that happened with regulatory threat in the first quarter we were dealing with such a volume of customers in that part of our store that we had to invest significant amounts of money just to provide a reasonable level of service.
I mean we had days where people are lined up inside the -- inside our stores waiting to purchase firearms.
So we didn't really have a choice but to scale up in -- at the gun counters just to meet an overwhelming number of people and as that comes down to reality which it is not to anyone's surprise that scenario where we just don't need the same level of staffing because we don't have people standing 5 deep and 30 feet long at the gun counter.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then last year you guys invested in marketing late in the fourth quarter to capitalize on the traffic and trends.
Was that brand advertising or was it more transaction-related? It was more transaction-related and it was things that we normally think of as benefiting our Direct business paid search catalogs and some of those sorts of things.
And it's an -- it's obviously an area we'll manage in the fourth quarter of this year.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Direct business and the omni-channel shipping I thought the initial plan was to have omni-channel capabilities in all stores in the fourth quarter this year.
Was that incorrect or you're seeing some delays there? Yes no that was incorrect.
Our plan had always been to start with a handful of stores make sure we got it right.
And I'm pleased to tell you we did get it right.
It rolled out -- glitch seems to be a popular word these days.
It was a glitch-free implementation which allowed us then to increase the pipe to more merchandise categories.
And the ultimate rollout that we need is 20 stores.
We don't have to be in 50 stores.
20 stores covers the geography we need and the inventory availability.
So full rollout will be 20 stores.
And while there are clearly revenue implications to this Jim I think there are bigger implications for our company.
Great companies like Amazon and Walmart.com and others have conditioned all of us that when you go online and buy something it's available for sale.
So in this case we've been able to take 2 000 items just in a short period of time that would have been noted as back-orderable down from cabelas.com and now they're in-stock items because we're utilizing our whole inventories.
So I think the implications of cabelas.com being a predictable place where they -- where we actually have the merchandise like best-in-class Internet providers do is maybe even more important than the short-term revenue benefits.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one last question.
On ammo when do you expect that trend will actually become a headwind for you guys? That's a really good question.
And a lot will just depend on availability of product.
In rimfire ammunition which is a pretty good category I think we're a long way off from that being a headwind.
So we'll just see and we'll keep you posted.
We'll go next...
[Technical Difficulty] I'm not sure what that was but we'll go next to Chuck Cerankosky from Northcoast Research.
That wasn't me obviously.
We do not have a boy's playwear business just for the record.
Yes that was too weird.
Although maybe the whole store is a boy's playground I guess.
That's what my wife thinks.
Good.
Hey question for you on the archery category just for fun.
How did that do in the quarter? Archery this year got off to a really big start early in the year and was quite strong.
Then it sort of softened midyear.
And I think we have really high hopes for the balance of the year.
We've just launched a new bow called the Instigator.
I would encourage you to go to Facebook and see it.
And Hunger Games 2 is released soon in early November.
And if the initial release of Hunger Games is any indication it'll have a really favorable impact on archery.
Okay.
So I would take that it was -- the category comp negative in the third quarter? Yes.
It was challenging in the quarter slightly after a really good run early in the year.
Getting back to how you opened the call Tommy about seeing this consumer sentiment change how are you measuring that? Well we had pretty solid expectations as -- remember we talked to you guys on July 24.
And July was moving along right to our expectations.
And as we got into August we just saw weakness by geography and category to pretty good expectations we had for August and September.
So we just kind of saw weakness across the board which we saw little traffic declines in the stores.
And that's kind of how we got there.
Have you followed up? Or does it involve any analyses of the point-of-sale data especially with your Visa CLUB members shifting in what they're buying and how they're buying a number of trips? No.
I think what we saw in the consumer sentiment was just anecdotally in the timing of when we saw shifts in our business relative to what was in the news.
I mean clearly it started when we saw all the talk about Syria and went through the debt ceiling discussions that we had later in the quarter.
So very broad sentiment and you can't tie it to anything other than that? Yes and it was slight too.
I don't want to overplay.
But -- and maybe our expectations were too lofty for August and September but it was a slight change that we just kind of felt.
Obviously we talked to other retailers and anecdotally we kind of heard similar things that there was a change in August that persisted.
I saw the announcement of the land management tractor line.
How -- is that going to be financed at all in connection with the bank? It will be financed but not by us.
We've got a third-party to do the financing on that.
We're 6 weeks in so we really don't have enough data to opine on how successful or not we've been.
I'd say we're pleased so far.
What we're really pleased about is the quality of the product that we're buying -- that we put our name on.
And we view that as the most important thing we could do.
If we had a great product we had a chance of penetrating this market.
And we'll obviously see -- I think probably by the second or third quarter of next year we'll have a really good sense of whether this is -- can be a meaningful market for us but obviously we thought that it was.
Are those products imported? Yes they are.
We'll take the next question from Lee Giordano with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you just update us on the performance of the Outpost stores and what you've learned so far about that store format and potentially what kind of adjustments you might make as you roll that format out next year and into 2015? Yes Lee I -- I'm sure you guys are tired of the answer it's too early to tell but we do only have 2 open.
We're opening 2 more stores 1 next week in Waco Texas and another 1 next month in Kalispell.
We expect to get more -- quite frankly the Kalispell store is probably not opening at the right time of the year.
That we won't know much about until the spring.
I think the Waco store we're really interested in looking at that to try to get more data.
What we've noticed in the 2 that are open is on one of the stores I would tell you we're slightly exceeding our expectations and the other one is slightly below our expectations.
Interestingly enough we planned them this way and they're performing this way on a per square foot basis.
They're actually doing a little worse than our next-generation stores but better than our legacy stores.
So I think it's sort of in line with what our expectations are.
We see accelerating the rollout of those slightly but until we've got 5 or 10 of them I'm not sure we're going to be changing a lot about what we do.
We continue to have teams meet on improving the performance.
And as we have more of the stores we'll be able to dedicate more resources that'll be shared across all stores.
And we're looking forward to continuing to build that concept.
We'll go next to Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up real quick Ralph on that question on the Outpost.
If sales per square foot are slightly below next-gen I know it's still early but would you look at profitability per square foot still being above given kind of the product mix that you sell in those stores? Yes but I think we still got in -- from a profit perspective one of the stores is doing a little better and the other one's doing a little worse or -- and maybe more worse than the sales are relative to our expectations.
I think we've just got a lot more work to do to figure that out.
And as we have more stores and dedicate more and more corporate people to those teams I think we're going to be able to improve the performance of those stores and see great results from our stores in the future.
So...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second I just wanted to get an update on a few things in Canada in general kind of how pleased you are with those stores as you relocated Winnipeg what you kind of learned from that and how that store is doing.
And then if you can give any update on where you stand on a credit card solution in Canada.
Well first I'll talk about the stores.
I mean we continue to be really pleased with what we're seeing in Canada.
We announced a third store for 2014 today in Nanaimo which as you may now Mark is on Victoria Island.
That'll be one of our Western stores that we're looking forward to.
I would tell you -- and that will be it for 2014.
As you look forward to 2015 we've got at least 1 store that we're very close to being able to announce and would expect to have either 1 or 2 more in addition to that.
As far as having a card solution in Canada I would tell you that continues to go -- it continues to be a personal frustration for me and continues to go much slower than what we'd expect.
And I don't see at the earliest we'd have something in 2015.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Anything on the relocation [indiscernible].
Yes.
The...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Are there any other stores that maybe in the future you could say "Hey this really worked.
We can do this again?" Well you've been to the -- you were at the old store and you've seen the new store.
So the old store is small no parking difficult to get in and out of the store.
So to say that we're pleased with the performance of the relocated store would be the understatement of the century.
The store is just doing really really well.
I mean it's bright and open and airy and reflects what our retail theme looks like.
In Canada I don't think we see at this point a need for -- I mean they're all new stores so it's kind of hard to imagine relo [relocation] in one of them.
But gosh we just continue to be thrilled with Canada and excited by the opportunity to grow our Canadian footprint at a measured thoughtful pace to build value for shareholders.
I think the learning I'm most looking forward to is when we open our store in July of 2014 in Barrie which is a northern suburb of Toronto I'll be interested to see how we perform in the more Metropolitan areas of Canada.
I mean obviously -- I mean just by where we're not the places we need to be is in Calgary we need to be in British Columbia we need to be in Ontario and we need to be in the maritime provinces.
And as we continue to expand particularly with Nanaimo although that's really not in the Greater Vancouver area but as we open up at Nanaimo and in Barrie to see how we perform in those more Metropolitan areas will be interesting.
We have one final question that comes from Anthony Lebiedzinski with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> My first question is regarding the Direct business.
Can you just talk about the magnitude of the average ticket decline that you saw in the quarter? Yes.
Well let me take that.
It was average ticket -- average order size was down less than 1% and orders were up slightly more than 1%.
LLC</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And earlier in the call you mentioned that fourth quarter to date the same-store sales were down slightly.
Can you just give us a perspective as to how comps were in the year ago period the first 3.5 weeks of the fourth quarter of 2012? I don't have the number for the 3.5-week period although I do know a year ago they accelerated during the quarter as we came up against the election and then the Newtown tragedy which is why -- and particularly in guns which is why we gave the guidance we did that we expected it to deteriorate somewhat as we move throughout this quarter.
Yes.
Last year the deeper we got into October and the closer we got to the election things started to accelerate and then after the election they accelerated further.
And then we know what happened in mid-December.
LLC</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And also can you give us an expected timeline for how the omni-channel fulfillment will progress over the next few years? At what point should we expect that to be in all the stores? Well you may not have been on the call when we talked about this earlier.
We never envisioned all stores because it's not necessary.
We see it capping at about 20 stores.
And in the right geographical dispersion that will get us close to most of our customers and access to enough inventory to satisfy omni-channel.
Obviously we need to add more as we get to midyear next year when we would have 20 stores.
We will.
But we think that 20 stores more than satisfies the need we have for omni fulfillment.
And at 20 stores we'll be able to better manage the package not going from Hamburg Pennsylvania to Billings Montana that we will have dispersion so we can get stuff more geographically located to the consumer which helps on cost also.
But I can't tell you enough how seamless this was done and it's a real compliment to our marketing teams our IT teams our retail operations and DC teams.
They've pulled this off flawlessly.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And my last question is can you give us a sense as to the expected impact from Obamacare and as far as any changes to your staffing levels between full-time and part-time labor? What we've done we've made a few adjustments there previously but we don't see anything in the future significantly driven by that from a staffing level.
And we have no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
I want to thank everybody for joining us today and we'll look forward to talking to you all again soon.
That does conclude today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Full Fiscal 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Chris Gay Director Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the bases of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Our fourth quarter financial results reflect a superior performance of our new stores and a dominant omni-channel model that continues to improve.
While we're pleased with the performance we saw in various areas of our business for the quarter we encountered several factors that kept us from meeting our expectations.
Primarily the sharp decline in ammunition sales as compared to the surge we experienced in the year-ago quarter was more significant than we planned.
The fourth quarter represents the first of 3 quarters in which we will lap the surge in firearms and ammunition we realized a year ago.
For the quarter consolidated comp store sales decreased 10.1%.
The decrease in comp store sales was primarily due to the significant decline in firearms and ammunition sales.
Comp store sales excluding firearms and ammunition were down 3.5%.
As expected with the slowdown in firearms and ammunition we saw other product categories improve.
During the quarter we saw positive comp store sales in hunting apparel footwear men's casual apparel and non-shooting hunting equipment.
Going forward we expect sales to shift out of firearms and ammunition and into our other higher-margin categories.
20 of our new format stores were opened for the full quarter and outperformed our legacy store base by more than 50% in sales per square foot and more than 60% in profit per square foot.
During the quarter we opened new stores in Waco Texas and Kalispell Montana both of which are performing very well.
Each new store we opened continues to perform significantly better than our legacy stores reinforcing our retail growth strategy.
During the quarter we had 2 new stores enter the comp base bringing the total to 10 new stores in the comp base at the end of the year.
As these new stores enter the comp base they continue to outperform.
For the quarter comp store sales for the 10 new stores in the comp base were 200 basis points better than the consolidated comp.
These new stores give us great confidence about the cadence of store openings we've announced for 2014 and for 2015.
For the quarter merchandise gross margin increased to 36.6% from 36.2% in the year-ago quarter.
This improvement was led by favorable merchandise mix as a result of the steep decline in firearms and ammunition sales.
We also saw improvement in softgoods margins which were partially offset by small margin declines in our hunting and general outdoors categories.
Continued shift of wallet share out of firearms and ammunition and into categories with deeper Cabela's branded penetration and higher margins are expected to provide modest margin improvement throughout 2014.
During the quarter we were able to improve the penetration of Cabela's branded products in all 3 of our major merchandise categories.
Specifically for the quarter Cabela's branded product as a percent of total merchandise sales increased from 28% to 33%.
The positive response we've received from our customers related to the introduction of new Cabela's branded products has been extremely encouraging.
The innovation and quality of our new Cabela's branded products will continue to have a meaningful impact on the growth of our company.
For the quarter Direct revenue decreased 4.1% which was better than our expectations.
Direct revenue was impacted by a significant deceleration in ammunition sales which was partially offset by record traffic to our cabelas.com website and higher conversion rates.
During the quarter we rolled out our enhanced mobile platform providing a more enjoyable experience for our Direct customers who prefer to shop using a mobile device.
During the quarter we continue to realize benefits of our omni-channel fulfillment program which we began implementing in the third quarter.
The benefits we've seen from our ability to fulfill customer direct orders with inventory from our retail channel are very encouraging.
Now let's take a look at our Cabela's CLUB which had another exceptional quarter.
Cabela's CLUB revenue increased approximately 23% to $102.7 million excluding the Visa settlement adjustment in the prior period.
The increase was primarily attributable to interest and fee income as well as interchange income.
This represents the first quarter of Financial Services revenue in excess of $100 million in the history of our company.
We continued to see favorable delinquency and charge-off trends.
Charge-offs remained at extremely low levels and were just 1.76% in the quarter.
Return on invested capital improved by 30 basis points to 16.2% for 2013.
With a strong belief in continuous improvement we feel that the ability to grow return on invested capital is a meaningful indicator of the future performance of our company.
The primary driver of improvements to return on capital will be the strong performance of our new more profitable new retail stores.
Before turning to guidance with the difficult comparisons we face in the first half of the year we believe it is important to provide additional intra-quarter and more specific category performance to help investors better understand business trends.
Following this unprecedented period we intend to revert back to previous guidance disclosure.
Based on our fourth quarter and year-to-date results the surge in firearms and ammunition is clearly winding down.
Recall in the fourth quarter of 2012 comp store sales were up 12%.
Although comp store sales declined 10.1% in the quarter due primarily to firearms and ammunition each being down roughly 25% to 30% we did generate positive comps in hunting apparel footwear casual men's apparel and non-shooting hunting equipment.
So far through the first 6 weeks of 2014 comp store sales are down 25% to 30% as compared to being up 35% to 40% for the same 6-week period a year ago.
And through the first 6 weeks of 2014 firearms and ammunition are down roughly 50% on a comp basis.
Accordingly we expect first quarter comp store sales to be down roughly 20% on the heels of significant declines in firearms and ammunition sales.
Despite the 50% comp decline in firearms and ammo to date as customers shift wallet share to other categories we expect most softgoods categories and some hardgoods categories to comp positively for the quarter.
Now turning to earnings guidance.
We believe that our operational improvements combined with new store performance will continue to deliver outstanding returns to shareholders.
At the same time in the next 2 quarters we expect moderation in both comp store sales and in the Direct business due to the stronger-than-expected falloff from last year's firearms and ammunition surge.
We expect first quarter 2014 earnings per share to be between $0.32 and $0.42 and full year 2014 earnings per share to increase at a high single-digit or low double-digit rate versus 2013 adjusted earnings per share of $3.32.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance of our Cabela's CLUB.
Thanks Tommy.
For the quarter we realized strong growth in Financial Services revenue exceptional performance from our new stores improved merchandise margin and outstanding performance of Cabela's branded products all of which led to further increases in return on capital.
We opened 2 new stores during the quarter and as Tommy mentioned have been very pleased with their performance.
Looking forward to 2014 we plan to open stores in: Augusta Georgia; Greenville South Carolina; and Anchorage Alaska in the first quarter.
For the second quarter we plan to open stores in: Christiana Delaware; Woodbury Minnesota; Edmonton Alberta; Missoula Montana and Lavon Texas.
In the third quarter we plan to open stores in Barrie Ontario; Acworth Georgia; Cheektowaga New York; Tualatin Oregon; Nanaimo British Columbia and Bowling Green Kentucky which will replace the opening of our Bristol Virginia store which has been postponed to 2015.
These 14 stores represent approximately 1 million new square feet of retail space or 17% square footage growth in 2014.
Today we announced plans to open 3 domestic new stores for 2015.
These include location in: Ammon Idaho near Idaho Falls; Fort Oglethorpe Georgia near Chattanooga Tennessee; and Short Pump Virginia northwest of Richmond.
This brings the total to 9 announced stores scheduled to open in 2015.
We're continuing to evaluate new sites for 2015 and even 2016 and expect to announce additional locations in the future.
For the quarter Financial Services revenue increased approximately 23% to $102.7 million excluding the Visa settlement adjustment in the prior period.
The increase in Financial Services revenue is primarily due to an 8.6% increase in average active accounts.
This account growth helped drive higher interest in fee income as well as interchange income.
For the quarter average credit card loans increased by 13.1%.
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans decreased 15 basis points from a year-ago quarter and were just 1.76%.
Additionally we continue to see improvements in delinquencies.
Greater than 30-day delinquencies were just 0.69% as compared to 0.72% a year ago.
Greater than 60-day delinquencies were 0.42% as compared to 0.46% a year ago.
And greater than 90-day delinquencies were 0.22% as compared to 0.24% a year ago.
For the quarter we reduced our allowance for loan losses by $4.1 million compared to $250 000 reduction in the year-ago quarter.
This reduction was mostly a result of declining loan balances as well as improvements in charge-offs and recoveries of restructuring credit card loans.
For the quarter Financial Services interest expense increased 23.7% to $17 million as compared to $13.7 million in the same quarter a year ago.
As discussed in our third quarter call the increase in interest expense is mostly due to our efforts to lengthen our maturities and lock in historically low fixed rates.
We expect to complete our next term securitization in either late Q1 or early Q2 2014.
During the quarter we recognized an impairment loss of $4.9 million as a result of a reduction in deferred grants related to one of our retail stores.
Additionally we reserved $9.3 million for potential adjustments to provision for income taxes that may result from audits currently in progress.
We've also recognized $3.6 million of interest expense related to these matters.
For 2014 we expect effective tax rate to be due -- be between 33% and 34%.
Now let's turn to inventory.
Inventory increased by 16.7% or $19.3 million year-over-year to $645 million.
Over the same period we've grown retail square footage by 15% with 10 new stores opening since Q4 2012.
Inventory turns for both 2013 and 2012 were 3.1x.
Additionally we're very comfortable with the quality of our inventory as we prepare to transition into our spring assortment over the upcoming months.
For the year cash flow from operations was $345 million compared to $235 million in the same period a year ago.
With our accelerating store growth plans we expect full year 2014 capital expenditures to be between $400 million and $450 million.
Cash flow from operations is expected to be between $300 million and $350 million.
Accordingly we expect to complete a small financing transaction in 2014 to fund future growth and we may renegotiate our existing credit agreement later this year to increase capacity and extend the maturity.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
Despite the near-term challenging comparisons from the surge in firearms and ammunition we experienced a year ago we continue to be very pleased with our new store productivity meaningful improvements on our omni-channel model and exceptional performance of Cabela's branded products.
As a result we're very excited about our future growth opportunities.
As we close another record year for Cabela's I'd like to take a moment to thank all of our outfitters for their passion and commitment to cherish and delight every customer every day.
With that operator let's open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Reed Anderson with Northland Securities.
Research Division</strong> Tommy from my standpoint I mean the retail business if you stripped out the tough compares and everything I mean you're really executing well there.
So I'm going to focus my couple of questions on the Direct and the -- just the brand side.
Your Direct I thought was actually a bright spot.
Obviously you'd rather be up than down.
But -- so my question is as you look at that you've taken some steps in that business the last several quarters do you feel like that is reflected in better-than-expected results? Or do you think there was an element that happened late in the fourth quarter where people basically were not wanting to go outside and so rather than go to your store maybe they shop a little more online? Curious to hear your thoughts.
Well as we've talked Reed for several quarters probably going back almost a year we've made some significant investments in technology in our Direct business.
And it started with this realization over a year ago that we had to have mobile device interfaces for our customers that were on par with desktop functionality.
So we made those investments and we saw an enormous shift in traffic to mobile devices.
I can't even imagine where a company would be us or anyone else if they did not have that robust user experience on mobile devices.
And look it was expensive and we did it.
And it made a really big difference in our business because we captured that traffic and were able to provide a great experience on mobile devices.
Additionally as we've talked we added the functionality of store-to-door capability.
We did that flawlessly without spending a lot of money.
And it made a difference in our business in the quarter and I think it will continue to.
If not just -- we didn't tell people no when we had inventory.
And we're probably not going to disclose the impact of that on Direct revenue for competitive reasons.
But I would tell you it was real.
It was important.
So I think we were really pleased notwithstanding the big downdraft as ammo fell off far sharper than we expected and of course the impact in Direct is significant.
But I think we were really pleased because we demonstrated to ourselves that we can launch and sell Cabela's and national branded softgoods and other products on cabelas.com.
And that was encouraging to us.
Research Division</strong> And a follow-up Tommy.
On the mobile side are you actually -- is it -- are you seeing the transaction be actually completed a lot on mobile beyond what you thought or is it more just having that aspect involved in the activity? No it's the transaction Reed.
And as we look -- and we'll keep you guys updated as we dig through '14.
But we've got a couple of things coming.
Personalization is a really big deal on mobile devices.
We've got that yet to come later this year and also 2-click checkout which just makes it even easier and that's coming later in the year.
So a little more to come.
But what we've done made a big difference as consumers are moving off their desktops and on to mobile devices to transact.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
I have one more question then.
And that is you talked about and referenced in the press release the penetration of the Cabela's brands from call it 28% to 33%.
When you look at that obviously it definitely reflects what you've done and kind of taking the -- you've elevated the status of the merchandise or you brought up -- you have a lot of innovation to product price points have gone up.
Is that kind of 500-basis-point move is that reflective more of what's happening with ASPs on the Cabela's side or is it just overall kind of a more holistic growth for your Cabela's brand across-the-board? No it's more holistic.
And it's not a function of just putting our brand on lots of other products.
It was -- and you can look at it by category and subcategory.
Customers really liked Zonz camo ColorPhase technology OutfitHer BOA boots our Meindl Cabela's program.
They just reacted to the product.
And you shop our stores.
I know you just see better merchandise in there.
And I'd be remiss if I didn't call out as well our strategic national branded partners and they know who they are.
They continue to help us drive success not just in Cabela's branded products but improved assortments from these strategic national branded products and it's making a big difference in our business.
Our next question comes from Seth Sigman with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First a question on the ammo being weaker in the quarter.
I think in the past you discussed that business potentially holding up in 2014.
And just trying to understand at what point did that business turned negative in the quarter? And any more color on what changed there? And I guess related to that what's the supply situation like? Is that a factor at all? Yes this is Ralph Castner.
I mean ammo did fall off in the quarter more than what we thought.
But I would tell you we're still pretty optimistic in camo.
If you are -- I'm sorry ammo.
If you look at the 2-year comp at ammo even so far -- whether you look in the fourth quarter of last year or so far in the first 6 weeks of this year it's up pretty significantly double digits on a 2-year basis in the fourth quarter of last year and it's up high single digits in the first quarter of this year on a 2-year basis.
So we -- and that's despite the 2-year trend on guns being flat to down.
So we're pretty optimistic that ammo is going to have a water tail.
I just think it was so hot in Q4 and particularly in Q4 last year and to some extent in Q1 of this year that it fell off more than we thought.
But we're still really optimistic about ammo as we move through 2014.
And with respect to supply there have been -- in certain rimfire categories there have been some supply constraints.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess just in general in light of the uncertainty this year I guess what gives you confidence in the earnings growth that you're projecting? I mean can you walk us through some of the things that you feel like are a little bit more within your control that you're working on to kind of help get to that earnings growth that you're projecting? Maybe any specific levers you can pull on the expense side some of the margin drivers that you briefly touched on earlier? Well Seth I think as we commented in the last call we started working on expense frugality starting in August of next year.
And that's an ongoing continuous process that we believe we've reflected in our guidance.
I think what gives us great confidence I've seen our spring and fall assortments for this year.
They're really really good.
And at the end of the day we often forget we're in the merchandise selling business.
So I think the wallet share shift to a more profitable product categories both Cabela's branded and our strategic branded partners gives us confidence.
New stores I mean we just keep opening one new store after another and they're performing at very high levels.
And then you look at the Direct business and we just continue to make operational improvements there.
We're getting better at omni-channel marketing and now with omni-channel fulfillment as a capability you kind of add all those things up.
And look we'll see where guns and ammo end up.
The first 2 quarters will be challenging but we ought to return to more normal trends later this year.
So I think we tried to put our guidance in those terms of positives yet the downdraft of guns and ammo.
Seth let me add a couple of things just to Tommy's comments.
First of all one thing that's really lost on people is our card business is still growing at 13%.
That's a great business with -- that's going to continue to add profitability.
We did roll out net SKU profitability this year which we think is going to help us manage some of the expenses that Tommy talked about.
And just one thing that's really lost on people.
Our preopening cost this year went from $12 million to $22 million in '13.
Now obviously they're going to keep going up from there as we open more stores in '14 but it shouldn't be at nearly the rate that we saw last year.
All of which is going to help us continue to get to those earning targets that we've put out there.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
And to follow up on the expenses.
So I think last year and in '13 you also saw some big increases in labor cost both at the store level and maybe corporate and then I think marketing was also higher.
I mean are there specific buckets within there that can be trimmed to help manage that? Yes Seth.
We're continuing to look all across the company to find all sorts of areas for expense cuts.
And I can give you a bunch of individual examples but it's just a lot of hard work that we're finding it $1 million at a time.
And the whole organization's working on it and it's amazing some of the suggestions that some of our outfitters have given us for opportunities going forward.
Our next question comes from Rick Nelson with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to ask you about the non-gun ammo part of the business.
Last quarter you talked about non-gun comps being up 5.3%.
This quarter non-gun ammo comps were down 3.5%.
I'm curious how we should think about that.
And is that losing the attachment to the firearm sales or is it something else that the environment sort of...
Well Rick I think it's probably a couple of things.
The holiday season environment I think we encountered probably a macro softer holiday season by a little bit.
But don't forget we started lapping the surge in early November which lapped election day a year ago when all these kind of started and then it accelerated through mid-December.
I think what encouraged us a little bit when we looked at new to file customers while they -- we weren't adding new to file customers at the same pace we did in the first quarter for obvious reasons just the volume of traffic coming into our website and our stores we continue to have healthy increases in Q4.
And those customers behaved pretty similarly in their baskets and attachment rates as they have been performing.
So I think the down 3.5% comp was just probably purely a function across our enterprise of a little less traffic coming into the stores and a slightly tougher holiday season as it compressed from 5 weeks to 4.
Just -- I've taken a thousand questions in the last 12 months about the impact of product categories and traffic and all that kind of stuff.
And I think we try to make it really clear in the release.
I think there's enough data out there to really show how people behaving in the fourth quarter when guns and ammo were down mid-20% kind of range.
We saw almost every single clothing category comp up.
The only other category that comped down anywhere near double digits was optics which does make some sense because of the high attachment rate between optics and guns.
But no other category comped down more than double digits.
Some of the hardgoods categories did comp down although hunting equipment outside of firearms and ammunition comped up which we're encouraged about.
As we look forward to the first quarter and as we've talked about we -- it's really sort of more of the same thing where we expect most of the softgoods categories to comp up for the quarter as well as some of the hardgoods categories.
Those things like guns firearms optics and to some extent ammunition are going to be tough but the rest of the categories are hanging in there pretty well about like we expected where we'd see a shift out of firearms and ammunition into some of these categories.
And we're pretty pleased about it.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned the first quarter Ralph carryouts with a negative 20 comp.
You're seeing pretty big deleverage that would appear on SG&amp;A.
If you could comment there.
Well I think there's no question we are -- obviously as we're thinking about making profit targets for 2014 we're putting in a lot -- we're identifying expenses throughout the entirety of the year.
So yes I would expect to deleverage in the first quarter.
And we're putting in a lot of cost-savings initiatives which when we -- which we will benefit from over the entirety of 2014.
And we think we've reflected that Rick in our guidance.
Hence the reason to give clarity for Q1 more specifically than we've ever done.
Rick back to the store performance or the kind of category performance commentation my takeaway from all of that is this which is really over the last 2 -- or if you look -- and the same applies by the way if you look at the first quarter of '14 or the fourth quarter of '13 but our comp store sales were basically at the same level they were 2 years ago which in the case of the first quarter of '14 when guns are off 50%.
So I think we feel reasonably good about that.
Would we like them to be up on a 2-year basis? Absolutely.
But the fact that we're comping near flat on a 2-year basis depends -- actually we're -- I think we're up a little bit in the fourth quarter down a little bit in the first.
But the fact that we're flat on a 2-year basis with the kind of change we've seen in firearms and ammunition we think is pretty encouraging.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Also interested on what's happening in the margins with guns and ammos as demand has been impacted.
Have you seen pressures there? Yes a little bit of pressure Rick and probably not -- to no surprise as the products are coming back into availability and we're able to start promoting guns and ammunition again.
And if you remember a year ago we didn't have enough supply to even run ads or have catalogs or omni-channel events that included guns which naturally lifts margin.
So we have seen some compression yet as we balance it with the shift to higher-margin products.
That's why I said in the formal script we still expect margin rate increase when you mix it all out.
I will give you a brief anecdote.
We advertised guns and ammunition beginning last Thursday for a 5-day ad period.
And we're pleasantly surprised at the customer response from a revenue standpoint albeit at lower -- a little lower margins.
But it did give us confidence that if we can start our promotional cadence again as we get through this bubble we'll have a healthy gun and ammunition business that in the back half of the year should eke out comps.
Research Division</strong> And May is when the compares start to normalize in your view? Yes.
Our next question comes from Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to follow up on the comps.
Can you -- is there a way to -- I would assume that the mix away from guns puts a lot of pressure on ticket.
Do you have any sense for -- can you give us a sense for what you saw with store traffic versus ticket in the fourth quarter and maybe into Q1? Well in the fourth quarter transactions -- we don't measure total traffic coming in.
But transactions were down 5% and ticket was down 5% to no surprise with -- we're not selling $1 000 modern sporting rifles and baskets full of ammunition.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then obviously there's been a lot of not-so-great weather.
Can you comment on whether there were any transitory issues that may have impacted the fourth quarter or even into the first quarter as well? Well -- I mean it was really cold in a lot of places in the fourth quarter but if you look at it from a number of days stores were opened or closed there was no difference year-over-year '13 to '12.
Now could one make an argument that it was so cold in the upper Midwest people didn't come and shop? We're not going to make that argument.
In fact cold weather helped to sell nice garments that we make healthy margins on.
So we would call weather more of a neutral.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then the implied comp trend in the second half I don't know if that quarter is perfectly linear but it seems like you think that we're going to be down maybe 5% or 10% in the second half of the quarter we're in.
What are you thinking on a 2-year trend as we get into the back half of this quarter? I guess I don't know that I'd given it that much thought intra-quarter.
I mean what we're seeing on 2-year trend is pretty flat.
And we've really seen that but we saw it -- if you look at the fourth quarter in the entirety that's true.
If you look at the first 6 weeks of this quarter it's true.
So I guess I would expect on a 2-year basis it'll stay flat.
But we have noticed -- and Tommy alluded to it with the increased promotional cadence the last week or so we've noticed a pretty significant change in the absolute performance of our business.
For the better.
For the better.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- and just lastly and I think it relates to that comment.
You're -- you ended the quarter with inventory up pretty significantly year-over-year.
What's the potential impact of that to gross margins in the first half or maybe there's some other issues around inventory that explain that? There aren't any Matt.
I tell you of all the things we feel fantastic about is the quality of our inventory.
We're going to exit winter goods cleaner than we've ever done.
And remember we're opening 10 stores in '14 that we bought inventory for and we've got some really big stores coming in the first 4 or 5 months of the year.
So you shouldn't be alarmed by inventory growth.
We -- the quality of our inventory is absolutely fantastic.
Our next question comes from David Magee from SunTrust Robinson Harwood -- Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 questions.
One the -- with regard to your assumptions regarding the trajectory of firearm demand this year do you anticipate that to have any sort of impact on new store performance? Maybe let us know of any differences in the mix with new stores versus say legacy stores with firearms.
No.
To give some comfort in that you've got to -- at least relative to the expectations we built in these stores that were opened in 2014 were probably done based upon mix that we saw in 2011 or 2012 when we're out scouting those stores.
So I don't -- we don't expect that to have a significant impact on new store performance at least relative to our original expectations.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Secondly do you anticipate significant incremental cost this year being encouraged? Just surrounding issues around credit card security those type of things.
No David we don't.
A couple of facts for you.
As -- we have routine maintenance programs that replace card readers as they obsolete themselves across the whole enterprise in the U.S.
and Canada.
So for a couple of years we've been replacing readers and we'll continue to do that as we move forward.
Our new stores obviously have new readers.
Canada's already converted.
So we don't have anything out of the ordinary at the point of sale.
As we march to the potential of cards with chips in them in 2015 there could be a couple of million dollars of impact in '15.
But that would assume a big bang everybody gets a new card and likely that's not going to happen.
It'll be -- there'll be a phase in.
They'll stagger it.
So no real impact from that.
And obviously like any other retailer on the planet we have redoubled re-tripled and re-quadrupled our focus on enterprise-wide security not just at POS.
But like everyone we had hack attempts every day in non-POS systems.
So we think we can manage that within the guidance range that we've given.
But obviously we've refocused.
We feel good about where we are but we're redoubling and re-tripling our focus.
Our next question comes from Jim Duffy from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question why did you guys not prerelease these results in the guidance? We gave some thought to that.
But particularly given some of those tax things we're working on late in the quarter we just want to make sure we felt really comfortable with that.
And we didn't have a history of prereleasing so we've made the decision not to do that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Ralph with respect to the change in view for '14 from double digit off a higher number to a high single digits to low double-digit EPS you've got a slightly higher tax rate range in there.
Can you quantify some of the other factors that changed with respect to your outlook? It sounds like some of the changing ammo trends are one.
Maybe if you could list off -- put some shape around the dollar amount associated with that and some of the other factors as well? Well I think you mainly have got them.
I mean the tax rate was a factor.
Clearly the fourth quarter results were a factor.
And what we saw in ammo particularly as we left Q4 and going into Q1 were some of the primary factors that influence our decision-making on that.
Jim I think we wanted to just be more cautious until we see where ammo ultimately settles.
And we were making those decisions in the last 3 weeks or so and just probably an air of conservatism more than anything.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then...
And I say -- Jim I say that because we still -- we couldn't be more excited about the next 3 to 5 years in our company.
I mean we've got -- the stores that we're opening in '14 are -- I think are going to be blockbuster stores in places we should've been a long time ago.
And as I said to Reed earlier we couldn't feel better about our product innovation pipeline.
And as we start doing more in hardgoods with real high-quality Cabela's branded products we just feel really good about the business.
We just got to get through these 3 quarters where the surge was just kind of out of control last year.
Jim you also -- you asked me about preopening -- or preannouncing.
I think another factor in it is we want to make sure that we -- there's a lot -- we think there's a lot to tell about our performance both in the fourth quarter and the first quarter.
We want to make sure we had a forum like this for an open discussion to talk about it.
The comments I made earlier about mix of product categories I think are an important part of the story as we move forward.
And you see that those categories are continuing to perform really well even when firearms are off.
And being able to explain the entirety of the story was another big factor.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay makes sense.
I'm going to dig into the next-gen stores a little bit.
You mentioned in the press release 11 of them doing in excess $500 a square foot.
I'm sure you've done this analysis.
What does your next-gen sales per square foot look like if you kind of scrape off to get to a normalize rate of gun and ammo demand? How much is it to give back from that excess of $500 a square foot? Well there's some.
And I guess I'd tell you -- I don't know.
You got to remember the $500 a square foot included the fourth quarter which already gave back a fair amount of gun and ammo.
I would tell you in totality maybe there's another 5%.
But I mean we still feel really good.
Obviously doing $500 a foot plus is really good and that's the average of all of them.
Some of them are doing much better than that.
Jim as it relates to new stores you'll notice the store in just south of Chattanooga in Fort Oglethorpe Georgia is a 70 000-square-foot store which kind of fits in a size range between the 40 000-foot stores and the 80s.
And it's a -- it'll be the first prototype that we do at that size in North -- in the United States.
And as we continue to look at market opportunities we've seen a fair amount of stores that are -- markets that are too small for an 80 000 and too big for a 40 000-foot store.
So we're excited to see how this prototype's going to roll out.
The façade of the building will look a lot more like our 80 000- and 100 000-foot next gen.
So it'll have this big gable roof and a lot of windows.
And you should expect to see that come into the mix.
And it looks like we're settling in on 40s 60s 70s and 80s with a few hundreds sprinkled in over the next 3 to 5 years.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One final question and I'll let someone else jump in.
I'm curious the ammo trend differences that you saw between the Direct and retail was it pretty much a parallel trend where it fell off at exactly the same time or would one kind of outperform the other? What I'm trying to get at Ralph is how much of it was store traffic versus just kind of directly correlated to everybody having enough ammo.
Well I'm not sure I'm going to be that helpful in that in trying to get into your question.
And the reason was is because a year ago the results were very different.
I mean ammo was -- I'll try to directionalize this a little bit for you.
Ammo was up in comp store sales but it was up call it double for lack of a better word.
But in the Direct business it was up by several multiples.
And to -- so to try to kind of...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is on fourth quarter '12 right? No I'm sorry.
I'm talking about first quarter of '13.
But in first quarter of '13 ammo was just way -- here's the takeaway without quantifying.
Ammo was just way way stronger in Direct a year ago whether you're talking about the fourth quarter -- the fourth quarter or the first quarter in the year-ago quarter ammo was way stronger in Direct than it was in retail.
So obviously the magnitude of the falloff wasn't as great.
And that's just a function of we only have 50 -- a 50-store footprint in a big country.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And by the way -- I'm sorry but to add on to that.
And then when the -- but when you couldn't find it in any store a year ago in the country ours or anybody else's everybody came online to buy it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
You'll expect a sharper falloff in the Direct business.
Just to...
Absolutely right and we're seeing it.
Our next question comes from Jim Chartier with Monness Crespi and Hardt.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate all the color and the quarter-to-date trends.
I was wondering if you could just answer one last question on that.
What were firearms and ammo comping up in the first 6 weeks of last year? In the first 6 weeks of last year and again I'm giving you -- they were near 100%.
So call it double.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
So we're down 50 against a near double.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you're flat on 2 years.
And so it looks like the rest of the business x guns and ammo is also kind of flattish on a 2-year basis the first 6 weeks of the year.
Yes.
Yes.
And Jim remember the first 6 weeks of the year and the rest of the business is kind of clearance season and we haven't done fall rolls yet.
And we're kind of approaching the end of the winter season although not this year maybe for a lot of people on the call.
But January is a -- the first 6 weeks of January and the rest of the business are real seasonal low point in volume.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the preopening expenses will that be up on a year-over-year basis in first quarter? It looks like the store openings are more geared towards the first half of this year than they were last year.
Yes.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- so then preopening expenses could be flat to down in the next 3 quarters? I mean yes.
To help quantify it I mean we spent last year $22 million on preopening costs.
And at least looking at the fourth quarter we spent $5 million in the fourth quarter.
So I think you could assume they were fairly even.
So I don't expect it to be a big driver in any one quarter.
I mean it'll maybe go from $5 million to $6 million in the first quarter.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then it looks like you guys are losing little bit of market share just looking at the adjusted mix data.
Is that a function of you having better supply last year? Could you just talk a little bit about that? Yes.
I think we've said in a number of conferences we don't focus as much on the mix data as you guys do.
But I would suspect we had such better supply because we made some really big bets in the late summer of 2012 on supply of both ammunition and guns.
So we probably got a little more share from having supply until we ran out like everybody else.
But when I -- Jim when I think about share you got to think about -- we built 2 stores in Denver Colorado where we didn't have any share unless they drove to Grand Junction.
And the performance of those stores -- I mean we're taking share from somebody in that market in a big way.
It -- ditto for Grand Rapids and Columbus Ohio.
And I mean I could keep going on.
So that's why we don't pay that much attention to the core share numbers from mix.
We obviously looked at them.
But as we keep building stores we're just taking aggregate share in a pretty big way.
Our next question comes from Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Ralph I guess this is a question for you and Tommy because it spans the Cabela's CLUB business.
It was up -- it did really well in the quarter.
And that suggests to me that consumers were using the card for their Christmas shopping at a number of venues yet it sounds like you got hit by some macro events within the stores apart from the guns and ammo trend falling off.
And I was wondering if you could sort of square that thought I have that suggest a little bit of inconsistency versus how the stores performed or merchandise performed versus your Finance subsidiary.
Well I'm not -- well let me comment on the growth in the card business.
And I just -- I think there's a bunch of different factors going on.
But in the card business what we saw is that accounts were up 8.6% on average -- which deaccelerated a little bit from the previous quarters of the year.
And we just saw that as a function of the traffic in the store being off to some extent.
The average balance was up 4.1% which actually has been an acceleration to your point of what we saw earlier.
And I think you know this but 97% of our spend is elsewhere.
So I think what we saw in our business was largely a function of what we saw in firearms and ammunition.
And then what you saw elsewhere is that our cardholders are out spending their -- spending money on our card and that business performed really well.
I'm not sure I'm trying to make too strong of a linkage to those 2.
No because that would be comparing us to gasoline purchases and restaurants and all kinds of unrelated things.
But to the question we got earlier on why we're optimistic about '13 the fact that that business is growing at 13% we're pretty encouraged about.
And by the way we'll - I don't know if it'll accelerate any but with opening 14 stores next year.
11 of them in the U.S.
because Canadian ones obviously don't count but we'll continue to see nice growth in that business.
That's helpful.
Just to make sure I enumerate what was the number of stores at year end? 50.
Spot on 50.
Okay good.
That's why I remember it.
Yes.
When you're talking about some of your efforts to merchandise the Cabela's brand products getting into hardgoods and offsetting some of the pressure in the firearms categories what new merchandise categories are you looking at if any? Well we -- the newest merchandise category we added was a whole line of Northern Flight waterfowl hardgoods decoys bags layout blinds all of those things that fall into hardgoods.
And the consumer reaction was just fantastic.
So you look at their -- you just go in one of our stores and there are just opportunities for us.
We did very well in game cameras with Cabela's branded products.
So just -- we're just going to thoughtfully by category expand.
One of our real successes from a social media standpoint was in our Regulator and Instigator bows which is clearly a hardgoods category.
And again customers love those products and bottom and we see further expansion opportunities in optics.
So we're just going to thoughtfully do just what we did in softgoods expand where we see opportunities.
And I think it's a long runway of opportunity if we do it right.
Our next question comes from Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> You guys -- would you mind just giving us maybe an update on the Outpost stores? I know we've got a few of them out there.
Just how those are performing and updated thoughts on that particular prototype.
I would tell you they're performing about in line with our expectations.
On a per-square-foot basis they're not performing as well as some of our next-generation stores but way better than our legacy stores.
And I guess to give you some things about how we're thinking about it we feel really certain that we need a 40 000-square-foot format to go to a lot of smaller markets across the country.
And Tommy talked to you about our efforts around a 60 000- or 70 000-square-foot store.
The question we wrestle with is whether or not we need to differentiate that store from a marketing and operational standpoint.
And you'll even notice we were kind of getting away from talking about them as Outpost stores and just talking about the entire set of them as new stores.
So these smaller stores are going to continue to be very very important to us.
How we refer to them from a marketing and operations standpoint may change over time.
Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then on the -- in the release.
I think you said the next-gen stores are comping about 200 basis points ahead of the chain overall.
This -- I think that's down from the 600 basis points you had talked about earlier I think in -- at the end of Q2.
Is this just a reflection of the mix inside of the store or is there some of these stores maybe not coming on quite as strongly as some of the initial stores? No.
I'd tell you the biggest thing is -- and maybe we should just discuss the ones that are just there in the comp base.
But now we're getting a big set of those stores some of which are several years old so they're comping on top of themselves which has got one of the things that's going to drive the absolute rate down.
But we feel really good about the stores now that they're comping.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess on the -- an update maybe on the cannibalization that you're potentially seeing or not seeing for that matter.
Anything that -- any updated thoughts there as you put in more stores? Are you bringing in cannibalization from any of the existing stores in the area? We continue to see less cannibalization than we ever expected in almost every location.
And Sean Denver is the great example.
I mean these 2 stores are 30 miles apart.
And both are just doing extremely well and both are exceeding our expectations by a wide margin.
And they're 30 miles away from each other.
So it's forcing Ralph and our real estate guys to think more about markets and maybe we're wrong about market capacity.
We're going to open Woodbury Minnesota in the Twin Cities.
It'll be our third store up there in May and that'll be an interesting indication of just what kind of capacity there are in markets.
But so far so good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess as -- the last question is on the Direct business.
It seems -- and I think I've asked this before is it does seems like you may have turned a corner in this business.
Are you guys willing to say that yet just given the performance that you had in the fourth quarter with obviously opening up a number of new stores which I think you've said $2 million to $3 million of cannibalization big drag from ammunition obviously year-over-year and yet you're only down about $15 million? It seems to be a real positive.
Well just as a matter of culture and in the spirit of continuous improvement declaring victory is never something we do in our company because you can always get better.
So with that as a preface I'll tell you that we feel very good about user experience improvements our ability to leverage social media our ability to have world-class content on cabelas.com and our ability to fill from stores.
So -- and our ability to launch new products on cabelas.com.
Now on the other side we've got cannibalization issues as we build new stores in places we haven't been before.
So none of the good things are purely incremental.
But we're on a path of continuous improvement.
And I think we're very pleased with where we are right now.
But you'll never hear us declare victory in any part of our business because that says there's no more to improve and we don't feel that way ever.
Our next question comes from Mark Miller with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I think we all agree there's many many positive long-term drivers of stores and brand merchandising.
You guys are great operators.
I think one of the things we're trying to get at for your stock is that in 2014 the first quarter you're down 40% 50%.
If I'm understanding the guidance up 20% to 30% rest of the way in the year.
Now I don't know if I've seen that kind of a shift in 20 years and so there's some very exceptional circumstances.
But I think it'd be helpful just to maybe lay out what you see for comps for the full year? And then Ralph I know you talked a lot about some of the G&amp;A reductions.
Is there a way to kind of I guess aggregate that or dimensionalize what some of the savings can be just to give us more visibility on how that progresses through the year? Well I don't think we're prepared to discuss comps by quarter for the rest of the year as in obviously we expect them to get better.
But -- and even with regard to SG&amp;A there are just I mean hundreds -- I mean I can give you big ones and little ones.
There's hundreds of examples where people who've got teams of people working on taking cost out.
I mean one of the simple ones quite frankly is incentive comp which will almost certainly be down between 2013 and 2014 several million dollars.
We already talked about the increase in preopening costs which were up $10 million in '13 versus '12.
That'll continue to be up but not at the same level.
We've made a lot of improvements in just to kind of our corporate expenses and taking a lot of those out which continues to help.
We've actually hired a new person to help us manage credit card fees that's already found several million dollars of savings there on a full year basis.
Now we won't get those all in place until later in the year but we think there's a couple of million dollars there.
So we've just challenged our people across the whole company to continue to find those types of savings that anyone of them might only be $0.5 million to a $1 million or to a $1.5 million but you get 10 or 20 of them it's real money.
Research Division</strong> The comp for the year though is it -- I'm guessing you're kind of low single-digit decline for the year.
Is that roughly what's in your range? Yes.
I would tell you we -- 3 months ago we're probably thinking of a smaller number than that.
Down but not down mid-single digits.
That's probably moved -- as we've gone through the year that's probably come down just a little bit.
So maybe it get you to mid-single digits.
But I would tell you 3 or 4 months ago we're thinking about being down a low single-digit comp and we probably added maybe 100 or 200 basis points to that.
Because of ammunition.
Just because of ammunition as we've gotten into the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
Then on the 2-year comp being flattish and Tommy I think it's a fair point January is not the critical month in the year but -- I mean this is a business that we think of as clearly a growing business.
And so -- and you think there's any risk to that -- you've had this surge in traffic.
I mean that some of the consumer might've just upgraded the whole line of goods and equipment.
And is there a risk that we stay flattish on a 2-year basis for some time? Well I don't know about for some time.
It could certainly happen in the first 2 quarters.
But I think that's part of the reason I went through the whole discussion about how we're doing in an individual category.
Because I think there's some -- even in the fourth quarter the fact that our softgoods categories comped up or most of them did and we expect most of them to comp up in the first quarter I think it's really encouraging about the long-term trends in our business.
I mean where we're seeing the challenge from a comp perspective are those categories that are directly attached to the firearm primarily ammo and optics.
Mark even in the fourth quarter acquisition of new customers was up 12.5% which is a pretty big number.
So we're still attracting new customers to our franchise.
Research Division</strong> No.
You guys are the winner here.
But yes I'm just trying to understand.
This whole shift is very tough analytically.
Final question for me if you could give us a percent of sales of firearms and ammo just roughly where you ended for 2013.
Just -- it helps understand some of the shift going forward.
Yes.
In totality across Direct everything else it was about ammo was about 10%.
Firearms was slightly higher than that.
Yes.
It was 13% is the exact number so 10% in ammo 13% in firearms.
That's for full year.
Research Division</strong> All of 2013 great.
Yes.
Our next question comes from Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Real quick just looking at the Direct business.
Top line was good.
But just looking at the operating margin in that business it seem to see some deceleration.
Can you discuss that a bit? Well I got to tell you -- and I'll talk a little bit about what we're going to do next year.
I don't spend as much time thinking about the profit as a percent of sales.
They're mainly because the Direct business probably gets over-allocated to advertising costs.
Any -- well basically any advertising cost except for radio local TV and newspaper flyers gets allocated to the Direct business.
One of the things we're looking at doing for next year is just allocating each channel a fixed percentage of revenue as advertising and creating a common pool because those lines on advertising are blurring greatly between channels.
So for example if we run something digitally even if you go to the Yahoo! Facebook page and it says visit whatever the Denver store that gets charged to the Direct business.
And those lines you just can't split them that way anymore.
So I wouldn't spend a lot of time thinking about the contribution to the Direct business in the fourth quarter.
As we move into next year when we start having a constant percent of sales get charge for advertising it'll be a lot more meaningful.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That helps.
And then just talking about...
And by the way -- I'm sorry as it relates to the Direct business the single biggest expense item in the Direct business is advertising.
About all else it gets charges are call centers and some of our Internet expenses.
I'm sorry go ahead.
I'll let you ask the next question.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just looking at competition and kind of some of your new stores and we've talked about your Woodbury store really coming right in the heart of kind of Gander Mountain country.
This new store in Idaho Falls you're right down the street from probably one of the better Sportsman Warehouse.
Is there anything that concerns you as you move more to Bass Pro and competition or do you guys feel you can go to head -- head-to-head really with anybody? Well we go head-to-head with all of these guys everywhere anyway.
Bass is a really good operator.
We square off with them in Phoenix Omaha Dallas Fort Worth.
Our store in Louisiana Denver and ditto for Sportsman's Warehouse multiple overlaps; ditto for Gander Mountain.
So no I think our success in the southeast Mark is going to hang on our ability to get assortments right especially fishing assortments right.
And needless to say our merchant teams and our virtual merchandising teams and our marketing teams have been doing extraordinarily deep dives in those markets to make really sure that our assortments are spot on in those southern markets.
We're taking extreme caution to make sure we're right.
Our next question comes from Anthony Lebiedzinski with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> So last quarter you guys talked about improving your store labor productivity given that the gun business is so labor-intensive.
So now the demand for that has kind of more normalized have you been able to do that or can you just discuss whether you're able to get some of that in -- for the quarter? And what's your outlook for 2014? Yes that's still an opportunity for us.
And I tell you it's something we're continuing to work on.
We think there's an opportunity to some extent with store labor and it's something we're working on.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then I just wondering as far as the softer demand for ammunition was that in anyway magnified by seasonality of the business given that the hunting season for the most part is in the third quarter traditionally? No I don't think so.
LLC</strong> No? Okay.
And as far...
It's just the extraordinary levels of the year ago.
I'd say if there's a seasonality component it's in Q1.
Because in Q1 where you've got our seasonally weakest time of the year yet the strongest demand for firearms and ammo which is why you're going to -- at least as we've talked about you're going to see a big headline number in the first quarter just because it was so big relative to the...
Disproportionately big.
Yes disproportionate to the seasonal performance of that store or that...
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then how should we think about the penetration levels for private label products? Certainly nice increase in the quarter that you discussed.
So going forward what -- where should we think about that metric going up to? Well I'm not going to give you a number but you should expect it to rise as we continue just this thoughtful expansion of our brand in balance with our great strategic branded partners.
And really -- I mean the best way to think about that and we'll -- we can give more color on this as we go throughout the year is thinking about it by a product category where -- by the way -- and particularly in softgoods we saw a big improvement with the Zonz camo stuff that a -- that's really [indiscernible] our customers.
So it's more important to look at it by a product category.
Because as we move forward with more retail stores that is a headwind because you start selling more firearms more ammunition doesn't -- which doesn't have as high of Cabela's branded product penetration.
It appears we have no further questions in the queue at this time.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you all very much and we'll talk to you soon.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Inc.
First Quarter Fiscal 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Chris Gay Director Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks Chris and good morning everyone.
Our first quarter financial results provide further evidence of exceptional new store performance validating that our growth strategy is working well.
Additionally the 3 new stores opened thus far in 2014 located in Augusta Georgia; Greenville South Carolina; and Anchorage Alaska marked our entrance into new and exciting markets where our customers have shown overwhelming support.
During the quarter we also saw an increase in the sales penetration of our Cabela's branded products specifically in softgoods as well as growth in our Cabela's CLUB Loyalty Program.
During the quarter we lapped the peak surge in firearms and ammunition sales from a year ago.
Our focus on tightly managing expenses throughout the quarter combined with the strong performance from our Cabela's CLUB program resulted in earnings per share within our guidance.
We will maintain our focus on operating expense management as we lap the remainder of the firearms and ammunition surge from a year ago.
As the prior year results continue to normalize we believe that the opportunities we took advantage of to improve our business over the past year will become increasingly evident.
At the end of the first quarter for the trailing 12-month period the 14 new stores that were open for the full period at sales per square foot of nearly $500 outperforming our legacy store base by approximately 46%.
We continue to be pleased with the performance of our new stores and it is important to note that the sales penetration of firearms and ammunition within each of our store formats is nearly identical.
These new stores give us great confidence about the cadence of store openings we've announced for 2014 and 2015.
For the quarter consolidated comp store sales decreased 21.7%.
The decrease in comp store sales was primarily due to the significant decline in firearms ammunition and other shooting-related categories.
Comp store sales excluding firearms and ammunition were down 12.4% and excluding firearms ammunition and other shooting-related categories were down 8.5%.
For the quarter comp store sales of softgoods and general outdoors declined at a high single-digit rate.
Footwear comped down slightly; while hunting apparel powersports and women's and children's apparel comped down mid-single digits.
Men's apparel hunting equipment home and gifts and archery all comped down low teens.
While hard to measure some of this decline is undoubtedly driven by less traffic which was not entirely offset by wallet share gains as customers shift out of firearms and ammunition.
Additionally the late start to spring further challenged comp store sales in both softgoods and general outdoors categories.
With the arrival of spring we expect improvements in the performance of our softgoods and general outdoors assortments.
First quarter firearm sales are trending at 2011 to 2012 levels.
Retail ammunition sales during the quarter were slightly above levels seen in the first quarter of 2012.
Comp store sales showed sequential improvement throughout the quarter a trend we expect to continue throughout the lap of the surge in firearms and ammunition.
Second quarter comp store sales to date are down approximately 16%.
For the full second quarter we expect comp store sales to be down 10% to 13%.
During the quarter Cabela's branded product continued to show meaningful improvement.
As a percent of total softgood sales Cabela's branded product increased by 470 basis points to 58.7% from 54% in the year-ago quarter.
This is extremely encouraging as the Cabela's brand continues to offer the highest quality and most technically advanced products including XPG Guidewear Zonz camouflage clothing and OutfitHer just to name a few.
The strength of our brand has never been greater and we are very excited for the innovative new Cabela's branded products we will be offering to our customers throughout the year.
Now let's take a look at our Cabela's CLUB which had another exceptional quarter.
Cabela's CLUB revenue increased approximately 15% to $98.6 million.
The increase was primarily attributable to interest and fee income as well as interchange income.
We continue to see favorable delinquency in charge-off trends.
Charge-offs remained at extremely low levels and were just 1.8% in the quarter.
For the quarter direct revenue decreased 20.3% as a result of the significant decline in ammunition and other shooting-related categories.
As we look at the trends in Direct ammunition sales over the past several years first quarter Direct ammunition sales are consistent with levels we saw prior to the year-ago surge.
Our omni-channel improvements continue to gain traction as improved conversion rates increase traffic to our new mobile site and benefits from our omni-channel fulfillment program during the quarter have been very encouraging.
During the quarter our ability to tightly manage expenses resulted in operating expense growth of 4.7% while we grew retail square footage by 14%.
The expense initiatives already in place will continue to yield benefits for the remainder of 2014 as we expect mid- to high-single digit expense growth for each of the remaining quarters of the year.
For the quarter merchandise gross margin decreased 112 basis points from 34.4% from 35.6% in the year-ago quarter.
Margins in firearms and ammunition declined to pre-surge levels as a result of improved supply and testing of certain aggressive promotions within specific categories of firearms and ammunition.
A slower start to spring resulted in a higher-than-expected sales mix of discontinued cold-weather merchandise.
Margin movement in the second half of 2014 will be driven by new product performance in soft goods as well as more normal promotional cadence.
Now turning to earnings guidance.
Expense initiatives already in place together with strong new store performance increases in Cabela's branded products and growth in Cabela's CLUB will drive earnings growth for full year 2014.
As a result we reaffirmed our previous full year guidance and continue to expect 2014 earnings per share to increase at a high single-digit to low double-digit rate versus 2013 adjusted earnings per share of $3.32.
Furthermore we expect full year 2014 revenue to increase at a mid- to high-single digit rate.
Due to carryover in the surge in firearms and ammunition sales from a year ago we expect second quarter 2014 revenue to grow at a low single-digit rate and earnings per share to be between $0.45 and $0.55.
For the third quarter we expect revenue to increase at a low double-digit rate and earnings per share to be between $0.85 and $0.95.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance of our Cabela's CLUB.
Thanks Tommy.
For the quarter we realized strong performance from our new stores strong growth in financial services revenue and outstanding performance of our Cabela's branded products.
We opened 1 new store during the first quarter in Augusta Georgia and have opened 2 stores in the last 3 weeks one in Greenville South Carolina and the other in Anchorage Alaska.
Looking forward to the remainder of 2014 we plan to open 5 more stores in the second quarter.
These stores are: Christiana Delaware; Woodbury Minnesota; and Edmonton Alberta all scheduled to open in May; and Missoula Montana and Lovett Texas expect to open in June.
In the third quarter we plan to open stores in Barrie Ontario; Acworth Georgia; Cheektowaga New York; Tualatin Oregon; Nanaimo British Columbia; and Bowling Green Kentucky.
These 14 stores represent approximately 1 million new square feet of retail space or 17% square footage growth in 2014.
As Tommy mentioned operating expenses grew by 4.7% during the first quarter.
This expense growth of approximately $12 million is primarily attributable to new store expenses of roughly $7.4 million.
As we look at managing expenses for the remainder of the year it's important to note a few key components.
We expect preopening cost to be nearly flat year-over-year; incentive compensation is also expected to be down versus full year 2013.
We'll continue to prudently manage store level advertising and brand marketing cost.
And finally we expect only small growth in corporate overhead expense in 2014.
For the quarter financial services revenue increased approximately 15% to $98.6 million.
The increase in financial services revenue was primarily due to a 7.9% increase in average active account.
The account growth helped drive higher interest in fee income as well as interchange income.
For the quarter average credit card loans increased by 12.3%.
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans decreased 6 basis points from the year-ago quarter and were just 1.8%.
Additionally we continue to see improvements in delinquency: Greater than 30-day delinquencies which is 0.68% as compared to 0.73% a year ago; greater than 60-day delinquencies were 0.41% as compared to 0.45% a year ago; and greater than 30-day delinquencies which is 0.22% as compared to 0.24% a year ago.
As a result of these lower delinquencies and roll rates during the quarter we reduced our allowance for loan losses by $1.9 million compared to approximately $1 million in the year-ago quarter.
Additionally at the end of the first quarter we completed a 3-year term securitization of fund growth the transaction included $255 million of notes that accrue interest at a full-in rate equal to 1 month LIBOR plus 35 basis points per year.
For the quarter the financial services interest expense increased 14.7% to $15.9 million as compared to $13.9 million in the same quarter a year ago.
As we discussed in our Analayst Day in March we expect interest expense growth to continue to slow and our expectation is that interest expense for the full year of 2014 will be consistent with 2013 levels as we replace higher fixed-rate CDs issued 3 to 5 years ago.
Now let's turn to inventory.
Inventory increased 21% or $129 million year-over-year to $742 million.
Over the same period we have grown retail square footage by 14.8% with 10 new stores opening since Q1 2013.
Additionally we're very comfortable with the quality of our inventory as we've rolled out our spring assortment and prepare for the upcoming new store openings.
For the quarter capital from operations was negative $56 million compared to a positive $122 million in the same period 1 year ago.
The majority of the change in cash both from operations is due to a timing difference at Cabela's CLUB related to daily settlement of our customer charges as the year-ago quarter for the CLUB ended on a weekend.
With our accelerated store growth plans we expect full year 2014 capital expenditures to be between $400 million and $450 million.
Cash flow from operations is expected to be $300 million to $350 million.
Accordingly we expect to complete a small financing transaction in 2014 or early 2015 to fund future growth.
Additionally in the latter part of this quarter we expect the renegotiate our existing credit agreement to increase capacity and extend the maturity.
Now let me turn back the call over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
With the most challenging comparison from the firearms and ammunition surge behind us we are confident in the strength of our company.
We're very encouraged by our ability to manage expenses the performance of our new stores the improvements in our omni-channel model the growth in our Cabela's CLUB Loyalty Program and the outstanding performance of our Cabela's branded products.
Our growth strategy remains strong and intact as we continue to seek out new opportunities for our business.
Our Outfitters are the heart and soul of this company and I would like to sincerely thank each and every one of them for their hard work and dedication in cherishing and delighting our customers each and every day.
With that operator let's open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Reed Anderson with Northland Securities.
Research Division</strong> Tommy maybe for your first.
You had some commentary on promotional activity related to firearms and a couple of other things.
I'm just curious does that reflect just kind of Cabela's factors during the quarter? Or were there other considerations relative to the competitive environment? Or something you were seeing out there that would account for that? Reed it wasn't competitive factors.
I think it was really in January February when we're going up these -- against these big numbers.
In firearms and ammunition it was more of a visceral response to try to make something happen.
And we sacrificed hundreds of basis points of margins in modern sporting rifles and in other categories of guns and in some ammo specs to try and make something happen and drive some business.
And oddly as it unfolded during the quarter and even into April as we throttled those more aggressive deeply discounted products back it didn't -- business remained at the same level so we were probably unnecessarily aggressive.
And when we pulled back to a normal cadence the business maintained and actually ammunition as we've gotten into April has actually improved a little bit.
So it's just tough for all of us to watch red numbers every day early in January and February so we tried to make some stuff happen.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
But it sounds like from your commentary though in the prepared remarks that you're expecting more or less a normalized promotional cadence pretty much balance of the year.
We are and we've already started that in April.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And another question for you Tommy that -- the softgood penetration percent of the Cabela's brand I mean it makes a lot of sense given all the product we saw at the Analyst Day and it's a terrific improvement.
Is that a good proxy that sort of an increase for what we might see for the full year? Or is that more just 1Q you had a lot of new stuff roll out? I mean I would expect it to go up.
I'm just kind of think order of magnitude what might be reasonable this year in terms of that metric? I think that's a reasonable level.
You certainly saw the focus we're going to have in the fall with the great new products that we showed you.
So I think it's in the ballpark.
It was just really challenging Reed in the first quarter.
The obvious downdraft of traffic year-over-year from the surge was just something we knew it was going to happen and we knew it would affect the other categories of our business.
I think what we didn't expect was a winter that simply wouldn't end.
And our stores were set for spring on February 15.
And I know where you live and there was probably 3 feet of snow on the ground which is not exactly conducive to buying hiker pants and XPG short-sleeved shirts nor was it the most places in the country.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
That's good.
And then Ralph just a couple of quick ones for you.
First new account growth kind of looking at that staff for the quarters 7.9%.
Is that a number we should see accelerate a little bit throughout the year? I'm just thinking back to what I with probably expectations out for the full year.
And then secondly just on kind of similar thoughts on merchandise gross margin is that -- is this the situation this year what with really tough on a full year basis to grow margins? Or do you still think you could overcome what you saw in the first quarter? Then I'll stop there and let somebody else jump in.
Well let -- I'll start with the CLUB question first.
There's no question in the first quarter our CLUB account growth was impacted by the absence of the firearm traffic we saw a year ago.
So that probably more so than the new stores is why we should expect slight acceleration in card growth as we move throughout the year.
Now it's not going to be a huge number but it was 100 basis points of acceleration I think we'd be really pleased with that.
As far as margin expansion goes yes I mean we would expect -- we don't expect the same performance in the back half of the year that we saw in the first quarter.
Now having said that I don't know if we're going to be able to grow them for the full year or not.
I think something plus or minus flat for the full year is -- would be an expectation I would have.
And as you know just because mathematically it's going to largely be determined by how we do in the fourth quarter given the relative size of that.
We'll take our next question from Seth Sigman with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First a question on the Direct business.
The margins were down year-over-year but it looked like a little bit better-than-expected just given the sales decline and certainly up from 2012 levels.
Just trying to understand where some of the progress is coming from there? And how to think about some of the opportunities for that business? Well the biggest expense in that business is advertising cost.
There's really 3 expenses that hit directly to the Direct business it's the advertising any internet-related cost and call centers.
And I think our team continues to look at ways to more effectively use those expenses over time.
So yes I was certainly would not envision a lot of expansion in that area but we've obviously been pleased with how it's performing.
Seth we did see as we did in the Retail business sequential improvement in Direct as the quarter unfolded.
I think the prospects in Direct for the balance of the year we've got to go through the second quarter because in the second quarter it was still a very very big ammo quarter as availability started to loosen up last year.
So we've got to get through the first quarter.
I would tell you we're pretty pleased with the progress we've made in our mobile site in our store-to-door capabilities.
We're working on a couple of other things but balancing that we also have some really big stores opening the rest of this year in markets that were pretty deeply concentrated in Direct customers.
And so I think we'll see.
We're working really hard on the Direct business.
Last thing I would tell you retention across the enterprise was down 5% which we view as kind of a positive given this huge delta in traffic year-over-year to hold retention at only a down 5% given the order of magnitude.
We were actually pretty pleased with that and it just -- I think speaks to the stickiness people have to our brand.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Great.
Well just one question on new store performance.
The new format stores those that are actually in the comp base just trying to understand how they're comping relative to the legacy stores.
I think that's a number that you guys have given in the past? Yes it is.
They are still coping better than the legacy stores but as you can imagine over time as we have more of them and more of them that are starting to mature we're starting to see that performance narrow a little bit so we've gotten away from just disclosing because it's not as -- as they mature as obviously we have more and more of them in the base.
But they are in totality they're still performing better than the legacy stores.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But presumably as you open up more stores more of them will come into the base.
I guess you'll have a higher mix of younger comping stores in the base I mean should that start to help as you look out over the next few quarters as more of those stores come in? Yes that would be a positive.
That should be a positive interpret of it Tom.
Yes I think what we're more excited about as it relates to new stores is just the absolute performance we've seen at the new stores as they open even in that first year.
I mean the fact that sales per square foot of our new stores only declined as little as it did in a quarter that the total comp was down 24%.
Post-surge.
It was pretty encouraging to us.
We'll move forward to our next question from Mark Miller with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> You indicated that the operating expenses came in less than your internal plan in the first quarter so can you elaborate on that? And then as we think about this business beyond 2014 the company's taking aggressive actions to achieve earnings growth this year but are there some of these expenses that are being curtailed this year that will come back next year such that we'll have that faster rate of expense growth? Well Mark let me back up with a little color and Ralph can get into some detail.
Obviously last summer we knew this Mt.
Everest of Q1 and Q2 was facing us.
So we began a systematic approach to lowering the fixed cost within our company.
And it started with a couple of carve outs that were sacred that you need to understand.
One is we got these stores opening.
We're not going to compromise them.
We're 2/3 of the way down the path in an amazing transformation of our omni-channel marketing initiatives to include all kinds of capabilities online and on mobile sites.
There is no way in the world we were going to touch the investments that we're making to build Cabela's branded products.
And then lastly we weren't going to compromise our values in any way shape or form.
Everything outside of that from things as little as travel all the way through the enterprise we reached out to our outfitters and said “Help us find areas where we are not efficiently spending money." And our outfitters as they always do have responded they have given us multitudes of ideas and they yielded real benefit for us in Q1 which we do not expect to stop this pursuit of wringing waste out of the company as we get into 2015 '16 or '17.
It's a new mindset because we got to believe that there probably isn't another surge ahead of us.
Although my career would dispel that but we can't plan for that to happen.
So Ralph you want to give some color? The only comment -- I'll give you a couple of comments on operating expenses.
Obviously and we didn't talk about it much in the last call because it was going to be executed a few days afterwards but obviously we had to let some outfitters go at our retail locations.
Those savings are permanent.
We've had other ones in incentive comp another great one this is just -- this is more of an anecdote but year-over-year in the first quarter alone our travel expenses were down $2 million year-over-year.
So there's things like that that I think are mostly permanent.
The one that will definitely come back is incentive comp at least for the year will be fairly significantly less than it was in 2013.
We will plan for that to come back in 2015 which is part of the reason to Tommy's point we're looking at a lot of these expenses carrying over into '15 to help cover that 1 particular operating expense which is the only one I can think of that is not sustainable.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I appreciate that color.
Can I also ask about your I guess perspective on the 2-year stack comp.
Is this a useful framework for us to look at? You did make reference to I think firearms being back at levels of 2011 and '12 and I think ammo I think you said was slightly above 1Q '12.
So does that mean that other parts of the business would be I guess flat to down on a 2-year basis? And -- so I guess should we be thinking about that growing later on in the year? And if so how do we see that transformation? Well I think at least in the second quarter that math of the 2-year comp being about flat seems to be pretty close.
It's deteriorated a little bit in the first quarter so maybe in the second quarter you look at the 2-year comp being down a little bit.
Clearly as we move out through the back half of the year and the gun impact becomes less impactful we would expect improvement of the 2-year performance.
Research Division</strong> I think we'll all be looking forward to that normalized second half compare.
So will we.
We'll take our next question from Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Ralph could you go back to just repeat the number because I don't think I got it right.
The cash flow from operations you anticipate for this year.
And then it looks like you did -- you already did some borrowing in the first quarter.
How does that fit in with the bank financing and other external debt financing you plan to do this year? Well we expect cash flow from operations for the full year 2014 to be between $300 million and $350 million and CapEx to be between $400 million and $450 million.
We did do -- and I -- when we made do more later in the year we did do a financing deal in the first quarter.
It was a 3-year deal and it was mostly variable.
That will largely be the sort of transactions we're looking at through the remainder of 2014.
Now the parent company the most immediate action we're going to take is to increase and extend our credit facility which we expect to do here in the next I don't know 30 to 60 days.
That -- those conversations are going very well.
We may do a permanent financing transaction at the parent company in late 2014.
I would tell you most likely we'll probably push that into early 2015.
So based on that the most likely external financing or addition to external debt financing for business operations has already been done? Well except -- well no.
The big deal -- I'll exclude -- I assume -- I don't know what you mean by business operations but assuming we're excluding our financial services subsidiary from that.
The first thing we're going to do this year is increase our credit facility which we don't expect to be done for another 30 to 60 days.
But do you expect to draw down on that given that you took down some borrowings in the first quarter? Yes we will continue to draw down and increase on that as we move out throughout the year.
And if we don't do a permanent financing transaction I would expect there to be a balance on that as we left the year.
More of the last year we left the year with the balance on our revolving credit facility of only $2 million or $3 million.
It will most likely be more than that significantly more than that as we exit '14.
Absent of permanent financing.
Okay.
And any thoughts about -- you gave some pretty good -- I think reasonably newer guidance for the second quarter and the third quarter of this year.
Why is the fourth quarter sort of open-ended at this point? Well only because we felt like you kind of backed into it.
We gave you the full year and gave you the second and third quarter.
So that's the only reason for excluding it.
We'll move to our next question from Joe Edelstein with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to ask a couple of other questions about the Financial Services segment.
You had some really good performance there.
The interchange income rate was a little bit lower than what we were expecting though.
Is there anything that you would call out specific to that line? Or should we kind of expect about a 10% rate going forward as we've seen in the past? I'm sorry well interchange was down.
I think it was interest and fee income that was actually 10%.
Interchange income ran about 8.8%.
And we did see a decline particularly earlier in the quarter in purchases which is why -- what we've seen was -- has been a little bit interesting is a decrease in purchases per card but an increase in revolving rate which is why you see the decrease in interchange income and the increase in interest and fee income.
Quite frankly that increase in interchange rate is something we're watching pretty closely and optimistic about it for the remainder of the year.
That could be meaningful.
And Joe that was spend on the card outside of Cabela's we saw modest declines.
Was it the macroeconomic environment? Or was it cold-weather? Everybody was just hunkered down.
It seemed to be across all spending bands from high-end retailers to convenience stores.
It was sort of everywhere in January and February.
And later it started to improve a bit.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's a very helpful detail.
I'd also like to just ask about the allowance for loan loss.
I know the charge-offs were down the delinquency rates remain low.
And it does look like the allowance as a percent of the receivables has come down from about 1.9% 1 year ago down to about just over 1%.
At what point might we see those credit stats start to normalize a bit and see that allowance bucket rise? I'm just trying to get a sense for what the credit models are telling you at this point.
Well quite frankly -- well first of all the reason for the decrease in the first quarter is we saw -- as disclosed we saw a meaningful decrease in both delinquencies charge-offs and roll rates which we don't disclose.
And that's the percentage of -- and kind of back into it but that's the movement between various delinquency buckets.
We just saw a meaningful improvement of that in the first quarter.
And as a result of that brought down our allowance for future losses.
If those trends would continue throughout the back half of the year obviously that would give us -- we'd be pretty optimistic about the performance of that.
As I'm thinking about the business today and particularly the allowance for loan losses I still think for the full year we're going to have to increase that.
Probably not to the extent of the $7 million that we shared with you at our Analyst Day that we have to but I would still expect increases in the allowances would move throughout the back half of the year.
We'll move to our next question with Matt Nemer from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to dig into the merch margin a little more.
Could you give us a little bit of color parse that out in terms of how much pressure we're seeing from the gun and ammo business.
You talked about promotional activity there versus some of your non-gun and ammo businesses.
And I'm wondering if with the late spring and the healthy inventory growth if there's some carryover from that pressure into the second quarter? Well I'll answer the last part of the first.
I mean we felt really -- mainly because of the long winter we felt really good about how we exited the fall season from a mark down perspective.
So I wouldn't expect to see a significant amount of markdowns.
Now as far as giving you color on the mix of merchandise margin it was I guess I'll use the word all but it was heavily heavily skewed towards declines in the absolute categories of hunting and ammunition.
Now obviously we got a benefit because of mix which was more than offset by the first 2.
And to Tommy's comments earlier we expect that to normalize with less promotions and other things.
But if you look at -- and I'll try to give you a little bit of color on that but if you look at margins I know look at it in both guns and ammo I mean we saw some of the highest margins we ever saw in both the first quarter and the second quarter of '13.
As you move out later in the year those gun margins are at way more of historical levels and the grow over becomes much much easier.
Matt it was -- during the quarter as I mentioned we were set for spring in the stores in mid-February.
And obviously with the harshness of the winter that just wouldn't go away we were left with selling it seemed like forever end-of-season cold-weather products from packed foods to 4-way parkas and base layer and just we're just trying to stretch into a spring that didn't come until April.
So that put downward pressure that just was what was it was.
To kind of help quantify that and this really goes also to previous question about how -- why we -- how we expect margins to the back of the year.
In 2013 both in guns and ammo we saw a board of 500-basis-point deterioration in margin in those categories as we move throughout the year.
So clearly as we move into the -- what's really important which is the third and fourth quarter we will have much easier comparisons as it relates to margin particularly in guns and ammunition.
And our current margin expense are at those normalized levels right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very very helpful.
And then secondly as we look at the implied Q4 guide it would seem like that quarter needs to be quite a bit stronger than Q3.
You've been talking about sort of this 2-year look back.
But as we get to Q4 if you look back 2 years you're starting to look at the surge.
So I'm just -- I wanted to get a little color on some of your Q4 inputs.
Do the sales actually maybe start to trend more on 3-year-ago levels? Say $110 per foot? What's driving the Q4 growth? Well I think the biggest thing that's driving the Q4 growth is just -- is -- we are assuming that we will guide to more normalized levels by the time we get to Q4.
And then on top of just the comp basis Matt we've got great cap brand products coming for the fall which you guys saw at Analyst Day.
We're working really hard on expenses and corporate overhead.
We have solid expectations for the new stores that are coming in the balance of the year and the CLUB continues to perform at really high levels.
And we think we're going to be in a more normal business pattern in the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly as you see the spring weather come are you -- but you wouldn't see this in your Q2 comp guidance necessarily but does it feel like there is pent-up demand and you're seeing almost a surge? Or is that maybe -- it might just be painting it more positive than it is? Yes you're painting it more positive that it is.
Because remember we're still facing enormous traffic comps year-over-year in Q2.
Not as great as it was in Q1 but it's still pretty big in Q2.
But what we're optimistic that we are seeing and I'll give you a specific anecdote our penetration of spring merchandise in the first quarter year-over-year was down 800 basis points.
So I'm joking but not really.
When icefishing is the best-performing segment in the first quarter that should tell you something.
So we see this 800 basis point decline in spring penetration that is now as the second quarter started come totally back to normal which says customers starting to bounce back.
Which we're also seeing it in the spend in -- on the card outside of Cabela's but I wouldn't call it a radical rebound by any stretch.
But it's better.
Our next question comes from Jim Duffy with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Just a general comment.
For what it's worth I'm pleased to see the additional direction on the guidance.
A couple of questions.
So...
Well Jim we -- hey Jim went out of our way as we said in the last couple of quarters to give as much clarity in this period of volatility as we could so I appreciate the feedback.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Great.
Yes I think that's helpful it puts guardrails around the consensus estimates and hopefully creates a more normalized environment from an investment standpoint.
A few questions.
Some of these have been addressed from different angles so bear with me on this as I take my own approach.
Ralph the outlook on the CLUB some changing commentary from the Analyst Day.
I think you had said you weren't expecting to see growth in the Finance business.
Now you list it is one of the contributing factors to earnings growth.
What's changed there? Is it just the view on delinquencies and so forth that gives you more confidence on the provision? Well that's part of it.
That business is performing better than I probably thought it would on Analyst Day there's no question that's improving.
For a bunch of -- probably the 2 biggest factors our revolving rate is up and the late -- and charge-offs to delinquencies are less than what I thought they were going to be a month ago when we talked.
That's -- I mean probably the end.
I mean those are the 2 biggest things.
And I think we're optimistic on growth as we get to the year so.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
Delinquencies we look at it it's kind of a leading indicator on the provisions but anything you can do to help with kind of the quarterly cadence of that finance business as you see it over the course of the year? Any color there would be helpful Ralph.
You mean particularly on the allowance? Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> No not the allowance.
Just all of the factors that kind of build up to your changed outlook for the year.
The allowance is obviously a particularly important one.
Yes.
I don't know that I can give you a whole lot of color in that by quarter.
I mean we're seeing really good performance out of that business.
The only real opportunity -- I was actually going to touch on this when we're in the discussion about SG&amp;A has been fraud losses of the CLUB.
We have seen a pretty significant increase in fraud losses.
This is where our card is used unwittingly by a bad guy.
So Jim Duffy if you've got a card somebody gets your numbers and puts fraudulent charges on it that we have to eat.
That line item actually runs through SG&amp;A for the CLUB.
And in the first quarter it was up several million dollars over the previous year.
If our team is working really hard to get that under control.
To the extent we could get that back down that would be further opportunity for us.
Jim we think we're performing consistent with the industry maybe even a little bit better.
But the fraudsters are -- they're alive and well right now and working very hard which is a factor we've got to deal with in the balance of the year.
But it's industry-wide not just us.
And to kind of -- just this is more of a long-term deal on this but it was -- some of this is pretty fascinating that one of our CLUB associates shared with me at one of our store openings.
They showed me CLUB membership by state.
And what was just fascinating to me is and I'm trying to do this from memory but if you looked at our club members in the state of Georgia compared to Minnesota we had like 1/10 as many card members in Georgia as we do in Minnesota.
Now there's a bunch of reasons for that one of which is we've had 3 stores in Minnesota and have had them for a number of years but it just goes to the potential as we go to some of these new geographies for long-term sustainable growth in that business.
And we're seeing great apps-to-trans ratios in Anchorage Greenville and in Augusta particularly in the Southeast.
We've seen customers really embrace the desire to have of one of our cards because nobody's ever asked them.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Makes sense.
Good to hear.
Shifting gears a bit.
Some question around the comps and the comp outlook.
One of the things I'm struggling to get my arms around you were calling for in the second quarter a comp that's down on a 2-year basis.
Even in the first quarter the 2-year comp was better.
Why would you not be making progress on the 2-year comp in the second quarter seemingly as the spring business normalizes that would be a lift? We're just trying to take a conservative approach to the quarter given still the headwinds that we face.
One of the things -- to your point one of the things we've seen recently that's been an encouraging trend is ammo has gotten -- in the last 3 or 4 weeks ammo sales have gotten much stronger.
So I don't know if that maybe is upside for the second quarter I guess we'll see.
I would tell you we looked at it a lot and maybe it does appear that for some reason the 2-year comp is getting slightly worse in the second quarter.
Chris [ph] is trying to do the math here quickly and tells me it's about the same if you multiply instead of add.
But look I think we're just trying to make sure we got the business rightsized as we go through the second quarter and go through this big gun surge.
Our next question comes from Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> First just a big picture on just the space generally.
I just would be interested on your thoughts on the just the competitive environment.
There seems to be a lot of square footage coming into this space.
A number of different people starting to come in and grow a little bit more quickly here and opening up stores.
Just would be curious on your perspective on that and what's happening there? And then maybe secondly any color on impacts to your stores or existing stores when one of these players opens up near you guys? Well as we've mentioned to you before there are a whole lot of markets that we compete in Phoenix Dallas Baton Rouge Omaha.
I could keep going where we compete directly with our biggest competitors.
And we seem to do well in those markets and I suspect they probably do as well.
They're -- in an actual numbers of units there hasn't -- there's a lot of talk but when you look at a really big country and especially North America if all of our known competitors build 10 stores -- I mean it's a big country.
It's not really that big of a deal.
And I like to think Sean that we're giving more ulcers then we're getting.
So I mean I look at the performance of our new stores that have gone into some of our competitors' backyards and I got to feel pretty good about where we are.
So look we're mindful of our competitors.
They're all very good but we seem to have a pretty unique model and it continues to work very well at $500 a foot.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then just on Q1 it seems like a couple of stores I think that you initially thought were going to open in Q1 pushed out to Q2.
Anything to read in there as to why those stores may have been a few days late on what you guys were trying to open? No.
I would not read much into that.
I think Chris said 1 of them ended up being a week later and crossed the just crossed the quarter.
But no there is nothing to read into that.
Occasionally for whatever reason we might move a store a week either for construction reasons or marketing reasons or whatever and I would not read anything into that.
We're totally on track for the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then just lastly I know people have circled around the Financial Services segment here but just on the margin rate in that business.
Is that a good number to think about? It went up quite a bit in terms of the annualized return that you're getting on that from last year.
Is that a good way to think about that particular segment of the business moving forward? Well I got to tell you I really -- I don't look that much at the margin rate in our Financial Services business.
Quite frankly what I think is the best leading indicator of that is that revenue line that we talked about.
But that earlier was somebody else's question.
And the fact that we -- and this was accretive to margin.
But the fact that our financial services revenue as a percent of total went from 10.3% to 10.5% that to me more encouraging than the other factors so.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And maybe just one last question here.
Any update on the smaller store format where you are on rolling those out? I know they're going to be called Cabela's Stores here moving forward versus Outpost.
But just -- how are you guys feeling about the smaller-store format? We feel good about it.
It's interesting and these are not related but as you move in and start to look particularly at 15 openings we're actually opening probably more of the bigger stores.
And that in no way should be construed as meaning we don't have confidence in the smaller ones.
It's just that some opportunities opened in some big markets where we think we can make a big impact and we're going to do that.
That probably means at some future year I'm not sure I know when that is we'll need to open more smaller stores.
But we're really excited about our opportunities for '15 in some really major markets.
And Sean the smaller stores do not require less effort.
So if you got a big market like Portland with a bigger store you obviously want to get there for the same amount of effort.
We'll take our next question from David Magee with Suntrust Robinson &amp; Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First on the gun comparisons as we work towards hopefully the latter innings there the tough numbers.
Has the impact in the core categories been greater than expected from that? And then secondly what do you see in terms of the other going forward residual benefit from all those new customers? Are you seeing ongoing activity on new cards that were issued last year or something like that? That would give you confidence that you retain that business? Well David I think it's fair to say that in the other categories in the first quarter it was probably down a little more than we thought it was going to be but I'm not sure how much weather had to do with that.
It feels like a lot but it's a hard thing to prove so we kind of don't hang our hat on that.
But I think we are reasonably encouraged that we've stabilized at this new level as we enter the second quarter.
Our ability to put cards in the hands of all those folks a lot of those folks that qualify to buy guns the real marquee number that I think gives us the most amount of confidence is that retention in this huge downdraft of traffic was only down 5% in the quarter against transactions that were down close to 15%.
That's a -- we think that's a pretty good bellwether.
Let me just make -- No I just wanted to give you a little bit more color on the gun thing.
And I think to your point I think probably the attach rate or the halo effect or whatever on guns in the first quarter was probably more than I thought.
But let me kind of give a little color to just how meaningful the first quarter was.
One of the things I did in sort of preparation for this and looking at historical trends is go back and look at just the stores that've been opened since 2009.
And just look at their gun sales to sort of get some sense for where we are where we are in the trend.
Now I'm going to exclude the fourth quarter from this discussion just because in every year has been the biggest gun quarter of the year.
But if I look at just -- it's basically 29 stores that we have had that opened for that period of time.
I would tell you in the first 3 quarters of the year gun sales have sort of ranged between call it $47 million and $58 million in those 9 stores.
-- I'm sorry in those 20 whatever it is 29 stores that were opened since 2009.
In the first quarter we sold $96 million -- first quarter a year ago we sold $96 million of guns out of those first 29 stores.
That number for comparable purposes -- in this year those stores did $59 million so we saw a pretty decent decline.
In the second quarter a year ago those stores did $56 million.
So that $96 million that we did in the first quarter out of those 29 stores is a huge outlier.
We're going to quickly start to normalize it as we move into the third and fourth quarters of the year.
And then -- as you can might expect to the questions earlier we got about why we're optimistic in the fourth quarter.
If you look at gun sales already in the fourth quarter of '13 those were down pretty meaningfully compared to the fourth quarter of '12.
So we've already seen a big piece of the decline in those sort of bay stores.
I hope that's helpful but it's just this first quarter was such a huge outlier from gun sales that we're going to quickly start normalizing.
Second quarter by the way was -- that $56 million number is still high by historical standards that it will probably be down.
But we start to get into much more normalized quarters as we get into the third and fourth quarter.
And ammunition mirrors the same kind of outlier pattern.
Absolutely.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick question on just the weather impact.
The -- are we getting to a point I guess that it's probably fishing about what impact right now and I'm just curious as we get into the late spring early summer fishing weather as a factor becomes less important does it not? Yes.
Well you still want a good spring for fishing and fly fishing and boating and all of those categories.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the fishing category as you think about what might impacted here in the past month or so is that the primary category? By the weather? Yes and boating as well in the month of March.
With everything frozen solid in 2/3 of the country it was pretty difficult for -- to get people to take delivery of boats and to get them excited about going anything other than ice fishing which I really wasn't kidding.
That was a real positive comper -- it's just a shame it's not a meaningful part of our business.
And we'll take our next question from Anthony Lebiedzinski with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Most of my questions were answered but I know you guys gave that the numbers for the sales of new stores versus the legacy stores which is certainly helpful.
Can you comment on the profit outperformance of the new stores versus legacy stores? And how do you see that going forward? Yes I've got it and it's still let me get the relative numbers.
I mean it's still as a percentage change sort of in line with revenue.
Where it's -- at the end of the year we told you that the 11 stores that we had did profit at $94 per square foot as we -- and that's on obviously the rolling 12 including 11 stores.
As you look at the 14 stores opened for the last 12 months it's only slightly less than that.
As we feel really good now.
Obviously that was -- one of the benefits of that was we have 3 -- those 3 new stores that rolled into the base they were open the first quarter of last year are doing really well.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And going forward how do you see that trending because your smaller stores like the Outpost stores or soon-to-be called just Cabela's Stores.
I mean that they do have a higher mix of higher-margin products.
So can you just help us think about it? I mean how that can trend going forward? Well we expect it to continue to be positive.
I would tell you it's for a different reason though.
The Outpost stores quite frankly are not that much better.
And there's so few of them particularly in a total square foot impact I don't expect that to make a significant difference.
But just looking at the performance of some of those stores that we opened in 2013 which we'll now be rolling into the calculations as they've been open for 12 months we're pretty excited those numbers will maintain pretty high levels as we move throughout the year.
Like the Colorado stores.
Which actually don't roll in [ph] to come into the calculation until the fourth quarter because they didn't open until August.
They won't be open for a full 12 months until we get to the fourth quarter.
But we're pretty confident of that number as we move forward given some of the stores.
It will be interesting 6 months from now to hear -- to understand how we feel about the '14 openings.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And quickly on the Direct business can you comment on the -- your catalog circulation in the quarter? How -- what that was versus year ago? And should we expect a continual shift to more digital marketing? Yes.
We -- you should continue to expect a modest shift to more digital.
I think we're at a pretty good place in our medium mix right now so I wouldn't expect a dramatic shift out of catalogs to digital because I think we're pretty comfortable with where the mix is falling right now.
And we'll take our final question from Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most things were hit but I did just want to beat 1 dead horse.
And that firearm and ammo margins just looking at that.
Tommy maybe if you can walk through kind of where the steady-state is and the delta that you saw in the surge above steady-state on margins in those businesses? And maybe the delta below where we're at in Q1? Well I'll reiterate the color I provided earlier.
We got very aggressive in the hundreds of basis points and we'll talk about guns right now.
But in guns just to try in January and February to get some traffic which we did.
As we started to moderate those margins to more normalized levels later in the quarter we didn't see any real change in velocity.
And as we've come into the second quarter we're at that kind of normalized level but to dimensionalize it the peak surge of margins were probably 300 to 400 basis points higher than historical run rates.
But it only lasted for a couple of quarters and we just see it stabilizing against historical patterns.
Ralph you got any more color? No.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That helps.
Is there any chance that we're in a -- any sort of a new norm that we wouldn't see things return to kind of that steady-state? I know through 2011 '12 you guys have worked on moving those margins higher in those businesses.
Do you feel like you could hit back at that steady-state? Or is there any reason that should drop? Yes we do.
We do actually.
Yes we do actually.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Tommy Millner I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you all again soon.
That concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Incorporated Second Quarter Fiscal 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Chris Gay Director Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
The second quarter marks the final full period related to the surge in firearm and ammunition sales from a year ago.
Our focus on tightly managing expenses begun in late 2013 combined with new store performance and accelerating performance from our Cabela's CLUB program resulted in profit and profitability that exceeded our expectations.
We will maintain our focus on operating expense management for the remainder of 2014 and full year 2015.
As results compared to the year ago period continue to normalize we believe that the opportunities we took advantage of to improve our business over the past year will become increasingly evident.
At the end of the second quarter for the trailing 12-month period the 16 new format stores that were opened for the full period had sales per square foot of approximately $474 outperforming our legacy store base by roughly 45%.
Additionally these same new-format stores outperformed our legacy store base by approximately 53% in profit per square foot over the same period.
On a comparable store sales basis new-format stores that have been in the comp base for 1 year or less outperformed the consolidated comp base by 360 basis points for the quarter.
We continue to be pleased with the performance of our new stores and are particularly pleased with the results in Anchorage Alaska and Christiana Delaware.
The exceptional performance of these new stores continues to give us great confidence in our future store openings.
For the quarter consolidated comp store sales decreased 14.2%.
The decrease in comp store sales was primarily due to the accelerated falloff in demand for ammunition and other shooting-related categories.
Comp store sales excluding firearms ammunition other shooting-related categories and optics were down 7.3%.
We were particularly pleased with the improvement we saw from our General Outdoors category with powersports fishing and many camping and outdoor categories showing meaningful improvement since our first quarter call.
During the quarter Cabela's branded product continued to show meaningful improvement.
As a percent of total sales within our Softgoods and General Outdoors categories Cabela's branded product increased by 160 basis points in each category.
This represents a 180-basis-point improvement in Cabela's brand penetration on a consolidated merchandise sales basis.
The strength of our brand has never been greater and we are very excited for the innovative new Cabela's branded products we will be offering to our customers throughout the year.
Now let's take a look at our Cabela's CLUB which had another exceptional quarter and continued to build our base of extremely loyal customers.
For the quarter average active accounts increased 7.7%.
Cabela's CLUB members are our most loyal customers with higher average spend and greater purchase frequency.
Cabela's CLUB revenue increased approximately 23.5% to $109.4 million.
The increase was primarily attributable to interest and fee income as well as interchange income.
We continue to see favorable delinquency trends and charge-off trends.
Charge-offs remained at extremely low levels and were just 1.67% in the quarter.
For the quarter direct revenue decreased 18.3% as a result of a greater-than-expected decline in ammunition and other shooting-related categories.
As we look at the trends in direct ammunition sales over the past several years second quarter direct ammunition sales are consistent with levels we saw prior to the year-ago surge.
Our omni-channel improvements continue to gain traction as increased traffic through our new mobile site via handheld and tablet devices as well as benefits from our omni-channel fulfillment program during the quarter have been very encouraging.
During the quarter our ability to tightly manage expenses resulted in operating expense growth of only 2% while we grew retail square footage by 18.4% from the same quarter a year ago.
Companywide focus on expense management has played a key role in generating profitability throughout the tough comparisons from the year ago period.
Expense savings encompassed all areas of our company including incentive compensation contract labor corporate overhead and a wide range of other initiatives throughout the company.
Furthermore the expense initiatives already in place will continue to yield benefits for the remainder of 2014 as we expect mid-single-digit expense growth for each of the remaining quarters of the year.
Now turning to earnings guidance.
Second quarter results provide us with confidence in attaining our full year 2014 growth targets.
We are pleased with our performance in the second quarter however due to the unsettled retail environment we are not raising our full year guidance.
Accordingly we reaffirm our previous full year guidance and continue to expect 2014 earnings per diluted share to increase at a high-single-digit to low-double-digit rate versus 2013 adjusted earnings per diluted share of $3.32.
We are updating the balance between quarters and now expect third quarter revenue to increase at a high-single-digit to low-double-digit rate and earnings per diluted share to be between $0.80 and $0.90.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance of our Cabela's CLUB.
Thanks Tommy.
For the quarter we realized strong performance from our new stores meaningful benefit from our expense management initiatives strong growth in financial services revenue and outstanding performance of Cabela's branded products.
We opened 7 new stores during the second quarter in Greenville South Carolina; Anchorage Alaska; Christiana Delaware; Woodbury Minnesota; Manning Alberta; Missoula Montana; and Lubbock Texas.
Looking forward to the remainder of 2014 we plan to open 6 stores in the third quarter including Barrie Ontario which opened 2 weeks ago; Acworth Georgia; Cheektowaga New York; Tualatin Oregon; Nanaimo British Colombia; and Bowling Green Kentucky.
As Tommy mentioned we've been thrilled with the performance of our stores that we opened in 2013 and so far in 2014.
As we look across North America we continue to see an opportunity for more than 200 stores and expect to build stores at the rate of at least 13 per year.
We do expect these stores to be smaller in size as we continue to optimize return on capital to our shareholders and as we move into smaller markets.
In the future you'll hear us talk about our store growth objectives as being between 900 000 and 1 million square feet per year as we focus on growth in these smaller boxes.
During the quarter merchandise gross margin decreased 70 basis points to 37.0% from 37.7% in the same quarter a year ago.
The decrease is entirely due to an adjustment in the presentation of reimbursement between segments for certain operating and promotional costs which totaled $4.8 million for the quarter.
The effect of this change increases financial services revenue and merchandise cost.
This new presentation will be ongoing and has no impact on consolidated operating income or earnings per diluted share.
Now turning to operating expense.
Operating expenses grew by only 2% during the second quarter.
This expense growth of approximately $5.6 million was primarily attributable to new store expenses and preopening expenses which increased by $5.1 million and $1.6 million respectively.
For the quarter financial services revenue increased approximately 23.5% to $109.4 million inclusive of the $4.8 million adjustment just mentioned.
The increase in financial services revenue was primarily due to a 7.7% increase in average active accounts.
The account growth helped drive higher interest and fee income as well as interchange income.
For the quarter average credit card loans increased by 12.4%.
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans decreased 20 basis points from the year-ago quarter and were just 1.67%.
Additionally we continue to see improvements in delinquencies.
Greater-than-30-day delinquencies were just 0.65% as compared to 0.66% a year ago.
Greater-than-60-day delinquencies were 0.36% as compared to 0.39% a year ago and greater-than-90-day delinquencies were just 0.18% as compared to 0.20% a year ago.
As a result of these lowered delinquencies in loan rates during the quarter we reduced our allowance for loan losses by $3.7 million compared to approximately $2.2 million in the year ago quarter.
Partially offsetting these reserve reduction was a $1.3 million increase in consolidated interest expense due to an income-tax-related issue at Cabela's CLUB.
Due mostly to continued portfolio growth we expect to realize reserve increases in the third and fourth quarter of 2014.
We expect the increase in reserves for the second half of 2014 to be roughly equal to the $6 million of reserve releases we had in the first half of the year.
Additionally last week we completed a 5-year term securitization to fund growth.
The transaction included $340 million in notes that accrue interest at a floating rate equal to 1 month LIBOR plus 45 basis points per year.
This securitization will be used mostly to fund portfolio growth the maturing securitization in 2015 and maturing certificates of deposit.
As we look forward our next term securitization matures in January of 2015.
For the quarter financial services interest expense decreased to $15.8 million as compared to $15.9 million in the same quarter a year ago.
During the quarter in accordance with the existing intercompany agreement Cabela's CLUB paid an additional license fee to the merchandising business.
This additional license fee is due when Cabela's CLUB total risk-based capital exceeds 13% at any quarter end.
The additional license fee due was $11 million.
$7 million was recognized in the Retail segment and $4 million was recognized in the Direct segment.
For the quarter the total license fee to be paid to the merchandising business including additional license fees paid increased $14 million.
The total license fee increased from $13 million in the Retail segment and $1 million in the Direct segment.
During the quarter we announced plans to outsource distribution in Canada.
Accordingly we recognized impairment and restructuring charges related to employee severance agreements of $641 000 in the quarter.
We expect to incur approximately $4 million of additional expenses related to the transition to our third-party provider and closing of our current distribution center over the next 12 months.
Now let's turn to inventory.
Inventory increased by 15.4% or $107 million year-over-year to $803 million.
Over the same period we've grown retail square footage by 18.4% with 14 new stores opening since Q2 2013.
Additionally we're very comfortable with the quality of our inventory as we've entered the second half of the year and prepare for the upcoming new store openings.
For the quarter cash flow from operations was $47 million compared to $183 million in the same period a year ago.
The majority of the change in cash flow from operations is due to a timing difference of -- at Cabela's CLUB related to the daily settlement of customer’s charges as the year ago quarter for the CLUB ended on a weekend.
With our accelerating store growth plans we expect full year 2014 capital expenditures to be between $400 million and $450 million.
Cash flow from operations is expected to be between $300 million and $350 million for 2014.
Accordingly we expect to complete a small financing transaction in early 2015 to fund future growth.
Finally as we indicated last quarter we completed an amendment to our existing credit agreement to increase the capacity and to extend the maturity.
The new $775 million facility replaces our $415 million facility.
The new facility has a 5-year term maturing in June 2019.
The larger facility provides significant flexibility as we continue to expand our retail footprint.
Now I'll turn the call over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
With the most challenging comparisons from the firearms and ammunition surge behind us we are confident in the strength of our company.
We're very encouraged by our ability to manage expenses the performance of our new stores the improvements in our omni-channel model the growth in our Cabela's CLUB loyalty program and the outstanding performance of our Cabela's branded products.
Our growth strategy remains strong and intact as we continue to seek out new opportunities for our business.
Before turning it over for questions I want to sincerely thank our outfitters who have embraced efforts to lower costs in every area of our company.
Well done team.
With that operator let's open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Seth Sigman from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just want to focus a little bit on the Q3 guidance.
I think you took it down to high-single-digit to low-double-digit revenue growth now.
Can you maybe just talk about what's implied for comps there? And any update on how you're tracking so far in Q3? Seth let me give you a little color on our thoughts and then Ralph can talk about the specific numbers.
As we look at Q3 it's a mix of a couple of concerns and positives and I want to go through them if you don't mind.
First July has started a little softer than we had hoped.
However it's important to note that July is clearance month and we really haven't rolled to fall merchandise yet.
That doesn't happen until really the first week of August.
We're also listening to what other retailers are saying both inside our sector and in the broader retail marketplace in the United States about their business.
So we're listening as you are and it points to our comments a sense that it's a little unsettled out there.
So a couple of specific concerns.
We do feel encouraged by these positives.
First the acceleration of the CLUB is just a really good thing for our company.
I hope you and others on the call are encouraged by our expense initiatives which were significant and will continue into the third quarter.
Most of you saw the great new products that we're launching for fall.
They have not hit the stores yet and really don't have any big presence on cabelas.com right now.
And I think our promotional plans for Q3 as we begin August and go through the rest of the quarter I would characterize as aggressive and back to a more normal cadence.
And then last but not least we're getting into hunting season.
When the doves start flying in late August our customer -- our core customer who really supports us we're getting into their sweet spot.
So as we kind of looked at the third quarter and balanced all of those things Ralph can give you a little more color on the specific numbers.
Yes.
I mean Tommy -- I mean obviously Tommy is right.
July started a little bit softer than we thought.
Although even with that by the way it has still improved over the third quarter.
We're continuing to walk through a cadence that the decline we're seeing in comps is getting less every quarter and every month.
So we're doing way better in July than what we're doing than -- what we did in the previous quarter.
Now having said that by the way 4th of July was tough for us.
And quite frankly some of that may have been due to the calendar shift with 4th of July moving from a Thursday to a Friday.
I mean last year we basically had a 4-day weekend over 4th of July.
This year we just had a 3-day weekend.
So that was one of the reasons we started off slow.
But we're seeing comps improve as we move through the month of July and they continue to get -- the decline continues to get better as we move through the month.
So we're still pretty optimistic as we go through the third quarter.
Having said that at one time I was hoping to see flat comps in the third quarter.
That doesn't seem to be the case now.
I think we'll probably see something in mid-single-digits decline in the third quarter.
But every -- as Tommy pointed out there's a lot of other things in our business that we continue to feel really good about.
But the other thing that just continues to surprise me is how we try to think about working costs out of our organization.
Our employees have done a great job of identifying opportunities.
We continue to find more and more of those.
And quite frankly as we move through the quarter and the back half of the year there could be continued upside relative to our expectations on expense management.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just to clarify on one of the comments you made earlier the negative 7% comp this quarter that would be excluding guns ammo and anything related to that.
Is that comparable to the down 12% comp that you quoted in the first quarter? Like is that down 7% in improvement in trend? Yes.
Yes a small improvement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so even though July is a little softer than expected is that underlying trend a little bit better than the first quarter as well? I'm not sure we got that number for the month of July only but I would assume that the trend is continuing to get better because we're seeing continued improvement across all of our comp categories.
And we'll take our next question from Rick Nelson.
Rick? Rick are you there? Apparently not.
Could we go to the next caller please? Research Division</strong> It's not on mute.
Sorry for that.
Provision came in below forecast Ralph.
You talked about reserve reversal this quarter and I guess in the back end of the year we're going to see some of that come back.
And curious if you're still looking at that provision normalizing at around 2%.
You were at 1.2% we're calculating this quarter.
Yes.
There's no question we -- well first let's -- I'll talk about them separately.
First let's talk about just the change in the reserve.
We've seen -- we saw a $3.7-million reduction in the reserve in the second quarter.
And that -- the charge-offs in that business just keep getting better.
Now by the way I also want to point out we had a one point -- down in the interest expense line in the consolidated financials we had a $1.3 million of additional interest expense related to an income tax issue at the bank.
And I kind of look at those 2 items together if you would.
But in the back half of the year we clearly see our allowance for loan losses going up by probably about $6 million as we get more portfolio growth.
Now to your point over time charge-offs in the quarter were 1.67%.
That's down from 1.87% in the same quarter a year ago.
Over time those have got to go up.
But that could -- and you threw out 2% number which is a number I've talked about a lot in the past.
We clearly see those gravitating up to 2% but that could take a number of years.
But a more normalized range for charge-offs is somewhere in the 2% to 2.25% kind of a range.
But I don't -- that won't happen quickly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got you.
And the merchandise margin down 70 basis points you've pointed to some accounting changes.
Had those not gone into effect would we have in fact seen a lift in the merchandise margin? It would have been up slightly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you could speak to the margin in the firearms ammo category is there a lot of pressure there today? Actually we talked about that.
We've been -- there is still pressure year-over-year but this is now the third -- let's see in ammunition it's the third quarter in a row that we've seen expansion in ammunition margins.
And in guns it's also the third quarter in a row that we've seen expansion in gun margins.
So although we're seeing pressure -- although we've seen pressure mainly because the year-over-year numbers are so much tougher.
But we're seeing sequential improvement which makes us really pleased.
Matter of fact in both cases of guns and ammo the actual margin we realized in Q2 is about -- Q2 of '14 is about the same margin that we've gotten in Q3 a year ago.
So the year-over-year decline is going to go away next quarter.
And hopefully we'll continue to see sequential improvement as we move throughout the year.
But we feel really good about the trajectory we've got in the ammunition markets.
Rick if you remember on the first quarter call I commented that we're a pretty competitive organization and it was very difficult in the early part of the first quarter to just watch red numbers every day if you're sitting in the gun and ammunition categories and we got probably too aggressive.
We really took a more moderate approach in the second quarter just having lived through the first quarter and we knew these trends were going to continue and the comps were going to be really impossible to lap.
And we took just a way more prudent approach and just kind of returned to a normal promotional cadence.
And as we look to the balance of the year we feel really good about how we're going to promote guns and ammunition.
It should be I would call it sane yet aggressive to drive the traffic.
So just a subtle change in the second quarter from Q1.
And we'll take our next question from Jim Duffy from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> You guys are doing a lot of hard work on the expenses.
The elephant in the room however is that you are aggressively expanding the footage.
Difficult gun and ammo compares will be behind you at some point in the third quarter yet the comps for the third quarter are looking down mid-single digits.
What -- I mean what's it going to take to stabilize the comps here? What's the timeline for that? And then I have a follow-up question on the new stores.
Well Jim I think we're trying to take a really cautious approach in our overall guidance for the third quarter.
To my comments a few minutes ago we would certainly hope we could outperform that.
But just trying to take a conservative approach which builds from comps all the way up to the top of the business in overall guidance we would certainly hope to see better than mid-single-digit declines as we get into the fourth quarter and that's what we're really -- we're aiming for.
I think what's going to be really important is to see how the new products launch and balanced against what consumer sentiment is as we get into the real heart of the year.
And I tell you our visibility on that here on the 24th of July is we haven't got the new products in the stores yet so we don't really have a read.
So I'd just characterize it as cautious.
I guess Jim to your question is I don't consider positive comps in the fourth quarter to be unachievable.
We're going to have more stores in the comp base that are comping better.
And that -- we understand we need to see positive comps here shortly.
I'm disappointed we probably won't see them in the third quarter.
But as we move into the fourth quarter and to early 2015 we should expect to see positive comp.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Tommy you mentioned promotions back to a more normal cadence.
Can you elaborate on that? And then related to that to what extent do you think that the tight SG&amp;A management is impacting the sales? Well we consciously Jim last fall just made a corporate decision that we were not going to get expense savings out of marketing dollars.
That just made no sense whatsoever.
So our expense initiatives are virtually all outside of discount dollars and merchandise and marketing dollars and all of those initiatives.
These are areas where we're saving money and things we don't need to do anymore can do better or can do less expensively not in the areas of marketing that drive the business.
So I hope you should take comfort in that.
If you go to cabelas.com today you will see a teaser for what's been a really good promotion of modern sporting rifles.
We've been able to partner with our vendors.
They've been very supportive and I think it's just a really good aggressive cadence that we've got for the balance of the year and let's -- we'll just have to see if the consumers are going to respond.
But I think that's how we see the balance of the year.
But we're not cutting marketing dollars we got to drive sales.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question the new store sales per square foot $474.
What's your level of confidence that that's hitting a bottom? Well I think it largely depends upon the comp but the level of decline is as we exit the gun and ammo thing is continuing to diminish.
So I guess we feel reasonably good.
Could it go lower than here? Maybe.
But -- and I know you guys are all comparing that to the $450 number that we talked about as what we modeled the stores at.
But I'll also tell you with all the work -- and we'll need to reevaluate that as we get into 2015.
We will reevaluate this as we get to 2015.
But the tremendous amount of work we're doing trying to drive down store costs and manage expenses will be able for us to achieve a profitable return on our stores in some number less than $450.
Now what that is we'll find out.
Having said that I know what it means that I'm sharing that with you because I think the $474 per square foot that we're enjoying today is going to get below $450.
I just think the margin of safety is going to get greater.
And Jim it's just a good discipline in our company we're looking at everything.
I mean literally everything of how we can do things at a lower cost to include building stores.
And we'll take our next question from Mark Miller from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Tommy can you spin up your crystal ball and tell us why do you think the firearms and ammo have dropped off more than you would expect? And I think that the rising short interest in your shares is based on a view that you've been in a super cycle and there's a perceived risk that we're just going to track -- slide down towards that 2008 level.
And Ralph I guess your prior comment that you're creating a bigger safety level on the sales per square foot I mean that might almost make us feed into suspicion that that's where we're headed.
Well I'll give some color and then Ralph can weigh in Mark.
As we look at Q2 our gun performance was only very very slightly less than our expectations.
So that's kind of a good thing.
To our belief in normalization and then you look at the mixed data it would certainly feel like although clearly down pretty damn close to our expectations.
Ammo clearly fell off sharper maybe even as much as much sharper than our expectations.
However when we look at the Direct business by example in the second quarter ammo demand was still above 2012 levels albeit way lower than 2013.
So I think as we come into Q3 the headwinds in ammo really dissipate and the same for Q4.
And I think -- I certainly hope that we've seen a bottoming of ammo.
I guess time will tell and the crystal ball will clarify itself over time.
But guns feel like they're normalizing and we're starting to promote guns more regularly.
Yes.
Mark let me give you a little bit more color on that because I think there's a perception that there's been sort of a direct upward trend in gun sales from 2008 and beyond.
As I -- one of the things we've done and I've got it here in front of me so it's helpful but is look at just for the stores that were open for the full year of 2008 how have those gun sales performed since then by quarter? And I would tell you they were up -- in Q2 for example they were up in '09 and then down in '10 and then up in '11 '12 and '13.
But our numbers that we're seeing in '14 are somewhere between those 2009 and 2012 levels.
I guess what I'm telling you is I think we're seeing sales consistent with those early parts of the Obama administration years of gun sales.
So the big increase was between '12 and '13.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I guess as we look ahead to 2015 can you give us just a general framework for growth? I mean I know you're coming into the peak selling season and I know it's early but I think it'd be helpful to get an updated perspective on what you view as a normal comp.
And then you did talk about the expense initiatives being largely sustainable.
But I mean if you can frame it I mean is this still a better-than-mid-teens growth business next year? Or if that's ambitious then I think it would be helpful to know that because the Street numbers kind of reflect that.
Well I'll let you guys model that but I guess my expectation and this -- in your reference to a crystal ball I mean I've always talked about this business as being a 2% to a 3% or 2% to 4% kind of comp-ing business.
And as we sit here in July of '14 that would be my expectation for '15.
So then you got to add into that the growth in square footage which we have largely communicated historically probably a flat to declining slightly Direct business.
And then growth as we've outlined several times in our card business commensurate with our square footage growth.
So I think we're still very optimistic about 2015.
Tommy? I absolutely agree.
Research Division</strong> And I'm probably over here but I'm going to sneak in one last one.
Just to clarify on the license fees from the CLUB business to the merchandising business.
Did that have like a 200-basis-point impact on the margins? Or how did that...
Well let me give you exactly the numbers because it's a little bit -- it is I admittedly a little bit confusing.
The total amount of the payments was an increase of $14 million of which $13 million went to Retail and $1 million went to Direct.
Now ever -- just -- this is the unusual part about it.
Ever since we've had this intercompany agreement in place we had a provision that if the capital of the bank ever got above a certain level we would make additional payments equal to 1/2 -- the target was 13% so equal to 1/2 of the amount by which the capital of the bank exceeded the target.
Those payments were $11 million of the $14 million and $7 million of the $13 million that went to Retail.
In the future we intend to pay dividends which don't go through the intercompany arrangement so you won't see this sort of spike in payment between the 2 segments in the quarter.
So the only quarter this will affect us is Q1 of this year and then Q1 of '15 -- or I'm sorry Q2 of this year and then Q2 of '15 when we are growing over the payment.
But that was the nature of the payment and it's something we don't expect to see in the future.
Research Division</strong> So it helped merchandise margins by 200 basis points? It's not -- no no no.
It's not -- that particular payment is not in merchandise margins.
It's reported as operating expenses at the bank and negative operating expenses at Retail.
It has nothing to do with merchandise margins.
And we'll take our next question from Matt Nemer from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to touch on the expense reductions for a minute.
Obviously they're very impressive.
I'm wondering if you can give us some color in terms of how much is incentive comp and maybe put some numbers around some of the other big buckets there.
Matt let me -- if you don't mind let me back up to last fall.
We clearly saw the lapping of the surge coming.
As we commented we were seeing some consumer softness that started late August/September of last year.
So trying to be proactive on the one thing that we could control which was how much money we spend.
We really organized a very formal process inside the company that started last fall.
And in a corporation our size once you start it takes a little while for that snowball to start turning into an avalanche.
And so we saw some benefit in the first quarter but it just continued to accelerate as we got deeper buy-in down in the organization.
If you'll remember we sadly had to ask about 600 to 700 retail outfitters to leave the company.
That was a big one.
Certainly incentive compensation is an important factor but to hang it on incentive compensation in your mind would be a big mistake.
This is every single corner of the company.
Literally every day our folks are turning up opportunities in the distribution centers.
Chris has done -- Chris is sitting in front of me.
He's done a great job in credit card fees and literally just all over the company.
We are way less reliant on contract labor in IT right now so we rationalized priorities in IT.
Ralph and the Real Estate team are working hard to get costs down in the -- in new stores.
We're challenging every single contract that is both existing and to be negotiated.
So it's been literally across the enterprise and we felt that it was the responsible thing for us to do coming into the surge and especially with the unsettled consumer environment.
Ralph can give a little more detail.
Yes.
What I'm going to share with you Matt is just -- and I know you guys didn't see our original budget but to measure it in terms of budget seems like the best way to give you color.
Because I mean obviously the expenses were not down year-over-year and they're up slightly because of new stores.
But relative to our original budget I would tell you that only 10% to 15% of the amounts we've saved relative to budget have been incentive comp.
Let see about 1/3 of the tax have been salary and wages largely because of some of the actions Tommy referred to earlier.
Amazingly almost 10% of it has been travel.
That's just they've been asking our people to do a better job.
About 5% of it has been credit card discounts.
A surprising amount of it and this has been an initiative across the whole company more than 10% of it has been insurance and benefits.
I think that we're spending a lot of time thinking about wellness.
We're thinking about how we manage our -- in terms of benefit plans.
So it's really to Tommy's point it's all across the organization things we're -- and we're not done yet.
We're going to continue to work on it as we move later in the year.
And I would actually -- what encourages me about it is I think recently we've gotten more traction.
As you guys probably see between the second and first quarter I think we've got more traction to move throughout the year and I expect we will continue to see traction as we move into the latter half of the year.
And Matt to Jim's earlier question believe me we understand that driving revenue and getting the comp to flat and then to up is really important for us going forward.
So not gutting the marketing budgets to meet expense targets is just kind of a given because we've got to drive sales and we get that.
LLC Research Division</strong> And can we put the store experience and the merchandising organization in that same bucket those 2 areas? Absolutely.
And specifically as Ralph and our construction teams are looking at how to lower store costs we're not talking about gutting customer experience.
We're talking about construction techniques and that kind of stuff not changing in-store experience which is sacred ground here.
Yes.
What we should do some time Matt is walk to a store and I can kind of give you our impression about how we think about it where we see opportunity.
And I can give you examples it would be silly but it's literally $50 000 and $100 000 at the time going with national contracts and some of our vendors.
One of the things we looked at is I know this sounds silly but the hardware we use in all the parts of the store that the customer doesn't see doorknobs hinges those kinds of things we're just taking every aspect of the design and seeing what we can do better.
And by the way that philosophy is what has happened all across the company is how can we not impact the customer experience but do things better.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just lastly Ralph.
Can you talk to this reclassification from Financial Services into the other businesses that if this is the $5-million number that impacted the merch margin? What was the kind of purpose to that? Is that ongoing? Well it will be ongoing.
Here's the history behind that.
We for years have had the bank reimburse the merchandising business for all these promotions and things that we target to our Cabela's CLUB customers.
And in an effort just to provide more clarity what we did was we -- only it doesn't affect the segments at all but on a consolidated basis we eliminate that in the consolidated financials.
So there's entry made if you will at the end if you get down to the debits and credits that increases Financial Services revenue and increases cost of merchandise sales.
So that when you go through that and divide merchandise gross profit by merchandise revenue it goes down by an insignificant amount of money in the trend of things but we just want to make sure we have that clear with everybody.
So anyway it's not a big deal.
It doesn't affect the segment.
It doesn't affect OP income or EPS.
Or EPS.
It does have a small impact on the reported merchandise margins.
It actually though interestingly enough because the dollar amount stays flat throughout the year it'll be even less meaningful as we get into the back half of the year when revenues go up so much.
And we'll take our next question from David Magee of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple things.
One is -- so the decline in the EBIT number for credit that's entirely related to just the higher marketing fee that you described the $14 million? Yes yes.
I believe that's true.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But what does -- when you have the reversal of the loan loss where does that flow through on the Financial Services P&amp;L? Through the provision for loan losses.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's offset there.
Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly with regard to the second half sort of top line view and being a little more cautious I certainly understand why.
Is it a combination of the macro data points you hear out there? Or have you changed you're thinking about how the firearms and ammo sort of normalizes from here? Or both? David it's really not related to the firearms and ammo business.
It's just -- look we're hearing the same things you guys are hearing that it's a bit unsettled out there.
And we just thought it would be prudent to take a cautious view of the back half as relates to our out-performance in Q2.
But believe me we're pushing like hell to do better in the second half of the year as I commented earlier.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is there a specific category that you would point to that would be the most affected by macro sluggishness? No I think it'd really be kind of across the board.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It would be a traffic issue and...
Yes yes.
We'll take our next question from Chuck Ceranskosky from Northcoast Research.
If -- Tommy if you're looking at your comp base only what's your feeling about competitive openings impacting the comp base away from the macroeconomic consumer unsettledness you mentioned? It's not meaningful at all.
We haven't seen any serious intrusion that we're concerned about competitively as relates to what we're talking about for the back half of the year.
Matter of fact I would tell you a way bigger factor and this isn't even that big but a way bigger factor is probably our owing incursions.
I mean there's no question we just opened a store next to our -- we've opened our second store in Edmonton which is impacting our first store in Edmonton.
And I can't remember if you were there Chuck but our store in Christiana Delaware is clearly having some impact on Hamburg.
That is -- those are -- and keep in mind those are what? Two stores out of 45 or whatever maybe in our comp base.
But that's probably a bigger issue than competitive openings.
And Anchorage did well despite Sportsman's Warehouse and Bass Pro already being there? We are extremely pleased with our performance in Anchorage.
We'll take our next question from Stephen Tanal from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just to quickly clarify the sort of excess payments -- or payments related to excess capital at the bank.
That means basically credit segment EBIT would have been $8 million higher Retail $7 million lower and Direct $1 million lower? Is that right? Hang on.
And we may be better off -- let's see EBIT.
So let me pulled the numbers out.
Okay.
So the total increase and I'll just focus on this excess payment so the total increase was $11 million.
So Financial Services would have actually been $11 million higher and financial -- Retail would have been $7 million lower and Direct would have been $4 million lower absent that one-time deal.
And by the way when you look at the numbers particularly in Retail you see it.
Because EBIT goes from $91 million to $99 million with a down $14 million comp.
I mean that's clearly not what your expectation would have been with a down $14 million comp.
And that was because of the $7 million payment I referred to a minute ago.
Basically EBIT would have been flat with a down $14 million comp which is pretty impressive.
Research Division</strong> Right which sort of gets me to the SG&amp;A cuts which obviously were pretty good in the quarter.
Definitely better than we'd modeled.
How are you thinking about expense growth in 2015 off of these levels? Well I guess what I'm thinking about is that -- we talked about about 20% of the reduction is related to incentive comp.
We clearly will plan next year assuming that is back into the expense base.
But on the other hand what we're going to have help on this is this acceleration we've seen in expense growth -- or expense reduction initiatives throughout the year will be annualized as we move into next year which will help us offset that.
So we think that we'll have to continue to be really aggressive in managing expenses through 2015 mainly to put that incentive comp fee back into the expense structure which I'm sure all of our employees will be glad to hear.
And we're already thinking about '15 from an internal budget standpoint and we're going to -- we're setting really aggressive targets to keep costs in line which is forcing prioritization which we think is a good thing.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Okay that makes sense.
And in terms of the sort of the improving comps here I mean it sounds like July is a little bit below plan.
Clearly 2Q is a little worse.
What gives you guys confidence that sort of comps improving here for the rest of the quarter and then potentially turning to a positive in the fourth quarter? Well I think as I mentioned earlier you might not have been on the call but we roll to fall merchandise which is a big deal in 10 days to 2 weeks.
And so we get -- we feel really good about the product offering that we have combined with the fact that we come into hunting season.
One of the things Steven in my career July is always a difficult month be it on the manufacturing side or the retail side of the outdoor industry because short of camping and boating there's not a lot to hunt in the month of July.
So to our core customer there's not a heck of a reason to come into a Cabela's store.
But once the new product comes and we start promoting those new products and encouraging them to come in I think that gives us some encouragement and improvement as the quarter unfolds.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
That makes sense.
And just the last one here quickly for Ralph.
I mean sort of following up on Rick's question in terms of loan loss reserves the ratio how are you thinking about like the right level of credit quality and charge-offs today at sort of today's obviously low levels? Well if you're looking at the absolute charge-off level which was 1.67% in the quarter I think over some period of time that gets to a range of 2% to 2.25%.
Now that could take -- that might take 5 years.
I mean I don't know.
It's -- one of the things that's keeping it low is the growth of the portfolio because it does take new account some amount of time to charge off.
So if the portfolio is growing at a 12% and 13% growth rate it's going to stay low for a while.
That's obviously in the -- that comment is framed in sort of a constant macro environment but go ahead.
Research Division</strong> No understood.
And that's certainly how we've modeled that credit staying very good.
But just in terms of the reserve ratio obviously if you're -- especially if you're sort of running at low charge-offs because you're growing the book wouldn't you be reserving for sort of future potential charge-offs going up? Or...
Well the way the reserve calculation basically -- I mean you can't -- for maybe obvious reasons you can't assume things are going to get worse in the future and reserve for anticipated change in trend.
You kind of got to -- and this area gets looked at with a great deal of scrutiny as you can -- might imagine because of the temptation there to manage earnings.
So there's a very formulaic process.
But I guess at a high level the way I would think about it is if -- whatever the percentage of the reserve is to the total that will stay constant as -- that will be correlated with the charge-off rate.
So if charge-offs stay at one point -- let's just say charge-offs stay at 1.67% for 3 years.
Whatever the reserve is as a percent of the total receivables would then basically stay constant for that same period of time.
But as the portfolio grows obviously the absolute amount of the reserve would go up over time.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
So that -- I mean that basically service you'll be provisioning just the amount of charge-offs which I guess would still imply provisions going up.
But I think I understand.
I mean the reserve ratio is not going up until your charge-offs get worse [indiscernible] to the bottom line.
Right.
But it will go up -- so the point of the provision is it will go up if the portfolio grows.
So you might actually have a provision slightly greater than charge-offs as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But no idea on when that might happen? Well I talked earlier.
We would expect -- we expect the allowance to go up in the back half of the year.
We'll take our next call from Jim Chartier from Monness Crespi Hardt.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you just give us a little more color on how ammunition trended in the back half of the year? Was third quarter growth in ammunition as strong as the first half of the year? And then how did ammunition trend over the course of fourth quarter? Was it up early and then start to decline later in the quarter? Let's see.
Ammo -- it's hard to get the seasonality out.
I'm assuming you're talking about 2013? Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
In our Retail business ammo was clearly good and trended up versus 2012 in the first quarter.
Was up in the second quarter versus 2012.
Trended up about the same amount in Q3.
And then in Q4 of '13 trended down.
I think the trends in our ammunition business are pretty consistent with that.
Yes so let me just -- I'll try to add a little color to that.
The percent improvement we saw at '13 over '12 declined from the first quarter to the second quarter to the third quarter.
And then in the fourth quarter mainly because the fourth quarter of '12 was so strong in the fourth quarter we -- it was down significantly in '13.
Yes very significantly.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So the third quarter comparison in ammunition from a growth perspective is similar to what you saw in the first half? I would tell you it's easier than both the first and the second.
That's the surge-ins obviously.
So those headwinds lessen.
And actually for what it's worth in guns guns on a comp basis become much easier in the third versus the second.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then how do you guys -- there's been a lot of talk about the number of new shooters coming into the sport over last few years.
How do you think about the level of ammunition demand kind of a couple years out given that the number of people that were new to firearm? Well I would -- I still remain -- after seeing this business for 20 years I'm still long-term bullish once we -- people dig through inventories and all of that cleans itself from the system.
I think just the initiatives we see in youth shooting initiatives and females in the sport and minority outreach programs and youth programs that are occurring I still think the long-term viability of the industry in recreational shooting and hunting is solid and growing.
And we'll take our next question from Mark Smith from Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm not sure if you gave it or if you have it in front of you but do you have the sequential comps during the quarter those monthly comps? Yes but we don't -- we normally don't give comps by month.
They did get better.
They got better during the...
Sequentially better month-to-month.
Month-to-month they got better and they continue to get better.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And you might have hit on this Tommy that -- the negative 7.3% for the quarter did you see the same trend in that business excluding hunting optics shooting ammo and whatnot? We don't have that by month.
I would tell you yes only because seeing how all the categories behave.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you guys I think have previously given some full year 2014 sales guidance of mid- to high-single-digit rate.
Are you still sticking by that? Should we look at that as maybe closer to that mid-single-digit just looking at your guide for Q3? I think we gave really specific guidance in our earnings release.
And I guess I'll refer you to that.
And we gave it by quarter so I don't recall where that ends up for the year.
But...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly any -- Tommy any firearms or ammo other than 22 that you're still having trouble getting in stock? No.
In fact fill rates have gotten better.
Ammo fill rates were up almost 900 basis points except for rimfire which is still just very very difficult to get.
And I would say if there's any one long-term concern I have is that rimfire is Mark as you know it's kind of the gateway for a young person or someone else to start shooting because there's no recoil.
It's fun to go out plinking.
And the longer that stays tight it could have a long-term subtle suppressive effect on new participation.
But the pipeline of people that we've got that are new is still really rock solid.
But we're hoping that the manufacturers are going to begin to increase capacities reasonably to get us back in stock on rimfire.
But it's still a big problem.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Maybe one more.
Anecdotally looking at that -- those same trends have you've seen any shift more to 20 rather than 12 gauge or even a 410 that you've seen over the last year or 2? Actually our shotgun business was actually very encouraging.
And I wish I could tell you I knew whether that was the modern sporting rifle customer migrating to shotguns but we see positive glimmers in the shotgun business.
We'll take our next question from Andrew Burns from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones for you.
Just hoping you could elaborate on the strength you're seeing in camping.
It sounds like meaningful improvement.
What the drivers are there? And then just trying to reconcile on the ammunition commentary.
That was the one category that really underperformed to your expectations in the second quarter yet when we temper the go-forward sales trajectory it sounds like it's more of a high-level caution versus sort of resetting expectations for ammunition for the balance of the year.
Any clarification there? Yes.
That's exactly right on the second part.
That is exactly right.
It's more high-level of concern at a macro basis.
Because the interesting thing if I just look at our Direct business dollar performance in Q2 was above 2012 albeit far below 2013 and a little worse than our -- and worse than our expectations.
So that's more the concern.
Now to your camping question.
I think we're really excited about the future of our camping business.
Several years ago we perhaps got a little too out of balance between Cabela's-branded products and national brands and with a lessening focus on Cabela's-branded product.
And in the last year or 18 months a renewed focus on Cab-branded product performance and quality and real attributes in everything from tents and sleeping bags to hiking footwear our XPG line is met with at least very early encouraging signs.
So I think we're encouraged by camping.
We'll take our next question from Sean Naughton from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk a little bit about the Direct business for a minute? Down 18% in the quarter.
You kind of adjust for the shift in the $1-million impact on the transfer from the Financial Services business.
Looks like it was down about 25% from a profitability standpoint.
Just wondering how to think about that business moving forward and what are the trends that we're seeing there? Well I think we commented that the ammunition business has been such a big part of Direct.
Especially when supply was really tight at retail stores customers just defaulted to everybody online including us of that sold ammunition to try to find it.
So the boom was really positive at the peak of the surge and probably I would hope to no surprise when it's -- the surge kind of ended it really overly affected our Direct business.
Now having said that we come out of the surge period the headwinds and ammo clearly calm in the back half of the year.
We do have cannibalization.
And remember Sean it's nearly $3 million a store and we're open in -- we're going to open 6 or 7 stores here in just the next several months.
So while that $3 million doesn't happen at one-time it happens over a period of time.
We've got some headwinds there.
I think we're going to have a lot more clarity as we get into the third and fourth quarters about how our efforts in our Foothills office that we've talked to you about how our omni-channel efforts really affect the Direct business as we get away from all the muddiness that the ammo surge created in Direct.
I think we'll have a clear idea but we're committed to get that business on a long-term basis to flat to up low-single digits.
And we'll see as we get there through the third quarter and the fourth how we're doing.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And then maybe a couple questions on the credit business.
When you look at interchange I know they're soft -- softer than I would've expected quarter on interchange up about 6% average account growth close to 8%.
How should we think about why that interchange number is slowing down at the rate? Is that spending outside of Cabela's stores? Or how do I think about that? Well it's entirely -- and I have to think about this a second.
It's entirely spend outside of the store.
I was trying to quickly here calculate the percentage increase in interchange income.
But what we're seeing in that business is more and more people revolving which is actually really good for the business.
Average balance sheet going up and the percentage of people that pay us interest every month keeps going up.
I'm not sure I can necessarily at least off the top of my head answer your question with respect to interchange income.
I guess what we look at is what the percentage interchange income is it's up.
Is that right? It's up 9.6%? I'm sorry? It's up 7% which is about the same as the increase in average account.
So I guess I'm not that worried about it.
Average accounts were up 7.7% interchange is up 7%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just on the change in the merchandise reporting.
Is that something to do with how you look at the segment? Is that specifically the customer reward fees? Is that where that's coming out of? Or is that another way...
It is absolutely coming out of the customer rewards fees which is one of the reasons that's down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then I guess last question for me.
Just on the expenses.
I know you spent a lot of time on this but just quickly you guys have been talking about mid-single to high-single-digit growth each quarter coming out of Q1.
I think the number was only up about 2% and so kind of at the low end of that mid-single would be close to $5.5 million.
I would tell you that's below single in my commentary.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Right.
Right.
Yes so I guess the question really is where does that -- I mean is the $5.5 million kind of below that plus 4% growth for Q2? Is it all the things that you guys have kind of already been alluding to that just -- you're getting that proliferation of buy-ins much better across the organization? It is.
And I would tell you the only reason we're guiding for more than that as you go to the third and fourth quarter is obviously you're going to have the impact of more store openings which will put upward pressure on that.
But I've got to tell you I've been surprised every month about how our employees are continuing to react positively to what we've asked them to do around expenses.
And if that came in less than that mid-single number we have guided to I wouldn't be surprised.
It's really been remarkable.
And Sean one of the key messages that we've communicated throughout the organization is to drive savings so that we can make investments back in the business to grow the business.
And that message has really resonated across the organization which is a far different message than just cut which is not a great message.
But finding savings so we can be more efficient and make prudent investments to grow the company it's really an important message and our employees have just embraced it.
I think all of our employees Sean understand that -- have this shared vision of a country someday with 200 Cabela's stores in it.
And we all understand that we've got to get an appropriate return to our shareholders in order to make that happen and that's what we're really driving to.
And we'll take our last question from Lee Giordano from CRT Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one.
Can you update us on the omni-channel fulfillment program that you began I think it was late in 2013 and how that's working out? Yes.
Lee it's been really just flawless.
We told you it implemented on time I think last October -- early October.
And it's just worked like a charm.
And I think it's going to -- it'll help us as we get into peak in second quarter.
And I'm not prepared to share exactly what we're doing but we're trying to enhance it even more because speed to customer is getting more -- is getting increasingly more important so we're looking at some enhancements to be even quicker.
But so far just fantastic.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Gay.
If that's the last question thank you all for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you again soon.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Incorporated Third Quarter Fiscal 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Chris Gay Director Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and via webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
We are disappointed that revenue in the third quarter has been slower to rebound than we expected.
Despite the slower-than-expected rebound there are many areas of our business with which we are pleased and are worth noting.
The first is strong new store performance as new stores continued to perform at very high levels.
The second is how successful our Outfitters have been at finding cost savings opportunities to continue to reduce operating expenses across all areas of our company.
Third is the continued strong performance of Cabela's CLUB.
Finally the success and innovation of Cabela's branded products which saw increased sales penetration in the quarter.
Let's discuss sales performance first.
For the quarter comp store sales decreased 11.2%.
The decrease in comp store sales was primarily due to several factors affecting customer shopping patterns.
For the quarter transactions declined 13%.
The falloff in demand for firearms ammunition and other shooting-related categories while moderating continues to have an impact on customer spending.
Comp store sales excluding firearms ammunition and other shooting-related categories and optics we're down 7.8%.
Given the large increase in the number of new customers we saw during the surge it is not surprising that retention rates have declined slightly.
While we are keeping many of these new customers and our core customers continue to shop with us we are seeing a slight decrease in store visits per customer.
We have been pleased with average ticket in stores and saw an increase of nearly 2% for the quarter.
For the quarter direct revenue decreased 11.7% as a result of greater-than-expected decline in ammunition and other shooting-related categories as well as the impact of some cannibalization from our retail stores.
As we look at trends in direct ammunition sales over the past several years third quarter direct ammunition sales are consistent with levels we saw prior to the year-ago surge.
Our omni-channel improvements continue to gain traction as increased traffic to our new mobile site via handheld and tablet devices as well as benefits from our omni-channel fulfillment program during the quarter have been very encouraging.
We are also very excited about upcoming improvements to our omni-channel strategy such as giving our outfitters the capability to execute mobile point-of-sale and enhancing customer service with streamlined checkout.
Also during the quarter we saw increased positive customer reaction to promotional products.
Sales performance of promotional items improved significantly in the quarter compared to the prior year period.
This is a trend we expect will continue.
And as we look to the fourth quarter we expect to increase promotional activity to drive customers to our brand.
Now let's review highlights of the quarter starting with new store performance.
At the end of the third quarter for the trailing 12-month period the 20 new format stores that were opened for the full period had sales per square foot of nearly $460 outperforming our legacy store base by roughly 43%.
Additionally these same new format stores outperformed our legacy store base by approximately 57% in profit per square foot over the same period.
We continue to be pleased with the performance of our new stores and are particularly pleased with results in Anchorage Alaska; Christiana Delaware; Acworth Georgia; Tualatin Oregon; and our new stores in Canada which continued to produce extraordinary results.
The exceptional performance of these new stores continues to give us great confidence in our future store openings.
Over the last year despite experiencing lower-than-planned revenues combined with the challenges of opening 14 new stores our outfitters had displayed their deep commitment to our company.
This is particularly evident in our collective ability to control expenses.
Outfitters have worked harder with less staff and resources and yet have executed at very high levels.
For all their effort our outfitters have our deepest thanks.
During the quarter they were able to help reduce expenses by 1.5% as compared to the same quarter a year ago.
We expect ongoing benefit from these efforts in the balance of 2014 and full year 2015.
Now let's take a look at our Cabela's CLUB which had another exceptional quarter and continue to build our base of extremely loyal customers.
For the quarter the average number of active accounts increased 7.5%.
Cabela's CLUB members are our most loyal customers with higher average spend and greater purchase frequency.
Cabela's CLUB revenue increased 10.9% to $109.1 million.
This increase was primarily attributable to interest and fee income as well as interchange income.
We continued to see favorable delinquency and charge-off trends.
Charge-offs remained at extremely low levels and were just 1.56% in the quarter.
During the quarter Cabela's branded product continued to show meaningful improvement.
As a percent of total sales Cabela's branded product increased by 100 basis points.
The strength of our brand has never been greater and we are very excited for the innovative new Cabela's branded products we'll be offering to customers throughout the remainder of 2014 and into 2015.
Now turning to earnings guidance.
In light of the slower-than-expected rebound from the surge we are adjusting our full year guidance.
Thus far in October comparable store sales have improved over the third quarter levels and we now expect fourth quarter comparable store sales to decrease at a mid-single-digit rate and total revenue to grow at a high single-digit rate.
Based on these revenue projections we expect full year 2014 adjusted earnings per diluted share to be between $3.10 and $3.20.
As we look forward to 2015 it is important to note that fiscal year 2015 will have 53 weeks as compared to 52 weeks in fiscal year 2014.
While our 2015 budget is not yet finalized we expect to return to a low double-digit growth rate in both revenue and diluted earnings per share for full year 2015.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance of our Cabela's CLUB.
Thanks Tommy.
For the quarter we realized strong performance from our new stores meaningful benefit from lower expenses and strong growth in financial services revenue.
We opened our final 6 new stores for the year during the third quarter including Barrie Ontario; Cheektowaga New York; Acworth Georgia; Nanaimo British Columbia; Tualatin Oregon; and Bowling Green Kentucky.
Looking forward to 2015 we've announced plans to open 14 stores including Fort Mill South Carolina and Berlin Massachusetts in the first quarter.
In the second quarter we plan to open Garner North Carolina; Sun Prairie Wisconsin; Fort Oglethorpe Georgia; Ammon Idaho; and Moncton New Brunswick Canada.
For the third quarter we expect to open stores in Noblesville Indiana; West Chester Ohio; Oklahoma City Oklahoma; and Huntsville Alabama.
And in the fourth quarter we plan to open the final 3 stores for the year in Bristol Virginia; Calgary Alberta Canada; and League City Texas the last of which we announced this morning.
With all locations for 2015 identified we continue to look for 2016 locations.
We've announced 3 stores to date including 1 this morning in Lexington Kentucky.
As Tommy mentioned we've been thrilled of the performance of our new stores that we opened in 2013 and so far in 2014.
With the 20 new format stores opened for at least a year we have a reasonable sample of performance data.
During 2014 we made significant progress in reducing both the construction and operating cost of these new stores.
As a result we expect these and future new stores to generate a sufficient return to shareholders at sales per square foot levels below the $450 per square foot we had assumed when the stores had opened.
During the quarter merchandise gross margin decreased 100 basis points to 36.3% from 37.3% in the same quarter a year ago.
Approximately 60 basis points of the decrease is due to an adjustment in the presentation of reimbursement between segments for certain operational promotion costs which totaled $4.9 million for the quarter.
The effect of this change increases financial services revenue and merchandise cost.
This new presentation will be ongoing and have no impact to consolidated operating income or earnings per diluted share.
Now turning to operating expense.
Operating expenses decreased by 1.5% during the quarter.
The decrease in expenses of approximately $4.7 million was primarily attributable to incentive compensation expense as well as other corporate overhead which were partially offset by new store expenses.
During the quarter due to not meeting our performance objectives we had negative incentive compensation expense of $11.8 million.
We did not expect this expense reduction to occur in the fourth quarter.
For the quarter financial services revenue increased 10.9% to $109.1 million.
The increases in financial services revenue is primarily due to a 7.5% increase in the average number of active accounts.
This account growth helped drive higher interest and fee income as well as interchange income.
For the quarter average credit card loans increased by 13.0%.
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans decreased 16 basis points from the year-ago quarter and were just 1.56%.
Additionally we continue to see favorable trends in delinquencies.
Greater than 30-day delinquencies were just 0.70% as compared to 0.71% a year ago.
Greater than 60-day delinquencies were just 0.42% as compared to the same number a year ago.
And greater than 90-day delinquencies were just 0.22% as compared to 0.21% a year ago.
As mentioned in our second quarter call due mostly to continued portfolio growth we expected to increase the reserve for loan losses in the second half of the year.
In the third quarter we increased our reserve by $5.44 million.
We expect the increase in reserves in the fourth quarter to be between $1 million and $3 million.
As we look forward we expect to complete our next term securitization in the second quarter of 2015.
For the quarter financial services interest expense decreased to $16.2 million as compared to $17.1 million in the same quarter a year ago.
During the second quarter we announced plans to outsource distribution in Canada.
For the third quarter we incurred $958 000 of expenses primarily related to the transition to a third-party provider and closing of our current distribution center.
We expect to incur approximately $3 million of additional expenses related to this transition over the next 12 months.
Now let's turn to inventory.
Inventory increased by 14.6% or $119 million year-over-year to $935 million.
Over the same period we've grown retail square footage by 19.0% with 16 new stores opened since Q3 of 2013.
Additionally we were very comfortable for quality of our inventory as we enter the fourth quarter and prepare for the holiday season as well as the new store openings ahead of us in 2015.
Our third quarter effective tax rate was 40.0% compared to 31.3% in the same quarter a year ago.
The increase in effective tax rate is related to an increase in tax reserves of $3.9 million related to prior year's matters and a change in the mix of taxable income between the United States and foreign tax jurisdictions.
Our fourth quarter 2014 effective tax rate is expected to be between 34.5% and 35.5%.
With our accelerated store growth plans we expect full year 2014 capital expenditures to be between $400 million and $450 million.
Cash flow from operations is expected to be $225 million to $275 million.
Accordingly we expect to complete a small financing transaction in 2015 to fund future growth.
Now let me turn the call over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
While it's clearly taken longer than anticipated for our business to rebound following the surge in firearms and ammunition we're confident in the strength of our company.
We are very encouraged by the performance of our new stores the growth in our Cabela's CLUB loyalty program the outstanding performance of our Cabela's branded products and our ability to manage expenses.
Before turning it over for questions I want to sincerely thank our outfitters for cherishing and delighting our customers each and every day.
Well done team.
With that operator let's open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Seth Sigman with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You've obviously done a good job in navigating a very tough environment but there's still a lot of uncertainty.
If we just focus on the near term first any more color on what's to happen in October? It sounds like it's improved a little bit since last quarter but if you can maybe quantify that or any more color would be helpful.
And in general given the volatility we've seen what gives you confidence in the ability to kind of get to that negative mid-single-digit range which is a nice sequential improvement? And then I'll have a follow-up question.
Well comps October-to-date are -- have improved to about down 8%.
So we're within shooting distance of mid-single-digit.
We have seen improvement across the complex and I would particularly call out ammo Seth.
That is much better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess there was an implication that you would be more promotional in the fourth quarter.
Is that part of what's contemplated in the improvement in comps? And should we also assume that the gross margin impact in the fourth quarter would imply worse gross margins or a bigger decline than the third quarter? Well we had always felt going back earlier this year that the fourth quarter not just in our space but throughout retail was going to be an absolute dogfight for the consumers' money.
So we had planned to be pretty aggressive in the fourth quarter both in price investment in increased media spend and also in some additional investment in our outfitters at the store level.
So when you put all that together we've gotten a little more aggressive but that should -- we think margins are going to be down very slightly in Q4.
We're not going to go crazy because we do see sequential improvement both in retail in comps and in the Direct business over the last 3 quarters.
I would add one other thing to your question about October-to-date.
It would be helpful to get some cold weather to help drive soft goods sales and we really haven't -- we haven't seen much of a break in weather.
When we have and in those locations where we have there has been a nice pick up in those stores where the weather got cold and wet.
So anything you can do to get a little colder weather would be appreciative.
Research Division</strong> I'll see what I can do.
[indiscernible] sticking on that...
Seth Ralph wanted to add a comment.
Well Seth I was going to give you a little bit more color on the categories and I don't know to what extent that's helpful.
But I mean our best category in the quarter which might have been a surprise was powersports.
Now that was helped a little bit by wildlife and land management but not much.
I mean powersports was very strong and by that I'd describe as it would have been flattish even after adjusting for wildlife and land management -- the new wildlife and land management sales.
And continues so into the fourth quarter.
Right.
And then in the -- if you look at what was bad obviously firearms and shooting were down kind of mid- to high-teens kind of numbers.
And what also was a disappointment was -- were the clothing categories.
Now everything else so footwear fishing camping home and gifts all those kind of categories optics surprisingly with the gun weakness were all down kind of the mid-single digit number that we expected.
And I don't know if the -- by the way I'm not blaming the clothing problem in the third quarter on weather but to Thomas' point earlier if we got some weather to help clothing sales that would make a meaningful improvement in our comp performance.
And as Tommy alluded to we're already seeing kind of down 8 kind of numbers as we start off the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful because I was going to ask about those non-shooting categories where you didn't see improvement in aggregate but it sounds like there are pockets of improvement within there.
But in the recent quarters you guys have talked a lot about the health of the consumer and that had been an issue that had been a concern for you guys.
And I guess I'm just wondering like what's the updated view on the consumer from your perspective? Do you feel like your category is still top of mind? Or do you feel like maybe there's some wallet share shifts that maybe impacting some of those non-shooting categories? Or is it simply an attachment issue? You had a lot of traffic over the last year and you're just anniversary-ing some of that still? I mean how do we think about that? Well just by example ammo in the third quarter of last year comped up 39% and in the Direct business about 36%.
We thought when we were on the last call that we would be able to achieve that in spite of the slower than -- the slower start in July.
So -- and that was really a function of filling those back-ordered items in ammo in the third quarter.
Obviously the gun comp in the third quarter it kind of mitigated itself and we weren't up against huge huge numbers like we were in ammo.
Our view on the consumer really is -- I mean we hear a lot of stuff like you do but we're trying to ignore that and just look at the behavior of our customer.
They haven't left us.
That's the really great news.
What they are doing and these are both our core-retained customers and those customers we got during the surge they are visiting us a little less frequently versus a year ago probably not a big surprise.
And what is interesting is that they -- our sell-through on promoted items both in Direct and Retail was significantly higher than a year ago which tells us that the customer -- we still have the customer.
We're still top of their mind but they are very value-focused at least they were in the third quarter.
Because our sell-through on promoted items was meaningfully higher than the year-ago period.
So they're looking for value and deal and we intend on giving it to them in the fourth quarter.
And we will now go to Mark Miller with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> The -- so branded product penetration up 100 basis points so that includes the mix benefit of lower gun and ammo sales.
So what would be the increase in comparable categories across soft lines and hard lines for branded product? Yes.
I got that Mark.
If you look at clothing we're -- I mean we are pleased that clothing was up 60 basis points General Outdoors was up about 140 and hunting was actually -- hunting which largely includes firearms and ammunition was down about 40% largely attributable to ammunition being down in that category.
So we are pleased that both General Outdoors and Softgoods were up pretty meaningfully in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And so the Cabela's brand obviously has great technical specs and you've been pushing the price points higher to better and best but given your comments Tommy about the value-focused consumer might there be a risk that that moderate customer segment especially is viewing the store as more expensive? I mean is there anything you're doing from a customer research standpoint? Or just evaluating those risk? I mean how do you know that the store is not kind of moving away from the value orientation of some customers? Well obviously that's something Mark that we think a lot about and as we reflect back on the quarter Instinct camo which is a competitor for a high-end brand like Sitka performed really well.
And opening price point product performed pretty well.
So we're working really hard on the middle of the assortment.
I don't feel like and I don't think our merchants feel like we've gotten past our customer in terms of price point but it's something we pay very close attention to.
And remember that 60% or about of our total assortment is mapped price national branded merchandise where they're really in the chance to push the envelope.
And we will now go to Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
If we could think about the last question a little differently and get -- to get some insight on how the consumer is behaving you mentioned powersports being strong and then unlike -- it includes the whole Instinct -- the new Instinct product line.
How are customers looking at that? And how does that fit in with your view of the customer looking at value? Because some of the Land Management products are tens of thousands of dollars.
What's behind the strength in that? Well not just the Land Management products Chuck but boats have been and continue to be very strong.
Big-ticket items the car business is really good and you know that from where you live.
And boats have been really really good and wildlife and land management is gaining a nice traction.
So the consumer doesn't appear to be afraid to buy big-ticket items.
And I think it's important to put Instinct camo and all of its affiliated products in perspective.
It is a fractionally small part of the very top of our assortment in camouflage clothing and shouldn't be indicative of any broader view of the category or our pricing strategy.
I just noted in the prior question that it's off to a really nice start and we're very pleased.
The consumer though is -- it's quite interesting to say the least that they're buying real promotional items in hardgoods and softgoods and yet they're splurging on boats and tractors and they're buying cars and trucks.
And by the way Chuck to not overplay this when I talk about powersports being strong that is 95% boats.
I mean boats is what's driving that business.
And we've been really pleased with it.
The impact of wildlife and land management on the powersports category is not significant.
That's a big deal.
Boats is what's driving that category.
Got you.
And looking at your guidance for the fourth quarter it's been revised downward.
How would you characterize the fact that you've got 14 new stores ready for the holiday season in that forecast? Well I don't know.
We've been -- I mean we've been really pleased with how our new stores have performed particularly some of the bigger ones.
We obviously considered that as we are coming up with our forecast for the fourth quarter.
But one of the bright spots has really been some of those new stores have performed.
And that then...
Let me -- perhaps one other thing just to comment on.
As you know there's been an awful lot of discussion and even concern about the impact of competitors in the space would have on us and I guess on each other by definition.
We pay very close attention to that.
And it was interesting in the third quarter competitors opened 11 new stores that were near our comp stores.
And it -- they had no meaningful impact on comp performance those stores versus the rest of the stores in the comp base.
So for all the talk about square footage expansion where we saw it it had no meaningful effect at all.
Slightly to the contrary cannibalization we had 4 stores that were directly cannibalized by new next-generation stores.
They were Hamburg Pennsylvania our biggest store which was impacted by Christiana and we expected that.
And then Rogers Minnesota and Owatonna Minnesota in the Twin Cities were clearly impacted by Woodbury.
Again not a surprise for us.
And lastly in Canada we opened a second store in Edmonton because our Edmonton store was doing so much business that we needed a second store to relieve pressure on the bigger store and obviously there was cannibalization there.
But even against the total comp base the impact was less than 100 basis points.
So we affected ourselves competition didn't seem to affect us at all.
And just to finish up my question and make sure I understood Ralph's answer.
So the guidance for the fourth quarter includes the benefit of having the class of '14 stores open ahead of the quarter? Yes.
And we will now go to Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just I wanted to turn to the cost side for a minute.
Outside of the incentive comp declines that you guys outlined could you just take us through some of the other areas where you were able to cut expenses in the quarter? Yes.
After incentive comp which is by far the biggest the next biggest category was just salary and wages and that was really -- as we give the comment to how our outfitters have been doing that's just a great example of where we have tried to reduce labor across the company.
Obviously some of that's the retail store level with lower comp store sales but that is by far the next biggest piece.
Then the rest of it quite frankly is largely just nips and naps [ph] around the rest of the company the rest of the line items from the P&amp;L.
Almost none of it interestingly enough is advertising.
We've tried to maintain advertising at really high levels despite the tough sales.
So Matt our teams have been really disciplined about not just hiring another person but trying to do more with less and trying to prioritize what needs to be done in the company.
And that's why I went out of my way to thank everybody because it's really been a team effort and they've really done a great job.
By the way Matt one area that continues to go the wrong direction is fraud losses in our card business.
I mean that's -- that is -- it's several million dollars over our original budget in the quarter.
And that's a function of the number of breaches that are occurring at other retailers around the United States.
LLC Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then sticking with that same topic.
As we look at 2015 how should we think about SG&amp;A growth -- dollar growth next year? And historically it's tracked your footage growth pretty closely.
This year it was obviously an anomaly.
Should we expect that it sort of migrates back up into the mid-teens from a growth rate standpoint? Yes.
I mean we don't think about it as correlated to square footage.
We think about it more as correlated to total revenue which by the way now is getting closer as retail becomes a bigger piece of our business.
But we're thinking about it in line with total revenue growth.
And it will be at or slightly below those levels.
Obviously the big challenge for '15 for us is we'd like for a whole bunch of reasons to introduce a big chunk of that incentive comp expense back into the base and we'll have to overcome that.
But there are some things working for us too things like we expect to get these fraud losses under control in 2015 and in the full year benefit a lot of the expense initiatives we've put in '14 will help us offset some of that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I assume your comment about double-digit growth next year includes the benefit of the extra week.
Can you give us any detail on how much that has benefited you historically from a top and bottom line standpoint? Yes.
I probably won't quantify it at this time but we had absolutely included the effect of the week.
From a top line standpoint it's somewhere around -- yes somewhere -- I don't know it's reasonably significant.
We'll quantify it more on our year-end call.
Interesting from a bottom line standpoint most -- it's not that significant because most of those -- most of our expense base is measured weekly so you've got additional payroll and all those other kinds of things that go in with it.
So from a bottom line perspective I don't expect it to be that accretive.
I mean it's tens of millions of dollars of revenue.
And we will now go to Steve Tanal with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just in terms of thinking about the merchant margin decline in the third quarter sort of x those accounting adjustments can you talk about what drove that? Was it more mix shift? Do you think there's a little bit more of the promotions you're talking about in the quarter that did that? Well I would -- I mean I -- it's mainly just an effort of try to deal with a tough business.
I mean if you think -- if you look at margins in at least a couple of key categories actually in guns they were not down all that significantly.
They were down year-over-year.
We saw a bigger decline in ammunition although not as big a decline as we had in previous quarters.
So...
Steve you may not have been on the call earlier but a comment I made to an earlier question was that we did see a significant increase in the sell-through of items that were promoted which really gets to the effect of that fact on overall merch margins as being a factor.
Research Division</strong> Understood so that's the bigger driver.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so that probably continues a bit.
Understood.
And I guess is -- was that comment sort of on the Direct business as well? The margins there looked a little bit light to us.
In other words the promotional activity is kind of permeated in the channel? Yes.
I don't -- we've talked about in the aggregate.
Absolutely.
Yes because my comments about sell-through on promoted items related to the whole enterprise not just retail or direct separately.
Because we have an omni-channel approach to promoting for the most part.
And so when we get sharp it's across the enterprise.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And here you are talking about October has gotten a little bit better.
Any -- do you sort of care to opine on sort of the hunting season thus far and your expectations for how that might go and whether maybe customers are out there shooting through some of that ammunition hoard that obviously has been impacting results? Well I noted that ammo was definitely better in the month of October thus far.
I would say hunting is -- as witnessed by the improvement in comps hunting is better.
It would sure be great to get some cold weather to really light up heavy outerwear products and packed foods and those kinds of things.
But it will.
I mean I don't know what the temperature is where you are but it's supposed to be 80 degrees in Sidney today and that's pretty unusual for us.
So we could use some cold weather but I'm sure it's coming.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And lastly for me just in thinking about how SG&amp;A might evolve next year could you quantify for us sort of what year-to-date the incentive comp expense is actually down year-on-year? Well I'll give you the full year number.
Last year it was for the -- this is for the full year not for 9 months it was $36 million.
And it's -- we don't expect it to be significant in 2014 for the full year.
And we will now go to David Magee with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Lynda in for David.
First could you guys give us some puts and takes on the upcoming holiday season? From what perspective? Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess from being prepared for the consumer with thoughts along those lines.
Yes.
We're going to be pretty aggressive ahead of Black Friday through Black Friday.
And we think that Cyber Monday week is going to be significant.
And we've taken a bunch of steps in the last 2 years to invest in our omni capability.
And literally in a matter of days we will have simplified checkout on cabelas.com which is a two-click checkout and has been a big initiative to just make it easier for the customer to get through checkout.
And then to relieve stress in our retail stores they have handheld mobile devices similar to what you would see in an Apple Store that allows checkout on the spot not going through a register.
And that capability is imminent in a matter of days.
And again we want to make the customer experience during the holidays very seamless.
But we think it's going to be very competitive in retail period and are prepared for it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just regarding the comp growth this quarter.
Do you guys think it was primarily driven by ammo versus some sort of share loss in the period? Well yes.
I think ammo was a leading contributor and softness in softgoods excluding footwear was definitely a contributor offset by the businesses Ralph mentioned earlier that performed to our expectations coming into the quarter like fishing camping powersports optics and footwear which I mentioned.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly are there any more additional private label products coming in for the fourth quarter? Or are they already in the stores? No they're already in the stores.
We set our fall back in August and September.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you -- would you expect similar private label -- the percentage growth that we saw this quarter would you expect something similar in the fourth quarter? Or kind of stay at the same level? Yes.
I mean I think we would expect nice growth in Cabela's branded products in the fourth quarter and going into next year.
And we will now go to Rick Nelson with Stephens.
This is Nick in for Rick.
Wondering on the 40% to 60% outperformance in sales and profit per square foot in new stores versus legacy I'm wondering if that's apples-to-apples.
So the legacy stores they have more total square feet because of allocation of scenery.
But when we compare selling space in legacy to selling space in new stores are the new stores still driving more sales per square foot? Is it -- and is it about the same ratio? And if so what's driving that? Is it the location itself being less of a destination and more of a retail-centric environment? Well let me -- I'll help you do the math.
But as a general -- as a very general rule selling square feet relative to total square feet in our newer stores versus our old stores is about 10 points higher.
So they used to be about 60% and now they're moving up to about 70%.
So you could do the math and you'd quickly see that although what you identified is part of the reason there's clearly more than just the difference between selling and non-selling square feet that's driving that.
And I'd tell you the biggest -- I mean the 2 I -- in sort of order of importance probably the most important thing is they're just smaller stores and better sized for the market.
The next most important thing is probably that ratio of non-selling to selling square footage.
And then thirdly is they're in better locations.
Okay great.
And then you guys are -- it's $460 per square foot for those new stores.
I mean  is that sustainable for those same stores going into next year? Or do you see -- I mean does that trail off...
Well the actual number I think it's $457 a square foot if you round to the nearest dollar.
And look it's going to a lot depend on what happens to the comp as we move through these years.
I mean our expectation clearly is we're going to see a comp that will moderate more significantly over time and that will be at a sustainable level.
Now that doesn't mean it doesn't go down before it goes up just we've already said comps is going to be down in the fourth quarter.
Having said that -- and it's part of what helped that number this quarter there's some really exciting stores that we've opened that are going to move into that number over time once they anniversary -- the 1-year anniversary of their opening date.
So we're really pleased with some of the new stores we've opened.
Interestingly enough if you were to make a very general statement about our store performance and this is a little bit counterintuitive but the bigger the store the better it's done.
So the stores that Tommy mentioned in this script Anchorage Cheektowaga Christiana I mean those stores are just doing really well and are some of the biggest stores we opened in 2014.
And we will now go to Jim Duffy with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So shot over the bow here I'm going to come right at you with these questions.
So first business has been more difficult than you'd expected clearly.
With the benefit of hindsight is there anything you could have done differently to see this coming? I'm not really sure Jim.
We really thought that ammo and guns in August and September would come out of the surge quicker and they didn't.
It is encouraging to me that we are seeing ammo improve really nicely thus far in October to a much better trend line.
I think the real surprise was just the performance of the softgoods complex in the third quarter in July August and September.
There was just softness there.
And with -- when we start looking at detail by category from women's base layer to logo wear from men's casual shirts to bottoms there doesn't appear to be any common denominator.
It was just a pretty tough quarter in the softgoods complex which really hurt us and we didn't see that coming.
Jim I'll -- just I said this at the end of the second quarter too.
If you go back a year the 2 things we probably underappreciated was how far ammo would fall.
We were -- we had the belief that since there are way more guns in the world today than there were 2 and 3 years ago that they would need more ammo and ammo will be stronger than it was and we probably didn't understand as well as we should have the attachment rate to other parts of the store.
Now having said that and I'll share with you a couple of more specific numbers.
If I go back to the fourth quarter of last year guns were down 20 -- a little more over 25%.
Men's apparel was up 14%.
So as I'm thinking about 2014 the fact that you would think that -- and I remember bragging that up as being pretty pleased with it.
So having an expectation that gun comps would be strong -- or gun comps would be weak and clothing would still be flattish seemed like a reasonable assumption.
Now as we moved into the third quarter of '12 we're looking at firearms down 17% but the men's apparel down 12%.
I'm not sure I know how we could have expected that phenomenon as you look back 9 months ago.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
So part of the basis to the line of questioning is given the number of new stores you're opening it's really important to know you guys have your arms around the business and can forecast it with some degree of accuracy.
What can you say that gives us more confidence that you have a better view going forward? Well I think the fact that we're seeing sequential improvement not sequential deterioration.
And I think we have a better sense of the rate of sequential improvement maybe more realistically that this is just taking a little longer and we thought it would happen more rapidly.
And I think that really gets at the core of the issue.
Jim I really appreciate the directness of your question.
And it is -- just an observation though our new stores from a revenue perspective are actually coming in pretty close to what our expectations were particularly to my earlier comments the bigger...
Despite all this macroeconomic noise.
As far as the comp goes I mean we're in a little bit of uncharted territory on coming out of this huge bubble that we had.
But we feel good about our predictability to the performance of new stores.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Here's part of the challenge guys.
So the performance of those new stores has been slipping.
The comp guidance suggests it hasn't yet found the bottom.
You're going to be borrowing money to open new stores.
What can you say to give shareholders confidence that that's a good decision? I just continue to look at those at the per square footage performance of those stores combined with the fact that we've taken a bunch of costs out of the business that we feel confident they can hit our projections.
I mean I don't know what other color I can add to that.
The new stores we now have -- 20 of those new stores have been opened for 12 months or longer and are doing $457 a foot on a lower construction cost base than we originally assumed and lower operating expenses across the entire company.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So you pro forma them at $450? What type of sales per square foot could you do and still see the returns that you need? Well I'm not -- we're still thinking about that a lot but it's easier to believe it could be 5% to 10% or less.
And we'll now go to Andrew Burns with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Thinking about the promotional cadence elevating into the fourth quarter how temporary do you view this in terms of the change in strategy given the strong consumer response that you saw in 3Q? Is this sort of a change in strategy that could potentially continue into 2015? And what would cause you to pull back on the promotion pedal? Is it just function of the consumer environment working through excess inventory? Well we're not really working through excess inventory.
That's not an issue and it's really just responding to the consumer environment.
And as we get into 2015 obviously we'll monitor that throughout the year and act appropriately.
If conditions would warrant an easing of the accelerator we will.
If we need to be more promotional we will as well.
Research Division</strong> And you talked about retention of some of the new surge-related customers declining a bit.
How do you think about this long term? What can you do to improve retention? How will this -- do you think it will progress into 2015? Well we would hope to see stabilization in 2015 and that's certainly the goal.
We think our contact strategy with the customers we retained -- that we attracted during the surge is pretty solid.
Both email catalog retail circular and email campaigns they seem to be working.
And it's interesting that our newly-acquired customers are behaving very similarly to the core retained customer in terms of a few less visits and being slightly more promotional.
And we will now go to Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
This is Shannon Richter on for Mark Smith.
Just a couple of quick questions.
Can you quantify how much of the decline in merchandise margin was due to promotional activity? No.
We don't really break it out that way but it's very -- it's slight.
Okay.
And then just one other question.
Can you give us a rough outlook for taxes next year? We'll update you more on that on the next call.
I'm not sure we're prepared to give full year guidance for next year.
I mean although just as a general comment we expect if you go look at our rate reconciliation we expect state income taxes to continue to go up over time as we expand into more states and we expect the benefit of allocation of foreign country to be smaller over time.
And we'll take our next question from Lee Giordano with CRT Capital.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little more specifically about inventory levels in the firearms channel? I know there was some issues with distributors having more inventory than expected in the back half of the year.
And then also is promotional activity in firearms a little bit above your expectations relative to the rest of the store? Lee inventories -- our inventories in guns are in very good shape.
We have -- whatever slight excess we had in modern sporting rifles I think the guys feel pretty good about where we are in those categories right now.
Ammunition inventories have improved with the exception of rimfire which remains tight and very spotty.
So from an inventory standpoint in guns and ammo we feel really good about where we are.
What we hear anecdotally is that there remain pockets within guns at the wholesale distributors and certain handguns and in modern sporting rifles that are still pretty high and I think may take all the way through 2015 for the wholesalers to work through.
And I mean you'll obviously get a better read from Smith &amp; Wesson and Ruger who are both public companies who report on that.
So what we are hearing is more anecdotal.
To your question about margin rates in guns and ammo they are down a little bit but I would say moderating.
They're not by any stretch in a free fall.
They are clearly moderating to a normal promotional cadence of us having guns and ammunition back in circulars ammo back in catalogs and the like.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just a follow-up on average ticket.
You mentioned it's up slightly in the quarter I think 2%.
Is there any particular category that driving that? Or is it pretty broad-based? Pretty broad-based.
And we will now go to Anthony Lebiedzinski with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> I was wondering if you could perhaps quantify the cannibalization effect that you guys mentioned in your prepared remarks.
Yes.
You've -- I'll go over it again.
It's slightly less than 100 basis points on the consolidated comp slightly less than -- around 100 basis points.
And it's really the result of 4 stores which is Christiana on Hamburg; Woodbury Minnesota in the Twin Cities on Rogers Minnesota and Owatonna; and then the second store in Edmonton on -- the North store on the South Edmonton store.
We -- those were not surprises.
That has performed to about what we thought would happen.
But clearly in the Woodbury store we sealed up our position in the Twin Cities and obviously gaining share in Christiana.
The issue in Edmonton was a different one.
I think as we've mentioned on prior calls we were doing so much business in the South Edmonton store that it came to a point of just too much business and we needed to release that pressure with the store up North in Edmonton.
And it's accomplished that albeit with some cannibalization.
But that was as expected.
You may not have been on the call but from a competitive incursion there were 11 new competitors who opened stores near our stores.
There was no effect.
No meaningful effect.
LLC</strong> Okay got it.
Yes I didn't hear the store commentary earlier.
It's just that I didn't hear the exact actually cannibalization effect so that's helpful color.
Just wondering if you could just talk about as far as firearms any significant differences between handguns and long guns in the quarter? No not meaningful.
I think what is interesting is we continue as we mentioned in the last call to see light return in shotguns.
They continue to have good life good -- I mean a good resurgence.
And hunting long guns are in reasonably good shape.
The softness continues to be in certain handguns and in modern sporting rifles to no surprise.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And also with the consumer responding more to promoted items are you shifting your promotions actually to focus more on higher margin categories such as apparel for example? No I wouldn't say that.
We're trying to put an offering out there at pricing that will attract customers to our stores and to our website.
It's not just an apparel focus.
It's not a shift of strategy of where we're promoting.
LLC</strong> Got it.
And also you mentioned earlier that the -- your larger stores around 100 000 square feet are doing better like Christiana Delaware for example Anchorage Alaska.
So just wondering how should we think about store size? And just this morning you announced 2 new store openings in the 70 000 to 72 000 square-foot range.
So what's the right way that we should be thinking about store size in the upcoming years? Well there's no question.
And some of this goes back to Jim's question which is a good one.
But in the past we've opened stores that are 180 000 and 40 000 square feet.
We found the 40 000 square feet quite frankly just not big enough to give our customers the selection that they're expecting.
So we're going to see the 40s move up to 50s and try to just mainly drive a little bit more efficiencies we're going to see the 180s move down to 90s and 70s.
And it's interesting as you look forward to the store opening scheduled for next year we all have one 40 000 square-foot store that we're opening next year in Ammon Idaho.
All the rest of them to your point are kind of in that 80 000 a couple of them still being opened in the 100 000 square-foot range and that's basically the 90-plus boats and tractors.
So we're clearly taking the smaller stores which are working the least well and making them bigger because we think we've identified selection as the main problem with those stores and then bringing down the size of the bigger stores just a little bit to try to get it more efficient.
So that's another reason we expect to have a lot of confidence in the stores we open in 2015.
And we will take our last question from Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
A follow-up.
How are your vendors working with you on the promotional merchandising you have set for the quarter? Chuck that's a real positive.
Our vendors have just been phenomenal in supporting our initiatives both in the third quarter and certainly now in the critical fourth quarter.
So that's a shining light that it's really encouraging.
They've really stepped up.
So they are willing to eat some margin to help you move product? They're being very supportive.
And that concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Millner at this time I'll turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
We thank you for joining us today and we look forward to talking to everyone soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Full Fiscal 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Chris Gay Director Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
While we were pleased with the strong performance of our new stores growth of market share in most of our major merchandise categories and continued strong performance of Cabela's CLUB there were several factors that kept us from meeting our expectations in the quarter primarily larger investments in advertising and promotion combined with higher-than-expected redemption rates of certain promotions lead to earnings below our original expectations.
While these factors kept us from meeting our expectations we could not be more pleased with our ability to take market share and build the strength of our brand throughout the quarter.
First let's discuss customer shopping cadence and what transpired in regard to marketing and promotions during the quarter.
From a customer shopping perspective we saw relatively strong consumer demand ahead of Black Friday and our promotional marketing was largely in line with our expectations.
As we moved through the quarter transactions softened and we began to see a more promotional retail environment.
We reacted by adjusting our promotional and marketing plans.
Throughout the second half of the quarter we added promotions and marketing events in certain periods which originally had fewer promotions planned.
In addition to our increased advertising and promotional spend customers took advantage of certain promotions at significantly higher rates than we have historically experienced.
The higher redemption rate contributed to a meaningful increase in promotional cost and a decline in merchandise gross margin.
While redemption rates varied amongst promotional offers we expect redemption rates to trend higher than we have previously experienced and have adjusted our 2015 marketing and promotional plans accordingly.
For the quarter comp store sales decreased 5.5% which represents the third straight quarter of sequential improvement.
During the quarter we were particularly pleased with the performance of our powersports and ammunition categories both of which comped positively.
Quarter-to-date performance has been encouraging as comparable store sales are down less than 1% through the first 6 weeks of the year with encouraging performance in powersports ammunition hunting equipment fishing camping and optics.
For the quarter Direct revenue decreased 5.4% as a result of a greater-than-expected decline in ammunition and other shooting-related categories as well as the impact of cannibalization from our new retail stores.
As our retail and stock levels of ammunition have improved we have seen customers shift back to making these purchases in our retail stores.
For example comparable store sales for ammunition were slightly positive as compared to direct sales of ammunition which were down double digits as compared to the same quarter a year ago.
We had several bright spots in the quarter with Direct sales growth in hunting equipment powersports optics and women's and children's apparel.
We continue to be very excited about improvements to our omni-channel model.
And during the quarter we made further progress by enhancing customer experience with streamlined checkout.
Now let's discuss new store performance.
For the full year of 2014 the 18 next-generation stores that were opened for the full period had sales per square foot of nearly $450 outperforming our legacy store base by roughly 43%.
Additionally these same stores outperformed our legacy base by approximately 59% in profit per square foot over the same period.
We have intentionally excluded the smaller 40 000 square foot stores previously referred to as Outpost stores as they have underperformed our expectations.
Similar to our efforts to improve legacy store performance in 2009 we have a dedicated team in place to analyze small store productivity to improve performance and profitability within these stores.
Therefore following the opening of our Ammon Idaho store we are not planning on opening any Outpost stores as we reevaluate the profitability and return on capital of these stores.
It is important to note all of these smaller stores are cash flow-positive and we have no plans to close any of the existing stores.
Of our 64 stores only 8 are Outpost stores and they represent just 4.8% of our total retail square footage.
We continue to be pleased with the performance of our next-generation stores and are particularly pleased with the results in Christiana Delaware; Tualatin Oregon and our new stores in Canada which continued to produce strong results.
The exceptional performance of these new stores continues to give us great confidence in our future store openings with our 2015 store openings marking our entrance into many highly anticipated markets.
Now let's take a look at our Cabela's CLUB which had another exceptional quarter and continued to build our base of extremely loyal customers.
For the quarter the average number of active accounts increased 7.3% and the average balance of credit card loans increased by 12.1% to nearly $4.2 billion.
Cabela's CLUB members are our most loyal customers with higher average spend and greater purchase frequency.
Cabela's CLUB revenue increased 9.9% to $113.3 million.
The increase was primarily attributable to interest and fee income as well as interchange income.
We continued to see favorable delinquency and charge-off trends.
Charge-offs remained at extremely low levels and were just 1.74% in the quarter and were just 1.69% for the full year a new record low.
During the quarter we were able to grow market share in almost all of our major merchandise categories.
We are pleased with our ability to grow share during the quarter and further pleased we have seen this trend continue into the first quarter of 2015.
Now turning to earnings guidance.
While we took a more aggressive approach to promotions than originally planned we are pleased with market share gains new store performance and solid growth at Cabela's CLUB.
As a result we expect to return to a low double-digit growth rate in revenue and a high single-digit to low double-digit growth rate in diluted earnings per share for full year 2015 as compared to full year 2014 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $2.88.
Additionally we expect Q1 2015 diluted earnings per share to be roughly in line with the first quarter a year ago.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance of our Cabela's CLUB.
Thanks Tommy.
For the quarter we realized strong performance from our new stores growth of market share in most of our major merchandise categories and strong performance from Cabela's CLUB.
During the quarter merchandise gross margin decreased 150 basis points to 35.1% from 36.6% in the same quarter a year ago.
Increased sales discounts contributed 120 basis points to the decline as we became more aggressive with promotional activity during the quarter.
The remainder of the decline was attributable to an adjustment in the presentation of reimbursement between segments for certain promotional costs which totaled $5.1 million or 50 basis points for the quarter.
The effect of this change increases Financial Services revenue and merchandise cost.
This new presentation will be ongoing and has no impact in consolidated operating income or earnings per diluted share.
Increased sales discounts and the presentation change were slightly offset by increased vendor support and lower shipping expense.
Now turning to operating expenses.
For the quarter we continue to tightly manage operating expenses.
Operating expenses increased 10% while revenue increased 7.2%.
Excluding market and advertising expense operating expenses increased at a mid single-digit rate.
This increase is due to new store expenses which were partially offset by lower incentive compensation expense and tight expense management across the enterprise.
We continue to be pleased with our next-generation store performance.
For 2015 we have announced plans to open 13 new stores including Fort Mill South Carolina; and Berlin Massachusetts in the first quarter.
In the second quarter we plan to open Garner North Carolina; Sun Prairie Wisconsin; Fort Oglethorpe Georgia; Ammon Idaho; and Moncton New Brunswick Canada.
For the third quarter we expect to open stores in Noblesville Indiana; West Chester Ohio; and Oklahoma City Oklahoma.
And in the fourth quarter we plan to open the final 3 stores for the year at Huntsville Alabama; Bristol Virginia; and Calgary Alberta Canada.
These 13 stores represent roughly 1 million square feet of retail space or a 14.6% increase in square footage.
With all locations for 2015 identified we continue to look for 2016 locations and announced 5 stores to date.
For the quarter Financial Services revenue increased 9.9% to $113 million.
The increase in Financial Services revenue was primarily due to a 17% increase in interest and fee income and a 7% increase in interchange income.
Average active credit card accounts grew by 7.3% in the quarter to 1.3 million.
For the quarter average credit card loans increased by 12.1% to approximately $4.2 billion.
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans decreased 2 basis points from the year-ago quarter and were just 1.74%.
Additionally we continued to see favorable trends in delinquencies.
Greater than 30-day delinquencies were just 0.68% as compared to 0.69% a year ago greater than 60-day delinquencies were 0.41% as compared to 0.42% a year ago and greater than 90-day delinquencies were 0.22% as compared to the same number a year ago.
During the quarter we increased our reserve for loan losses by $3.9 million.
For 2015 due to continued portfolio growth we expect to increase the reserve between $5 million and $10 million for the full year.
As we look forward we expect to complete our next term securitization late in the first quarter or early in the second quarter of 2015.
For the quarter Financial Services interest expense decreased to $16.3 million as compared to $17 million in the same quarter a year ago.
During the quarter we announced plans to outsource distribution -- or during the second quarter we announced plans to outsource distribution in Canada.
For the fourth quarter we incurred an additional $775 000 of expenses related primarily to the transition to our third-party provider and the closing of our distribution center.
We expect to incur approximately $2 million of additional expense related to the transition over the next 12 months.
With our accelerating store growth plans we expect full year 2015 capital expenditures to be between $425 million and $475 million.
Cash flow from operations is expected to be between $275 million and $325 million for 2015.
Accordingly we expect to complete a financing transaction in the first half of this year to fund future growth.
Before returning the call over to Tommy let me provide a little more detail on our expectations.
Recall that 2015 is a 53-week year.
This extra week will be recognized in the fourth quarter and is expected to add $60 million to $70 million in merchandise revenue.
Financial Services revenue is not impacted as they report on a true calendar basis.
Due to the expected financing transaction in 2015 we expect to have an additional $3 million to $5 million of incremental interest expense for the year.
Additionally for full year 2015 we expect to have incremental incentive compensation expense of $25 million to $30 million compared to full year 2014.
Recall third quarter 2014 operating expenses benefited from the reversal of incentive compensation that was accrued in the first half of 2014.
As a result we expect this to be an operating expense headwind in the third quarter of '15.
I'd like to point out 2 other items that do not affect consolidated income or earnings per share.
First in the second quarter of 2014 our merchandise business received a special onetime license fee from Cabela's CLUB in the amount of $11 million.
This license fee increased profitability in our merchandising segments and decreased profitability in our Financial Services segment.
We do not expect this license fee to recur in 2015.
Secondly we expect the adjustment in the presentation of the reimbursement for the Financial Services business and the Merchandise business for certain promotional costs to be roughly $4.3 million or 75 basis points in the first quarter of 2015.
We anniversary this change in presentation in the second quarter of 2015.
Additionally we'll be hosting our Analyst Day on Wednesday March 4.
With this event being just 3 weeks from now we do not intend to provide an update to our guidance prior to or at this event.
Now let me turn the call back over to the Tommy for some comments.
Thanks Ralph.
While earnings fell short of our expectations we are encouraged by the performance of our next-generation stores increases in market share our ability to manage expenses and the growth of our Cabela's CLUB loyalty program.
We are taking steps to continue enhancements of our marketing and promotional strategies.
As a result we expect improving sales growth and earnings as we move through 2015.
Before turning it over for questions I want to sincerely thank our Outfitters for cherishing and delighting our customers each and every day.
Well done you guys.
With that operator let's open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Seth Sigman with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a question first on the quarter-to-date trend so running down 1% for the first 6 weeks.
Maybe a little bit more context around that.
Is it being promotionally driven? Have you maintained the same level of discounting as you saw in the fourth quarter? And I guess in general when you think about the earnings guidance for the year what are you embedding in there in terms of further promotional activity and the implications on gross margins? Seth it's Tommy.
Let me talk about -- give you some context behind the first quarter as it relates to the fourth and then Ralph can touch on the guidance implications.
Almost by definition January in any year is less promotional than the frenetic events of November and December and Black Friday and Christmas.
So specifically we are less promotional than we were in the fourth quarter and only -- and slightly more promotional than we were in the first 6 or 7 weeks of last year.
I think we are cautiously encouraged looking forward that we're seeing strength in some categories that normally aren't really strong this time of year like powersports camping hunting equipment.
Ammunition continues its improvements.
So those categories -- and fishing has been a good category thus far this year -- give us some cautious optimism as we come into 2015.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess a related issue on the advertising and other expenses this quarter which seem to be a little bit different than expectations.
Any more color on that? Maybe you could quantify what the impact was and how you're thinking about advertising as you look to 2015.
How much of that was opportunistic in the fourth quarter? Do you think it continues at the same level in 2015? I'm just trying to figure that out because the reality is you guys did a great job on managing expenses in 2014.
As comps improve the flow-through should be improving.
And so I think we're just trying to figure out how that shapes up.
Yes understand.
First on expense management it's a really good thing that this muscle that we developed starting about 18 months ago if you remember really did help us in the full year 2014 because against a backdrop of a really tough year coming off the surge we still realized a 9.3% operating margin for the full year.
And look we certainly had challenges in the fourth quarter but we feel pretty good about being able to hold that.
Let me give you some color on the fourth quarter.
We felt like when we talked to you guys in October that it was going to be a promotional environment and we felt pretty good about our November and December promotional cadence.
And as we started getting into November it became very clear that it sure felt like there was a lot less consumer disposable income and retailers mostly outside of our space really started cranking up offers to the point that some were almost ridiculous weeks ahead of Black Friday.
And we just felt like to protect our franchise and to maybe be opportunistic and take share we had to jump in to the fight.
And what that meant was it took more discounts as the consumer was very promotionally minded in the quarter.
So it was a combination of more promotions.
And with digital and social media and affiliate networks the consumer has gotten much more efficient at using the discounts that we give them and that's really the story.
The big impact -- we had a little bit of impact from a reserve-release -- a reserve increase at the CLUB.
But the most of the downdraft came from additional discount expense and some advertising to go along with it but it's mostly discounts.
One other point and then I'll let somebody else ask a question.
As our customers use these additional discounts their indexing across categories was pretty much in line with history.
There was no meaningful over or under indexing across categories.
It pretty much stayed true to history but it was a wickedly competitive environment.
We used our leadership position to get in the fight which a lot of our competitors can't and that was kind of the story of the quarter.
Seth as it relates to the first quarter you asked about advertising spend in the first quarter.
It is -- and some of this is just really the law of small numbers.
If you look at it as a percent it'll be up I don't know a fair amount.
But when you look at it just in absolute dollars it is just a few million dollars of increase year-over-year is sort of what our expectation is in the first quarter.
We'll take our next question from Jim Duffy with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> It's Molly Iarocci on for Jim.
Just have a couple of questions for you.
First can you speak to the makeup of comp specifically looking at your traffic trends? We're trying to figure out if you're continuing to see challenges and what this would be a function of: competition difficult compares with ammo-driven traffic last year.
Transactions were down 6.6% on a down 5.5% comp.
What other color can I give you? Here I'll provide some additional color.
When you look at the comp there were a few components in there that I guess were interesting to me.
First of all and this isn't a huge number but about 40 or 50 basis points of the comp was actually foreign currency translation in Canada just on the conversion.
And then there was probably another 150 or 200 basis points of the comp was due to cannibalization.
And we could talk about -- I'm sorry cannibalization of our own stores.
And where those markets are not surprisingly is we opened in Portland so we're cannibalizing against our store in Eugene Springfield.
We opened a second store in Edmonton.
We've got a third store in the Minneapolis-Saint Paul marketplace so there's 2 stores there you're cannibalizing off of.
And our store in Christiana that Tommy talked about as doing really well has cannibalized our Hamburg store.
So if you want more color on the comp that is some.
And obviously Tommy gave you the numbers for traffic versus ticket.
Obviously all those things affected traffic.
I don't have them broken out.
I don't have the traffic broken out between cannibalized and non-cannibalized stores.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And are you seeing traffic trends improve in the first 6 weeks of the first quarter versus fourth quarter? Or are they kind of -- is the breakdown relatively the same? Yes they're better.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a little shift in topic to real estate.
So you talked about how you are reevaluating your Outpost strategy.
Any additional color on that would be great.
Just what you're seeing that wasn't work where your focus is now going toward and then if you're still considering opening the 14 to 15 stores in fiscal '16.
And then in addition to that are you considering any other new strategies for example a sale leaseback strategy even if it's just a few stores to highlight the embedded value in the real estate? That was a bunch of questions there.
First of all I'll talk about our Outpost stores.
I mean those stores by the way are still doing really well.
And if you looked at the sales per square foot in those stores I mean they are below our big -- our next-generation stores but they would still be very enviable sales per square foot based from what some of our competitors are and they still do better than our older legacy stores for example.
But what we've got to spend a little bit of time thinking about is how can we continue to drive down construction costs of those stores and how can we run them better.
I mean our expertise is not running smaller low-volume stores.
We've got to spend a little bit of time thinking through that issue.
So we still think there's a bright future for smaller stores.
I'm not sure it needs to be as small as the 40 000 square feet that we talked about.
So anyway that's kind of -- I know Tommy has got some additional comments.
And we have -- we've assigned as I mentioned in the script a group of our best talent on a cross functional basis to look at operating cost assortments and construction cost which report to Ralph to figure out -- it's not a sales problem.
Our sales per foot are higher than what our public competitors report their stores to do.
It's more of a cost issue they cost a little bit too much to build and a little bit too much to operate.
And I think the work that went into improving our legacy stores when I got here 6 years ago is the same level of expectation that we have.
As we look to 2016 openings Ralph can comment on how we think that would affect.
Yes.
Just as we look forward to 2016 I would tell you first of all as far as number of stores it will still be something around 14 stores.
Although I'll tell you I'm way more focused on making sure we get really good stores than making sure we hit 14.
I mean you'll notice -- and it's actually because we had a deal slip but we're only doing I think 13 in 2015.
So we want to get the best stores we can to be somewhere between 900 000 and 1 million square feet.
But if we ended up at 850 000 I sure wouldn't lose any sleep about it if we felt really good about the quality the stores that we open.
Then lastly I think you opened a question about financing those? We will continue to look at a variety of ways to finance them.
We'll lease -- we have leased some stores.
Actually in preparing for the call we were viewing some leased stuff.
The number of our leased stores continues to increase as we look at some of those opportunities.
I don't know if we'll do a sale leaseback quite frankly when we look at other financing activities.
I mean in the presentation we talked about doing a transaction this year.
Quite frankly given the overall level of interest rates we think doing a straight debt deal is probably the best way to finance our stores at least for the next few years.
The leases quite frankly are more driven by real estate.
As a general rule for example most if not all of our stores that are attached to a mall or another piece of real estate we generally lease those properties.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great color.
My last question the 120 basis points impact that you discussed to merchandise margin from the increase in promotions is that about what you're anticipating the impact will be throughout fiscal '15? No I would be surprised if it is that much for the full year.
I think Seth asked earlier we are expecting the promotional activity for the full year to be the same or maybe just slightly more challenging than it was last year.
But no the 120 that we saw in the fourth quarter we would not expect to continue for the full year.
We'll take our next question from Stephen Tanal with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to follow up on the Outpost stuff too and sort of dig in a bit and understand what the implication of that is for your capacity targets.
I understand that in the past you sort of talked about smaller formats being where much of that opportunity was.
Have you had a chance to think through that? And whether there's something that you can do? And I know you mentioned 40k small formats and maybe bigger than that but I'm still thinking about real small markets here and how you get to that 225 capacity number.
Yes.
Well first of all no.
The short answer to your question is no.
We're not changing our thinking around 225 stores.
And one of the things that's really interesting as we look at some of these markets is we see just more -- as we go to every market we see more -- usually we end up seeing more opportunity than we had originally planned.
And there's a few markets where maybe we originally thought about 2 stores and now we think about 3 or we had one and we can think about a second store.
As far as the size of the stores I think it's no question that a smaller format store is something we need to have and be successful.
I think it will probably be something bigger than 40 000 square feet and probably can -- definitely cheaper to build.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
So probably more to come then.
And then the 14th store in 2015 I guess that's League City Texas based on the list you guys rattled off.
Is that canceled or is that shifting into '16 because then you'd be at 6 announced stores in '16.
We are -- you're right on League City Texas and we're continuing to work on that store and expect it to open.
But to your point we don't expect it to open in '15.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And just lastly for me expense pressure.
I guess a lot of that is advertising but I also felt like corporate was a little bit higher than I had modeled at least.
Is there anything going on in there that you care to call out? No.
No.
We're continuing to really look at expenses.
And obviously we've got a lot of low-hanging fruit in '14 but we're going to continue to look.
And we've got teams out looking for additional opportunities now.
And by the way there's a lot of not huge dollars but there's a lot of things where we're still enjoying the full year impact of actions we took last year.
And Stephen I would add that our -- beginning 1.5 years ago the organization has really embraced continuous improvement across the enterprise and that really benefited that when we ask our teams to help us figure out better ways to do things and stop doing things we didn't need to do our organization really rallied behind that idea and it really paid off for us in '14.
And we expect more of that in '15 '16 and '17.
We'll take our next question from Rick Nelson with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to ask you about the guns and ammo category how those tracked individually during the fourth quarter and your outlook for sales in those businesses for 2015.
Well let me talk about ammo first because I think it's really encouraging news.
As you remember the sharp decline in ammo in the early parts of 2014 really we did not expect.
And ammo was down 55% in the first quarter a year ago.
So to see ammo come back and comp positively and I just looked at the numbers earlier this morning it's sequentially improved in the fourth quarter: October November to December.
So it is -- it certainly seems like Rick going forward that the ammo buyer is back there's more inventory.
Our in-stock rates in retail were up over 800 basis points compared to the year before.
So that's a traffic-driving opportunity.
It's tough to see it move from direct to retail.
But look if it drives traffic in our retail stores we'll take that trade all day long.
So it certainly feels like ammo has returned to positive comp levels and continues to do so and perform nicely thus far in the first quarter.
Guns were not meaningfully worse than the total comp like 150 basis points or something like that not very much.
And we are seeing the modern sporting rifle business improve.
We are seeing shotguns pumps autoloaders and over-and-unders all improve.
And I hate to use the word normalization but it certainly does feel like firearms and they're doing better thus far in the first quarter that firearms are returning to more normal levels after a really difficult 2014.
I don't have the sense being in the business a long time as you know that firearms and ammo are doing anything but improving.
Let me give a little bit more color on that.
As you guys and I've talked to some of you guys about this but there's a chart I keep I had the guys prepare just to help me look at this that just looks at the stores that we had opened for the full year 2008 to get a sense -- to use that as sort of the base case over time to see how firearms and ammunition are performing.
And Tommy also told that they comped up in the fourth quarter.
And to give you a little color about that they were down -- at least on these 28 stores they were down slightly in October and then up in both November and December.
And it's interesting if you look at that in December in ammunition sales in retail we sold more ammunition than any year except for 2013 in December out of those 28 stores.
And in November it was the same way.
We sold more ammunition out of those 28 stores than any year except for 2013.
And in October which I already told you was only down -- I'm sorry those first 2 numbers were 2012 I misspoke.
In November and December we sold more ammunition than any year except for 2012.
And then in October we sold more ammunition out of those stores than any year except for 2013.
So I mean to Tommy's point ammo has been really healthy.
Guns have been a little bit more volatile [ph].
There are similar trends.
I mean we're selling out of those 28 stores.
We're selling the same level of guns roughly we sold in sort of the 2009 to 2010 timeframe.
And the trends are improving? Yes so it's -- and one of the things you'll hear us talk less about is guns in total because I mean they are an important product for us.
They've been solid.
We think we sell a lot of other interesting products we're going to talk about too.
Research Division</strong> PE pressures we're hearing about in guns and ammo if you could comment there on the margins the mix is shifting away from guns.
So I guess the margin is down quite a bit.
Our experience in average unit retail to what other people are talking about is very very different.
We saw flatness there not decline.
Research Division</strong> Finally if I could ask you about inventory.
At the end of the year up 18% year-over-year; sales were up 7% merchandise sales down for the year.
How do you feel about those levels heading into 2015? Well the way we look at it Rick is inventory your right it was up 17.9% but retail square footage was up 17.3% since the fourth quarter of '13.
So we feel really good about our inventory positions don't feel like we're too heavy and in fact the quality of our inventories is really healthy also.
We'll take our next question from Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
If we're talking about market share going back Tommy to your market share comments can you get into that a little bit? How you're measuring it and how some of that market share growth looks with and without the new stores contribution to it.
Well we don't have a way to look at share parsing out comp stores.
It's in the aggregate.
The data comes from a third party source that we use and I suspect other people use and it showed in the quarter Chuck that we had share gains in almost every category.
And I think it was probably a function of being really competitive and maybe beating some people to the punch.
We have another data point and that is we have visibility to our 2 million cardholders and their usage of our card at both direct competitors larger retail soft competitors which would be our vendor stores.
And we saw a really positive swing in usage of those cards away from our competitors to us.
So you take those 2 data points and we felt really good about -- while we didn't feel great about the earnings impact we definitely took it to people from a share standpoint.
When you look at the fourth quarter performance around the promotional efforts you made how do you feel about attracting the higher end customer with more discretionary income as well as your mix of merchandise towards private label -- or the balance between private label and branded and high and low price points? I don't think it changes our thinking very much on that at all.
We were encouraged that retention rates were up about 16% in the quarter.
I think what we're more concerned about in 2015 given what we saw in the customers' really unprecedented rate of redemption on promotional offers is just how do we manage that better tighter because it's a whole new world with affiliate networks and mobile apps and comparison shopping engines and all of that stuff.
And I don't think the promotional environment in the fourth quarter of this year unless the economy improves greatly will be much less intense.
But we just had some learnings in promotional offers that we'll take into the back half of the year.
I'd love to comment more but I suspect our competitors are listening to the call and so I'd appreciate not going deeper.
I did have a question Tommy.
My last question is about the promo activity.
Is it such that when people were redeeming these promos I guess a lot of it was the dollars-off coupons on a $100 spend.
I guess $10 off of $100 I think that's what I remember as being typical.
Was it just not generating much incremental spend above the $100? Are we seeing as you maybe just suggested customers gaming it so that they're qualifying for that promotional discount but not throwing a lot of other stuff into the basket.
There was some lift but it certainly didn't offset just the gross level increase in redemption rates.
Chuck we had other promotions like a bounce-back offer where you got -- if you spend a certain amount you get $20 the next time you came back in and again it's called Cabela's Bucks.
And I mean we saw redemption rates on shipping and those kinds of offers and $20 off $150s and just about everything.
And I think it's just a new reality that we're going to have to adjust to and be smarter in how we promote.
Does that mean shelf prices need to be a little higher to deal with that? We're thinking through all of that right now.
We'll take our next question from Peter Keith with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jon Berg on for Peter.
I guess first off thanks for all the commentary on firearms.
That's been really helpful.
One more question I have is a follow-on though.
Just looking at vendor-led promotions in the quarter maybe can you comment on that a little bit as far as the level in relation to what you saw in Q3 and then how promotions in that area are trending in Q1? Well we did get more vendor support in the fourth quarter than we did in the third.
And I think our vendors who are across the enterprise were probably seeing a more promotional environment not just from us but with their other customers and maybe even their own e-commerce and store formats.
I don't think we were unique in feeling the unbelievable pressures in November and December.
So we did get vendor support.
I wouldn't characterize the support thus far in the first quarter as anything out of the ordinary.
We have great relationships with our vendors.
We have a great balance sheet.
We now have a critical mass of stores that if they need to move merchandise we are great partner to do it with.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then Ralph I think you quantified the currency headwind on Q4 to be like 40 to 50 basis points to comp.
How are you contemplating the currency headwind in the context to your guidance for 2015? I mean do you think it's going to be kind of at a similar level or get more severe? Any commentary there would be helpful.
Oh I'm not -- as it relates to the comp I'm not sure I've got a whole lot more guidance to give you.
I mean Canada is an important part of our business.
One of the other challenge we have and quite frankly is a way bigger deal than the comp is we're selling -- we've got some earnings issue -- or earnings challenges because our Canadian entity buys a lot of product in U.S.
dollars.
So they're seeing margin pressure which we believe we've got contemplated in our guidance.
But that to me is a bigger issue than the comp.
I don't know how much of an impact it'll have in the comp for the rest of the year but we got to figure -- we got to do some work around this margin pressure we have in Canada.
And I think we are evaluating probably like most U.S.
retailers that have operations in Canada or even Canadian retailers that buy dollar-denominated from the U.S.
just having to look holistically at the prices at which we're selling merchandise in Canada.
And we're doing that today because at these levels of change you just can't sit back and do nothing.
And I think that -- I mean the answer to the question is we've got -- in our guidance we're contemplating sort of current level of exchange rates.
So -- and no change in pricing.
So either increases in pricing or a favorable movement in exchange rates would obviously be helpful.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I can sneak one last quick one in.
The West Coast ports have been in the news quite a bit recently.
I think you benefited from lower transportation costs in Q4 you called that out.
Any anticipation of higher transportation costs here as we move into the spring and summer selling season? There was some impact in the fourth quarter for us to get product expedited out of the port and that has continued into the first 6 or 7 weeks of 2015.
A concern we have for potential headwinds in Q1 which led to the guidance that we spoke about for Q1 that is the real unknown what the impact of the port shutdown could be how long it lasts because it is costing us more money before they absolutely shut down to get trailers and cans out of the ports on the West Coast.
We'll take our next question from Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just on the topic of the promotional activity.
I was hoping that you could give some color or some context around just inventory industry-wide.
There was some commentary that the mom-and-pops had a lot of MSR inventory.
I'm wondering if you think that's been cleared out.
Do you think the neighborhood has gotten a little bit healthier as we move into 2015? Yes.
I think the neighborhood has gotten healthier Matt.
My experience tells me that these things take time to move out.
At the low end of the modern sporting rifle assortments it's still very competitive but maybe easing a little bit.
And then at the upper ends where the mom-and-pops don't play so much we're seeing encouraging movement.
So our inventories are in good shape.
I think our competitors are and I think the mom and pops are healing but not totally out of the woods.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just another question on the quarter.
I'm wondering if you could talk to the performance in apparel and footwear.
That was a segment that was a little weaker than we expected in Q3.
And now that you've had some more time to analyze that I'm just curious kind of how that did in the quarter and what you think may have caused some of the weakness later in the year.
Yes.
Let me qualify what I'm going to tell you by noting that the differences between categories that performed at or better than the consolidated comp and those categories that performed worse than the consolidated comp are -- it's a very tight range with only one outlier which is powersports which just had a phenomenal comp in the quarter.
So in footwear that was a category that was better than the consolidated comp; women's and children's apparel better than the consolidated comp; hunting apparel better than the consolidated comp.
The only category in apparel that was slightly worse than the consolidated comp was men's apparel.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
That sounds like that sort of fixed itself.
And then in terms of the guidance.
Ralph can you help us out with SG&amp;A growth dollar growth for the year if we back out the incentive comp true-up that needs to take place versus 2014? What's a sort of good core SG&amp;A dollar growth rate that we should be thinking about? Well as we think about what we're doing for 2015 we've got -- I guess what we're thinking about is expenses growing at about the same rate and this -- I'm talking about operating expenses here.
Operating expense is growing at about the same rate as revenue.
That's with the incentive comp which is one of the reasons we talked -- when we gave the guidance we gave slightly higher growth in revenue than what we did in expenses then because you get some -- and then the rest of it by the way is interest expense which we talked about.
We're going to have more in interest expense this year as we do a financing deal.
But we've got sort of operating expenses growing basically at about the same rate as revenue with the incentive comp.
LLC Research Division</strong> And were there -- are there any kind of investments we should be thinking about this year for the car business like chip-and-pin technology? Or is that something that we could see later on? Well chip-and-pin is -- well actually just in -- the bank guys would kill me here if I didn't say it right we're actually doing just chip not chip-and-pin which is what most of the industry is doing.
It's chip-and-signature.
But we do expect to roll that out on the card side later this year.
So that's embedded.
It's not -- I mean it's a few million dollars.
It pales in comparison to the incentive comp issue.
We'll take our next question from Mark Miller with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions on merchandising.
Can you give us some perspective on the relative strength across good better best price points across the store? No material change Mark from prior trend.
Research Division</strong> So as price transparency is increasing for the consumer I mean I guess where I'd go with the question is the consumers is interested in promotion getting a better deal what is Cabela's -- what are your initiatives across the middle range of the assortment? You did a lot of great work on the high end.
I guess I'm wondering how much of that assortment is going to be upgraded and enhanced through '15 or should we think of this as a multiyear process? Yes it's a multiyear process and I'll use some internal jargon if you'll allow me.
It's a concept of exploding the middle which is really focusing on having great value in the middle of the assortments that are either special makeups from the vendors that can't be compared on comparative shopping engines or in Cabela's branded products.
And Mark Brian at Analyst Day is going to spend a fair amount of time on this subject so stay tuned.
I'd steal his thunder if I got a lot deeper.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'll be interested to hear that.
And then just to clarify on the comp so far in the quarter.
Can you just remind us what the comp was last year? I mean I remember we were in a deep freeze and there wasn't a lot of movement in some categories.
So I mean is it improving on a 2-year basis as well or is part of the better experience the easier compare? Well I have the comp for the last quarter last few quarters.
I'll let you guys do the math and figure out if it's better worse or indifferent.
But first quarter last year we were down 21.7.
And in '13 we're up 24 so...
We'll take our next question from Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Guys first off and I know you guys don't like to blame weather but if we look at the sequential comps in Q4 and then getting more promotional really in December how much of that maybe had to do with weather getting abnormally warm through December versus maybe promotions from peers? The weather issue really was a factor in October less so in December.
If you remember it was 70 degrees in the middle part of the country where we are so strong most of the month of October.
And then November hit and it was very cold most places.
While it did warm up a couple of times in December I don't think that had much of an impact on the business.
I think it was really consumers being very cautious with where they spent their money at Cabella's and most every retailer in the country.
I'm sure there are some outliers.
But it was definitely a war for the customer's dollar in November and December.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then looking at promotions during fourth quarter maybe how much of that was geared towards CLUB cardholders.
And if you can speak to kind of the percent of sales that you saw on CLUB cards either on fourth quarter or for the full year any delta versus the prior year.
I don't have that in front of me.
We can get that.
I don't recall Mark that we did -- if we increased promotions to the world we did like-promotional increases to our cardholders.
And actually what's interesting I don't have the data here either but I was just looking at it.
What skews that information by the way which is why I'm not sure I'd use it is a key metric is the new stores and where they're located.
I mean we've got some stores that CLUB penetration in the store quite frankly is approaching 50% at some of our older stores where not surprisingly one of the smaller stores that we have for CLUB card penetration is Anchorage.
And that's not a surprise because it doesn't have the benefit of signing up cards from all these other stores.
And so looking at it on a year-over-year basis this CLUB card penetration you kind of need to do it on a same-store basis and I quite frankly don't have that data.
But what I think it does go to show is the tremendous opportunity we have to get some of these newer stores' penetration up to where some of our older stores have been over time and that's an opportunity that I really look forward to.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just looking at SG&amp;A here and the advertising delta.
Can you quantify that in dollars? Am I right in looking at as I'm backing in on the math that it's close to $20 million [indiscernible]? I've got it.
I'm not going to give you a lot of -- that's a little high but it's -- that is a slightly higher number than I would use.
But for a bunch of competitive reasons I'm not going to give you a whole lot of guidance on that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question just what tax rate maybe we can expect in modeling going forward.
Yes it's going to continue to go up over time.
We expect it next year to be slightly higher than the federal rate of 35%.
And we'll take our next question from David Magee with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just sort of a theoretical question about this year's guidance.
If you look at the roughly 10% EPS growth that you're endorsing what is your assumption for the legacy stores? It seems to me that the stores you've added in the last year or so just given the accretive nature of new stores for you all that plus the card [ph] in itself would provide most of that growth.
Are you expecting the legacy stores to be flat to down? Well I mean I guess the way I'd address it is we're not -- at neither of our stores either the new format stores or the legacy stores we're not expecting comp store sales to be a meaningful contributor to profit in 2015.
But I don't think we think of the legacy stores separate from the new stores.
We just -- but we don't see that as a meaningful part of the growth engine for '15.
Going forward we do expect them to contribute.
We'll take our next question from John O'Neill with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First you've called out powersports a couple of quarters in a row now as being very strong.
Any plans on expanding your offerings there? And the second question with respect to the 53rd week where do you expect that to drop to earnings per share? Let me talk about the powersports thing first.
It's been really interesting over the last several quarters that as guns and ammo were down and then started to recover that there is real strength in big-ticket items like boats ATVs UTVs big ticket marine electronics.
And then our wildlife and land management business which is still in its early stages these are $20 000 to $50 000 units with attachments and we're getting sales some sales velocity there.
But boat shows thus far this year are very encouraging and much like the car business big-ticket items consumers are very interested in.
I don't think we have any significant plans to talk about in terms of expansion of boat assortment or vendors.
We think we're in a pretty good place with our powersports assortment.
In general we added a new 25 horse tractor for this year and we have good expectations for that product.
So it's really amazing to see really strong comp growth in these very expensive products relative to the rest of our assortment.
Yes.
As far as the extra week I mean it's interesting because I guess off the top of your head you'd think that'd be big upside.
But most of our expense systems like payroll for example calculate payroll by week.
So the vast majority of the expenses get -- you get an extra week of expenses too so it's not a significant contributor to profits.
And we'll take our next question from Andrew Burns with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> A quick one for you.
Ammunition sales seems to be settling out at very robust levels relative to sort of the pre-surge historical trends.
Do you think consumers are now sort of essentially buying for use or is there any sort of stockpiling anything still occurring? Yes a really good question by the way.
I think the only category that could still see a bit of hoarding maybe is in rimfire ammunition.
And to call it hoarding is maybe a stretch.
I think when we get and others get in stock in rimfire ammunition or Win Mag ammunition or 17 HMR ammunition I think people are buying everything on the shelf and they're probably using some of it.
The rest of the categories I think people are buying for consumption.
And we'll take our next question from Dan Wewer with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tommy I noticed that the website had some issues on the Thanksgiving weekend.
And if you have any sense as to that if that meaningfully impacted your Direct revenues? And then also if it suggests there is some greater infrastructure investments needed to support the website.
Well first of all welcome to your first call.
It's good to have you.
We like a bunch of other people Dan experienced on certain days during the quarter unprecedented traffic.
I mean it was a couple of days.
It was mind-boggling the number of people that were on cabelas.com.
And when you get -- when you try to drive a car that was designed to go 100 miles an hour and all of a sudden you're driving 150 it stresses everything.
So we tipped over a couple of times.
Our teams recovered really nicely.
There were some oddball issues in the code and some contention issues and servers and all kinds of technical stuff that I won't bore you with.
The long and the short of it is we learned a lot and we don't think there is anything material.
We're going to make some hardware investments but they're not material at all to the company's earnings.
And they really didn't affect revenue performance in any meaningful way.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second question.
2 of the brands in your boat category are Ranger and Stratus.
And it seems a little bit awkward now that those brands are owned by Bass Pro Shops.
But how does that affect your plans in remaining a dealer for those 2 brands? And if you're looking at contingency plans given the change in ownership.
Well I mean no comment is needed.
It's business as usual.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question I have revolves around competition in terms of real estate and just having taken a look at your new Chattanooga store and discovered that there's a Bass Pro about a mile away under construction as well which seems odd given that's not such a large market.
And if you think that's just kind of a one-off challenge or if there are any concerns that this overlap between the 2 will intensify.
I can't -- we look at a lot of sites.
And I would tell you Chattanooga is probably there's -- I would tell you there's 2 outliers and interestingly enough geographically they're pretty close to each other which is Chattanooga and Bristol.
They were both going to be pretty close to a Bass Pro shop.
We certainly don't look for that.
It does happen occasionally for whatever reason.
I guess I'd describe it more as an outlier than anything else.
I mean look it's still a big country and there's a lot of opportunity and we may be closer in some places that we'd like to be but there's a lot of places for us to go.
And Dan there are about 10 or 12 markets big markets in the United States Phoenix the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex near Hamburg Pennsylvania near Chicago near Dundee Michigan Kansas City I mean I could go on and on where we coexist with Bass in the marketplace and have done so for years.
So being close to each other my sense is they probably do pretty well where we're near them and we do pretty well where we're near them.
And so it's not something we look for but not something that gives us great concern.
And we'll go next to Jim Chartier with Monness Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions for you.
The first one can you just -- you commented on comps today in the first quarter.
Have Direct sales -- has that trend improved as well in the first quarter? And the second question you spent a lot of time at last year's Analyst Day talking about the Cabela's branded product.
I'm just curious how that performed for you in the second half of this year.
Direct sales have improved coming out of the fourth quarter.
And what was second part of your question again? About Cabela's branded product how that performed.
About the same Cabela's branded product no material change up or down.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And can you just remind us what percentage of fourth quarter sales did the Cabela's branded product account for this year? About 31%.
Ladies and gentlemen in the interest of time we will take our final question from Lee Giordano with CRT Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just real quickly guys.
I was wondering if you could talk a little more about the women's and kids in the softgoods business.
I know you've been putting a lot of effort into softgoods over the past few years.
I'm wondering if there's anything new as far as initiatives for this spring versus last year or maybe the -- prior to that.
Yes.
We're going to go into that really deep at Analyst Day.
And again I think you're going to be pleased with what you hear.
And if I told you more Brian Linneman won't speak to me for 2 weeks which might not be a bad thing but I probably better not risk that.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Tommy Millner for closing remarks.
Thanks for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you soon hopefully in a couple of weeks at our analyst meeting.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Incorporated First Quarter Fiscal 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation we will conduct a question &amp; answer session.
Instruction will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
I’d like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Chris Gay Director Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our Annual Report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
We were pleased with our first quarter results and our strong start to 2015.
With continued normalization following the extreme volatility in fire alarms and ammunition over the several periods we are pleased with the sequential improvement throughout our business.
The first quarter marks the fourth straight quarter of sequential improvement in both retail comparable store sales and direct revenue.
We were pleased with the strong performance of our new stores continued enhancement to our omni-channel model and excellent performance from our Cabela’s CLUB Visa program.
While we’re off to a strong start in 2015 we remained focused on executing our growth strategy and providing world-class service to each and every customer.
First let’s discuss the sequential improvement in comparable store sales with total comp store sales down 1.3% and U.S.
comp store sales down 4/10th of 1% for the first quarter as compared to down 5.5% and 4.7% respectively for the fourth quarter of 2014.
We saw several merchandize categories generate positive comp results in the quarter including power sports hunting equipments optics camping shooting and fishing.
The strong performance in these categories is further evidence of continued normalization throughout our business.
For the quarter direct revenue decreased 3.3% as a result of ongoing declines in ammunition sales as our customers shift back to making ammo purchases in our retail stores with inventory levels continuing to improve.
Direct revenue also face the headwind of continued canalization from our new retail stores.
For the quarter we were pleased to see improvements in direct revenue in several key merchandise categories with women’s can children’s apparel optics homing gifts and power sports all generating increases in direct sales as compared to the first quarter a year ago.
Our omni-channel strategy continues to generate meaningful improvements in the shopping experience for our customers.
During the first quarter we saw continued migration of customer traffic to mobile devices with the roughly one third of all direct channel traffic coming from handheld devices.
We continue to make significant improvements in our digital experience.
With our first quarter launch of our newly remodeled home page.
Improved retail store pages and events specific experience pages or spring 2015.
Now let’s discuss new store performance.
We continued to be pleased with the performance of our new format stores and are particularly pleased with the results in many of our new locations.
The solid performance of our new stores continues to give us great confidence in future store openings with our 2015 store openings marking our entrance into many highly anticipated markets.
Now let’s take a look at our Cabela’s club which had another exceptional quarter and continue to build our base of extremely loyal customers.
For the quarter the average number of active accounts increased 7% and the average balance of credit card loans increase by 12.3% to over $4.2 billion Cabela’s club members are our most loyal customers with higher average spend and greater purchase frequency.
Now turning to earnings guidance as the volatility in fire arms and ammunition over the past 2 years subsides.
We are confident in our outlook for full year 2015.
As a result we reaffirm our expectations for a low double digit growth rate in revenue and a high single to low double digit growth rate in diluted earnings per share for full year 2015 as compared to full year 2014 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $2.88.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance of Cabela’s club.
Thanks Tommy.
For the quarter we realized growth in merchandize sales strong performance from our new stores and strong performance from Cabela's CLUB.
During the quarter merchandise gross margin decreased 120 basis points to 33.2% from 34.4% in the same quarter a year ago.
Merchandise mix headwinds from power sports and ammunition combined with the slightly more promotional cadence early in the first quarter led to roughly 60 basis points of margin decline in the quarter.
The remainder of the decline was attributable to an adjustment in the presentation of reimbursement between segments for certain promotional costs which totaled $4.5 million or 60 basis points for the quarter.
The effect of this change increases Financial Services revenue and merchandise cost.
The new presentation will be ongoing and has no impact in consolidated operating income or earnings per share.
Now turning to operating expenses for the quarter we continue to tightly manage operating expenses.
Non-GAAP operating expenses increased 13.7% while revenue increased 14%.
We continue to benefit from many cost saving initiatives implemented over the past year and have identified several additional cost savings opportunities that are actually provide benefits in future periods.
We continue to be pleased with our next generation store performance.
We’ve open three new stores year-to-date including Fort Mill South Carolina; Berline Massachusetts and Garner North Carolina.
Additionally in the second quarter we planned to open Sun Prairie Wisconsin next week.
Fort Oglethorpe Georgia; Ammon Idaho; and Moncton New Brunswick Canada.
For the third quarter we expect to open stores in Noblesville Indiana; West Chester Ohio; and Oklahoma City Oklahoma.
And in the fourth quarter we plan to open the final three stores for the year at Huntsville Alabama; Bristol Virginia; and Calgary Alberta Canada.
We continue to identify new store opportunities for 2016 and have announced nine stores to date including Lexington Kentucky; League City Texas; Centerville Ohio; Farmington Utah; Woodberry New York; Short Pump Virginia; Owatonna Ontario Canada Abbotsford British Columbia and the new stores we announced this morning in Avon Ohio.
For the quarter financial services revenue increased 24.7% to $122.9 million.
The increase of financial services revenue was primarily due to an 18.8% increase and interest and fee income and 6.4% increase in interchange income.
Average active credit card accounts grew by 7% in the quarter to 1.9 million.
For the quarter average credit card loans increased by 12.3% to approximately $4.2 billion net charge offs as a percentage of average credit card loans decreased 27 basis points from the year-ago quarter and were just 1.53%.
The decrease in charge-off rate was primarily attributable to the acceleration in timing of the sale of charge-off loans that resulted in a 16 basis point reduction in the charge-off rate.
Additionally we continued to see favourable trends in delinquencies greater than 30-day delinquencies were just 0.71% as compared to 0.68% a year ago.
Greater than 60-day delinquencies were 0.43% as compared to 0.41% a year ago and greater than 90-day delinquencies were 0.23% as compared to 0.22% a year ago.
During the quarter we decreased our reserve for loan losses by $600 000.
For 2015 due to continued portfolio growth we expect to increase the reserve between $5 million and $10 million for the next year.
As we look forward we expect to complete our next term securitization late in the second quarter or early in the third quarter of 2015.
During the second quarter of 2014 we announced plans to outsource distribution in Canada.
For the first quarter we incurred an additional $1.2 million of expenses primarily related to the transition to our third-party provider and closing our current distribution centre.
We do not expect to incur additional expenses related to this transition.
With our store growth plans we expect full year 2015 capital expenditures to be between $425 million and $475 million.
Cash flow from operations is expected to be between $275 million and $325 million for 2015.
Therefore as we’ve previously discussed we expect to close private placement transaction in June.
Now let’s turn to inventory.
Inventory increased by 9.2% or $6.9 million year-over-year to $811 million.
Over the same period we’ve grown retail square footage by 17.5% with 14 new stores opening since Q1 2014.
Additionally we’re very comfortable with the quality of our inventory as we prepare for the new store openings ahead of us in 2015.
Our third quarter effective tax rate was 37% compared to 34.4% in the same quarter a year ago.
The increase in effective tax rate was primarily related to changes in unrecognized tax benefits and deferred tax items and an increase in our state effective tax rate.
Our full year 2015 effective tax rate is expected to be between 35.5% and 36.5%.
Before turning the call over to Tommy let me remind you of a few details pertaining to our 2015 expectations.
For the full year 2015 we expect to have incremental incentive compensation expense of roughly $30 million compared to full year 2014.
Recall the third quarter 2014 operating expenses benefited from the reversal of incentive compensation that was accrued in the first half of 2014.
As a result we expect this to be an operating expense headwind in the third quarter of 2015.
I’d like to point out two other items that do not impact consolidated income or earnings per share.
First in the second quarter of 2014 our merchandise business received a special one-time license fee from Cabela's CLUB in the amount of $11 million.
This license fee increased profitability in our merchandising segments and decreased profitability in our Financial Services segment.
We do not expect the special license fee to recur in 2015.
Secondly in adjustment in the presentation of reimbursement between the Financial Services business and the Merchandising business for certain promotional costs will have no future impact as we lag the implementation of this new presentation in the second quarter.
As Tommy mentioned we reaffirmed our expectations for the full year period.
If you recall we released approximately $3.7 million from our reserve from loan losses in second quarter a year ago.
Therefore we expect diluted earnings per share to be at or slightly below the same level as our diluted earnings per share in the second quarter a year ago.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
While we are pleased with the strong start to 2015 we are focused on continually improving our business as we recover from the extreme volatility in firearms and ammunition.
We are encouraged by the strong growth in merchandize sales sequential improvement in comparable store sales and excellent performance from Cabela’s CLUB and our new format stores.
We will continue to focus on managing expenses and enhancing our customer experience with improvements through our omni-channel model.
Before turning it over for questions I want to sincerely thank all of our outfitters for their commitment and passion in cherishing and delighting our customers every day.
Well done you guys.
With that operator let’s open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we’ll take our first question from Jim Duffy with Stifel.
You guys back to where you from providing these sales per square.
What are you seeing from new stores Ralph is that a figure you’d be comfortable giving? First of all for some reason I missed the first half of your call the first half of your question on the phone but I think you asked about sales per square foot and profit per square foot on our new stores? Correct.
Yes I’ll just tell you.
The reason we didn’t give it it didn’t change meaningfully because the comp was so near-flat.
Fair enough.
Okay.
And then … The sales number is changed in line with the comp.
You missed my present threes at the outside I guess as well hope you guys aware.
The other question I had on the merchandise business.
Can you speak to your assessment of what cannibalization was during the quarter from new stores are opening? Yes Jim its Tommy.
It was about a 100 basis points which is in line with what we’ve seen in prior periods.
I think what we were really encouraged by in the quarter if I can elaborate a bit some core categories that are – with all the noise that we’ve lived through in guns ammunition we have some core categories that are very important that comped up the United States in the quarter and that’s key categories like camping fishing honing equipment optics and power sports and that gives us reason for encouragement as we look forward in 2015.
The effect of cannibalization pretty much as its been.
Okay.
That’s great to hear.
And then I have a number of question on the bank maybe I’ll take some of those offline but Ralph can I ask you to explain again the impact to charge offs from the accelerating sales.
We just had a sale of credit card receivable to a third part which is part of a new strategy we’ve got to improve recovery rates we had about I know because people are sensitive at it it had about 16 basis point impact on the charge off rate in the quarter and we mainly called out because I didn’t want people to think about our charge off rate being as low as 153 or whatever it was in the quarter.
I mean it will be it should be closer to that one kind of number we’ve seen historically.
And we’ll take our next question from Lee Giordano with Sterne Agee &amp; Leach.
I was hoping you talk little bit more about the growth strategy for smaller markets as you grow towards your goal of 200 stores in the U.S.
what kind of markets do you think you can get into how small would you go and what kind of return metrics do you think you can get on those stores.
I know you’re not doing the uppers anymore but how is that strategy changed? Thanks.
Well we’re in the process right designing a 15 000 square foot store that could go down to some pretty small markets.
We’re not prepared to give an update on that because we’ve got a team working on it and interesting enough we have I guess I’ll call it different team we’ve got a another team of people working on the execution and performance of our upper stores and it’s a little bit ironic we’ve talked about it so much in the last three months our upper stores by far with the best comping stores in this last quarter.
So it’s exciting to see what that teams have done and some of the results from that.
So its too early the answer to your question is its too early to give a lot of detail on our smaller store formats we expect to be able to talk about that probably later this year but the improvements are our execution team as put in the upper stores is pretty exciting.
Great.
And then just lastly was there any impact in the quarter from the slow down on the west coast sports or is that behind now.
There really wasn’t a revenue impact that would be meaningful.
We did incur some cost for a good part of the quarter to get product out of the ports that flowed through emerge margin because it’s in cogs and I would quantify that as tens of [indiscernible] but something things happens in a business and we had to deal with it.
But it’s behind us long behind us.
We’ll take our next question form Seth Sigman with Crédit Suisse.
Thanks and sorry got cut off a little soon.
Apologies if it’s over repetitive but a couple of questions on the gross margin wondering if you can just elaborate on the margin performance throughout the quarter.
I think there was an indication that it was probably worse early on so just wondering how that finished the quarter and then how that’s looking early in Q2 in light of the promotional comments you mentioned.
Seth if you remember on the last call we commented that the first week of the quarter which was the after Christmas sale event which we had noted had become more important over the time we were very promotional.
So the improvement through the quarter was really the result of just returning the more normal levels of promotional activity which is kind of continued into the second quarter with similar U.S.
comps store sales performance that we saw in the first quarter all be it early in the second quarter.
So with the assumption that your merchandise margin should be flat or even improve as we move through this year? I think it’s probably way too early to apply on that just because of the size of the late third quarter and fourth quarter.
I wouldn’t want to get ahead of ourselves that much.
I’ll just add it to that our guidance presumes that they are down.
Absolutely.
And maybe just more strategically promotional activity aside what are some of things that you guys are doing to drive traffic whether it’s marketing or CRM or what they are doing that you think will be bigger drivers over the time? As we’ve said in the prior calls we continue to get better and better in digital marketing and marketing through social media as well as our use of television.
And those who are all designed to drive traffic geo-location capabilities opt-in programs on email are making a big difference as people consume newspapers circulars on an inserted basis and the papers just less and less and that’s really the future of the company as to continue to get really-really good at driving traffic to our retail stores and to our website with digital media.
We’ll go next to Joshua Reilly with Northland Securities.
Can you talk about how the promotional environment have evolved throughout the quarter? And what do you think the outlook is for the rest of the year at this point? There has been other than in the last question or two questions ago that I talked about.
Other than the first week of the quarter it’s slightly more promotional but not dramatically more promotional and we expect that slightly more promotional cadence to continue.
Okay and then one other quick question how are the inventory levels of long guns and MSR’s at this point? They are in very good shape.
But our company and I think what you see from public reporting fire arms manufacturers they are improving in the channels.
We’ll go next to Matthew R.
Nemer with Wells Fargo.
You mentioned some of the categories with comping positive and I don’t want to harp on the negative.
But I’m wondering if you could talk to where the pressure points still are in terms of categories at the store level.
Yes retail comp categories that are slightly softer or apparel and home and Gibbs and it’s really isolated there and Matt we don’t have concerns about our apparel business.
We did have a promotional shift in the quarter.
We launched our Spring Great Outdoors event two weeks later in March than normal.
So we feel really good about where our apparel business is.
But to your specific question that’s if there was relative softness that’s where it was but no concerns love the assortments both in Cabela’s branded products and international brand assortments.
They look great and we’re encouraged going forward.
And then secondly as you enter into some newer markets particularly in the Southeast I’m curious what you’re seeing in terms of your take rate on CLUB applications? And also just general CLUB behavior is it pretty similar to your other markets or anything different in terms of the club program? Well I think the short answer is it’s probably too early to tell but we’ve been really pleased with sign up rates that we’ve got at some of those new stores.
And I think there’s as we’ve discussed back there’s nothing that’s changed that doesn’t let us believe that’s a big opportunity as we open stores in some of those Southern markets.
And then just lastly Ralph could you just give us a quick update on some of the bigger cost save initiatives that I know there are some that are still sort of being harvested from last year but what are some of the cost save initiatives that you plan to put into place this year? I’m not sure we can go into a whole lot of specifics on that yet but I’ll tell you as you look at initiatives across the company there is a lot of them that are 500 000 a $1 million here and there that we can continue to look at.
I mean one of them we’ve – I mean what have we talked about historically is fraud losses in our card business I mean that’s an opportunity as we’re just now in the process of starting to unless it will be next month we will issue our first chip cards.
All those things are going to just start help drive.
The other one is and I spent some time down I hate to be I am card centric but we did a lot of work – CLUB the other day and they’ve done a lot of work to just try to figure out how to run that business better.
I think there’s a lot of opportunities there but the big opportunities are on the merchandizing side of the business just that’s where the laundry or the preponderance of the expenses are.
So we’ll work on that and continue to find opportunities there.
Matt to elaborate just a bit in merchandizing the net skew profitability tool that Brian and the merchandizing teams are using is eye opening to say the least and it’s helping us drain cost out of the entire supply chain on products both CAB branded and national brands in hard goods and soft goods and much of that net skew profitability improvement will flow through SG&amp;A not through merch margin and you could literally take most products in every category and there’s some activity going on to make it more efficient through the supply chain.
What inning going in on harvesting that opportunity? I would say like third inning.
Excellent.
Okay great start to the year.
Please go ahead.
Matt it is just interesting where you start your questioning by asking Tommy about what comps by category and when that would approve I guess it’s funny because the other way I look at it is comps by store look at the ones that are down and see what the commonality is there and then look at the ones that are up and see what the commonality is there.
I already called out that by far the best performing stores from a comp perspective in the quarter were our smaller stores.
They did really well.
When I look at the stores that are down it’s interesting you can kind of put them into one or two categories either A they’re affected by our cannibalization or secondly what you may not think about is some of our extremely Northern stores Scarborough Maine East Grand Forks [indiscernible] Montana where they rely on a lot of Canadian traffic.
Those have been challenged because of the exchange rate.
At some point soon we will lap both of those phenomenon.
We’ll go next to Rick Nelson with Stephens.
Question for your net financial services the provision came in below our forecast 1.3% annualized and last couple of quarters that was tracking 1.9% of receivables curious how we should think about that and is the normalized number still at 2% area Ralph.
Well I think the charge off the provision is keep in mind the provision is once the P&amp;L was slightly different from the charge off number for couple of reasons one of which is when we charge off interest in fee income it goes to negative interest in fee income and not through the provision line on the P&amp;L.
I called out -- the only thing that's different this quarter is we called out the 16 basis points.
Or maybe just two things that are there -- we called out the 16 basis points of improvement caused by the recovery rate.
Now one thing that’s exciting about that is the changes that our team had been putting down there will help us with the recoveries over time and is sustainable.
There is about 1.5 million that I would call as one-time.
And then the other one is we also called out that we released $600 000 of the allowance for loan losses which helped the P&amp;L a little bit.
That part of it won’t recur.
So for the rest of the year I would expect the provision to be something in the high ones the charge off rate somewhere in the 18 19 kind of range.
Thanks for the color.
Also noticed that customer rewards costs.
They were the lowest that we've seen in a number of quarters or years actually anything driving that? No we added a new disclosure this quarter which you’ll see in the 10-Q when its filed later today which is total cardholder charge volume which should track with rewards pretty as close as anything and you’ll see that spending for participant was down in the quarter which was largely a function of gas prices.
Just with the number of people that used their credit cards at gas stations with the price of gas going down we’ve seen less of that volume.
But interestingly enough we’ve seen more people revolve on their credit card and the people that are revolving interestingly enough are either at or slightly above the median FICO score.
So that helped profitability a lot just as those people started to revolve more and their credit with the customers.
So that business is going really well despite the decrease we’ve seen on charge volume per customer.
From prior periods it wasn’t negative it was just -- it grew at a lower rate right up.
No I think it actually.
Charge volume per customer is down.
Because of the gas.
Cards grew slightly faster than charge volume.
That's right.
Thanks and finally if I could ask you about the comp trend in 2Q any comments there would be helpful.
Just that early in the queue we’re seeing consistent performance from Q1.
We’ll go next to Peter Kieth with Piper Jaffray.
Thanks a lot.
It's actually Jon Berg on for Peter today.
Congrats on the good start to the year.
My first question and thanks for the help of commentary on some of your northern stores but are you guys seeing any variance in performance in your overall store base with your Texas stores or any other oil patch exposed stores maybe in Colorado? Did you see any slowing in the stores in Q1 beyond what's seasonal? You know that doesn’t jump out as you look at it by stores I mean Colorado stores continue to do really well.
Yes I just don’t see that I’m looking that some of our stores that you would think if its oil sensitive and most of them were flat to slightly positive.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
And remember we don’t have stores in and around Huston which is probably the most affected market in Texas.
My second question is it sounds like camping is off to a good start here and you'll be launching your new camping products on time for Memorial Day.
Are you planning any specific marketing campaigns to help that launch and are you expecting acceleration in that category I guess as we move through the year with new products? Well if you were watching the Academy of Country Music Awards on Sunday night we launched a television commercial announcing what we call Disconnect Day and if you look at social media you’ll see Disconnect Day all over social media and sort of the theme is to unplug to take a commitment to unplug yourself from all of your deceives for a day and go outside and camp.
And with that we launched Camp Cabela.
And I would encourage you to go look at it because it’s going to be a big deal around memorial weekend.
And for those of you who were at Analyst Day I think our assortments look really good and now to have some promotional energy behind it and a good start to the year in camping is quite encouraging.
Because that’s a big potential category for us even bigger than it is today.
Okay great.
And if I can sneak one last quick housekeeping question in for Ralph with your share repurchase announcement today I guess should we be looking at the share count to be roughly flat heading into next year then.
Yes.
It may be down a little bit year-over-year.
But it is 2 million shares and 71 million.
We’ll go next to Mark Miller with William Blair.
I'd like to get some color on the merchandise mix headwind that you called out.
How much of that was due to the timing of the apparel sale event and how quickly do you expect the merchandise mix to abate? I guess I'm surprised it's down as it is given that firearms and ammo are still down? Well remember our best performing category in the quarter was power sports which has a lower rate and we had a big quarter in power sports and that was together with ammunition comping positive it the quarter.
That was the bulk of the mix headwind Mark.
Alright.
Shifting gears how concerned are you about same store traffic down in the range of 2% to 3%.
And I guess if you can just highlight what you think of the key initiatives that can drive that towards positive? Well it’s been consistent that the blend of ticket and transaction has been pretty consistent over number quarters with transactions being down low single digits and ticket being up low single digits.
Our digital strategies are certainly trying to drive more traffic to our retail stores we’re doing a lot of event marketing to create reason to come to our retail stores and Ralph you have any more color on it.
No.
The only other thing is ammo -- I'm surprised nobody's asked me yet but ammo -- particularly ammunition was really strong in the quarter and comped up.
So yet two nice categories comping up that weren’t great margin categories which would be ammunition which is a subset of shooting and power sports.
And just a final one for me and I wanted to ask more about the small markets small format stores it sounds like you’re going to come towards later in the year.
But maybe Ralph or Tommy you could share with us within that 225 store long term objective just roughly what’s the proportion you’ve envisioned from small market format or how important is this to the long term growth that you get this format right.
It’s reasonably important I was commenting to Tommy earlier just over the whatever it has been six years that he's been here we keep focusing on smaller and smaller stores.
And it’s going to be important.
So I think we’re pleased with what the team is doing around the 50 000 square foot.
So quite frankly I’m really pleased with how well our existing small stores have been comping.
Mark we’re really pleased with the work they’ve done so far.
We’ll go next to Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Good to see the announcement of a store in Cleveland even though your building it on the wrong side of town I knew you’re going to say that.
Maybe you live on the wrong side of town.
Chuck the happiest news for you today was we’re putting a store in Cleveland.
It’s good enough.
It’s good enough.
Good to hear.
I wanted to talk on the camping issue as well.
I’ve noticed a lot of promotional activity direct mails some of your ads and how do that help the category in the quarter and do you expect some acceleration into the second quarter as the weather is better? Well it was really great to finally have an assortment that we could promote.
So we really -- as our teams in camping have done just a phenomenal job of rebuilding the category almost from a clean sheet of paper.
They segmented the customers.
They stratified the assortments good better best.
Marketing married what I think is a really powerful marketing campaign and that’s kind of the magic when you have great product and really powerful marketing funny how good things happen.
So I think we have strong hopes for the camping business not just this year but we should and will be a major player in the United States and Canada in that category going forward.
I’m very confident of that.
Any comments on shrink and how that affected results in the quarter even if it’s been positive? It’s not -- no impact.
Well flat year-over-year and it’s just a small item.
Yes.
Yes.
Somebody is trying to find the number but it was not meaningful.
And one thing I did noticed and I guess this will change over the course of the year but when you look at the operating profit by segment for the quarter financial services is almost as big as retail.
That will probably shift as year goes on but does that affect you in a way you think about the business and asset allocation? I mean no because the way I think about – basically the card business drafts off of retail and you put as much capital into that business as is required.
And I think the only -- and this isn’t a change in thinking.
The only thing I think about with respect to that is we got to make sure that our retail stores are designed to maximize card growth.
And outside of that I think of our capital allocation strategy is leading with retail and the card business drafts off it.
That’s great.
Thanks very much.
By the way shrink is flat.
We’ll go next to David Magee with SunTrust.
Sorry if I missed this is the assumption for comps as the year progresses to go from being flat to slightly down to being flat to slightly up is that what just were embedded in your guidance for the year? Yes we would certainly hope that sometime in the back half of the year we have a shot at going positive I don’t know when exactly that is but certainly the sequential improvement -- our trajectory is really good.
If I think about our change in our view point today versus our change from our view point in February when we last gave it to you is I would tell you we’re slightly more optimistic on revenue but probably a little bit more pessimistic as it relates to margin; if you want to summarize how things have changed in the last eight weeks or whatever it’s been.
And then Ralph on the comment you made early about the loan loss allowance being added this year 5 million to 10 million is that for calendar 2015 you have a number? Yes.
So should we just sort of allocate since you had actually a slight benefit in the first quarter maybe half a penny should we allocate that just equally to the next three quarters? No it’s bigger in the third and fourth quarter.
We’ll go next to John O'Neil with Imperial Capital.
I was in your Berlin store and it looked terrific and I noticed different merchandizing units merchandizing areas different placement of displays even different than stores that were opened just a year ago.
Maybe you could talk to that some of the benefits you expect to see and maybe address how that store is doing its first month and what you’re seeing for cannibalization in Hartford compared to expectations? Well first of all congratulations on pronouncing it correctly.
We’ve learned the hard way.
It’s not Berlin it’s Berlin and our customers corrected us on that which meant that we had to change some radio commercial; so one learns a lot.
To the broader point of what you’re seeing in merchandize we now have enough stores John that we should always be testing different ideas for adjacencies for what goes in front of what where fishing is how big fishing is how is a parallel assorted what does the gun wall look like? And that store was just a refinement of some of those ideas.
If I remember correctly the firearms area was all along the back wall of the store and the ATF mix check area was on the left wall of the building.
So that was an idea we learnt to eliminate congestion in the busy holiday season so I wouldn’t read into it any more than just the company really paying attention and testing new things new ideas.
And it’s really in the spirit of continuous improvement that we’ve talked about now for years that it’s not much more than that.
Store is off to a good start really like being there.
I don’t know off the top of my head if there was cannibalization at East Hartford any more than we would have modeled which we model in every store.
We’ll go next to Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
I’m not sure if you talked about this but can you just talk about sales in your Canadian stores excluding currency and what you’re seeing up there and any issues and what you can do that… Yes I mean I would tell you the Canadian store obviously the biggest challenge we’ve got in Canada it's just in Edmonton.
But I will tell you even after the cannibalization that’s well in line with where we needed it to be.
That was one of our highest -- the old store was one of our highest productive stores per square footage.
And but even outside of that comps in Canada were down slightly just some of those are oil -- somebody asked me a question earlier about oil related issues.
I think that’s where we’re seeing it is in some of these Canadian stores even outside of Edmonton.
I don’t imagine that you’re losing cannibalization people driving across the border and spending Canadian dollars here though? I’m sorry I’m not sure I understand your question but I said earlier in our comments.
Some of our stores in the U.S.
near the border are comping down and that’s one of the challenges.
Second can you talk about just giving us an update on where you are on cutting cost out of new stores and kind of what that model looks like and any improvements that you’re seeing? We’ve got teams of people that are continuing to work on improving processes.
I’m sorry do you mean operating cost or capital cost or both? Capital cost.
We’ve got it’s funny we got teams of people that are looking at every square foot of the store and justifying its existence for lack of a better word the equipment that’s there how big it is and we think there’s more to come there sort of as Tommy mentioned the spirit of continuous improvement.
And when Ralph says to the square foot he’s not exaggerating that is the methodology.
And then lastly sorry if you hit this one already but talking about ammo been up where was the firearm comp? Down slightly more than the consolidated U.S.
comp but sequentially improving as you would expect.
We’ll go next to Steve Tanal with Goldman Sachs.
In the past you’ve given us comp sort of quarter-to-date could you help us understand where you’re tracking right now? Yes in an earlier question Steve you might have just jumped on quarter-to-date comps are consistent U.S.
comps are consistent with the first quarter trend.
And Canada sort of similar as well? Yes.
Got it.
And then traffic in ticket for the overall comp was it similar to the U.S.
composition I don’t have the Canada number in front of me.
I have to get it for you.
I just don’t have it.
It’s – we’ll get it for you.
All right fair enough.
I’ll follow up on that offline.
And then just on the promotional environment.
It sounds like maybe there’s still some promos going on.
Can you sort of talk about what you’re seeing there and how that’s playing out? It’s just slightly more -- not dramatically more at this point other than that first week of the first quarter it’s been a little more promotional but not dramatically more promotional.
And is that that who’s driving that.
Is it still mom and pops or it’s more the national guys? I would say it’s just across the board depending on category.
We’ll go next to Scott Hamann with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Tommy just following up on some of the firearms and ammo questions can you kind of talk specifically about what you’re seeing promotional environment within those categories? Scott actually nothing out of the ordinary.
It seems to have returned to more normal levels.
In fact Ralph and I laughed at for all the noise that guns and ammo were in the last two years.
It’s just another category now as its come back to just kind of normality it’s just another category.
And then maybe Ralph can kind of give us an update.
You kind of give us the legacy store where those were running on guns and ammo and what kind of run-rate by year.
Can you give us an update on that? Yes I mean -- yes it’s in -- the analysis you’re referring to is I’ve got a chart I keep track of the 26 stores that were open in 2008 and how guns and ammo are running there.
It’s in line with what we talked about earlier that guns are down slightly and ammos up.
Are they running at levels that are still at 2010-‘11? Yes.
I’m sorry that’s with respect to guns higher than that with respect to ammo.
And then just within the gun category can you kind of talk about what you’re seeing in terms of shift down to lower price points or if there’s still higher price point? What’s kind of moving in those categories? I think we’re seeing really good movement in traditional hunting and target shooting shotguns kind of at all categories Bolt-Action Rifles are good.
We are starting to see movement again in Modern Sporting Rifles and handgun activity continue to see ongoing strong performance in small frame 380 handguns and I suspect that’s just coming from new participants in the sport.
The 380 is a great entrance level gun before they step up to 1911 or something bigger.
So I mean the gun business is just returning to normal trends.
We’re not seeing any downward movement that would be noteworthy? And do you feel good about your ammo inventory across most of the calibers? Yes I do we could still use a little more rimfire but that’s even getting better.
And what I feel really good about Scott is as we are coming back to normal times in guns and ammo the breadth of our assortment in ammunition I think makes us the go to place in retail for ammo and as we build more stores that’s more of an opportunity for us to capture share in new markets.
And was this M855 noise just kind of a short lived phenomenon in the quarter? It was noisy in the media.
Those categories are tiny and insignificant in our assortment.
I mean we didn’t like the whole idea of the government doing what they try to do but it was tempest in a teapot that had no material impact on our business.
I think in previous conversations I described it was interesting for a couple of weeks.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the question and answer session.
I’d now like to turn the call back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks everybody.
We look forward to talking to you again soon.
And ladies and gentlemen once again that does conclude today’s call.
We do appreciate everyone’s participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Incorporated Second Quarter Fiscal 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation we will conduct a question-answer session and instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions.
I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
And I would now turn the conference over to Andrew Weingardt Investor Relations Manager.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Andy and good morning everyone.
Before beginning I would both like to welcome Andy Weingardt to his first earnings call as our new leader of IR and express our sincere thanks to Chris Gay for a job well-done overall these years.
Chris as you may know has assumed a larger role at Cabela's and we know he will succeed immensely.
Although our second quarter results underperformed our expectations our full-year expectations remain intact.
Our second quarter results were below expectations as a result of softer than anticipated merchandise sales merchandise margin compression due to a slightly more aggressive promotional cadence and higher than expected cost related to incentive compensation and investments in labor.
During the quarter we were particularly pleased with sequential improvement in comparable store sales strong growth in several key merchandise categories and excellent performance from Cabela's CLUB.
We are confident in our ability to generate strong performance for the second half of the year with further sequential improvement in both comparable store sales and Direct revenue channel stabilization of merchandise gross margin tight expense control and operating margin expansion.
First let's discuss the continued improvement in comparable store sales with U.S.
comp store sales up 0.8% the first quarter of positive U.S.
comp store sales since the third quarter of 2013.
U.S.
comp improvement was led by positive comp performance in hunting equipment camping fishing firearms ammunition power sports and home and gift categories.
We were particularly pleased to see firearms generate positive U.S.
comps for the first time since the second quarter of 2013 and expect positive comp performance in the firearms and ammunition categories to benefit traffic to our stores.
Consolidated comparable store sales were down 0.9% for the second quarter as compared to down 1.3% for the first quarter of 2015.
We expect to see further sequential improvement in comparable store sales through the second half of the year.
For the quarter Direct revenue decreased 7% as a result of ongoing declines in ammunition sales as customers shift back to making ammo purchases in our retail stores with inventory levels continuing to improve.
Direct revenue also faced the headwind of continued cannibalization from our retail stores.
For the quarter we were particularly pleased to see continued Direct channel growth in our camping category.
Since rolling out our new assortment of camping products this spring in conjunction with our Cabela's camp branding campaign we could not be more pleased with our customers' response to this new and exciting line of products.
Our omni-channel strategy continues to generate meaningful improvements in the shopping experience for our customers.
During the second quarter we saw continued migration of customer traffic to mobile devices with nearly one-half of all Direct channel traffic coming from handheld devices.
Our investment in our new mobile platform and digital capabilities has proven to be very beneficial as we continue to see our customers migrate to mobile devices.
For the quarter merchandise margins decreased 120 basis points as compared to the same quarter a year ago.
The decrease was primarily due to headwinds from merchandise mix with lower sales penetration in soft goods and higher sales penetration in hard goods as well as a more aggressive promotional cadence.
We expect merchandise gross margins to stabilize in the second half of 2015.
Operating profit decreased by 190 basis points for the second quarter as a result of an increase in certain fixed costs such as incentive compensation new stores preopening costs and distribution in Canada.
These increases will become less impactful in the second half of the year.
We are currently executing several detailed cost savings initiatives to lower expenses that will provide meaningful benefit during the second half of 2015 and beyond.
As previously discussed in the third quarter we will lap the reversal of incentive compensation from the third quarter a year ago.
Therefore we expect expenses to deleverage again in the third quarter before leveraging expenses in the fourth quarter generating meaningful improvements to profitability.
Now let's take a look at our Cabela's CLUB which had another exceptional quarter and continued to build our base of extremely loyal customers.
For the quarter the average number of active accounts increased 7% and the average balance of credit card loans increased by 12.9% to $4.3 billion.
Cabela's CLUB members are our most loyal customers with higher average spend and greater purchase frequency.
Now turning to earnings guidance.
Strong performance in several key merchandise categories sequential improvement in comp store sales merchandise margin stabilization and tight expense management give us confidence going into the second half of 2015.
As a result we reaffirm our expectations for a low double-digit growth rate in revenue and a high-single to low double-digit growth rate in diluted earnings per share for full year 2015 as compared to full year 2014 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $2.88.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance of our Cabela's CLUB.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</strong> Thanks Tommy.
For the quarter we realized growth in several key merchandise categories sequential improvement in comparable store sales and strong performance from Cabela's CLUB.
We continue to be pleased with our next generation stores and have opened seven new stores year-to-date including Fort Mill South Carolina; Berlin Massachusetts; and Garner North Carolina in the first quarter.
Sun Prairie Wisconsin; Fort Oglethorpe Georgia; Ammon Idaho; and Moncton New Brunswick Canada in the second quarter.
For the third quarter we expect to open stores in Noblesville Indiana; West Chester Ohio; and Oklahoma City Oklahoma.
And in the fourth quarter we plan to open the final three stores for the year in Huntsville Alabama; Bristol Virginia; and Calgary Alberta Canada.
We continue to identify new store opportunities for 2016 and have announced 10 stores to date including Lexington Kentucky; League City Texas; Centerville Ohio; Farmington Utah; Woodbury New York; Short Pump Virginia; Ottawa Ontario Canada; Abbotsford British Columbia Canada; Avon Ohio and the new store we announced this morning in Summerville South Carolina.
For the quarter Financial Services revenue increased 14.2% to $124.9 million.
The increase in Financial Services revenue was primarily due to a 19.3% increase in interest and fee income and a 7.6% increase in interchange income.
Average active credit card accounts grew by 7% in the quarter to over 1.9 million.
For the quarter average credit card loans increased by 12.9% to approximately $4.3 billion.
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans increased 13 basis points from the year-ago quarter and were 1.80%.
Additionally we continued to see favorable trends in delinquencies.
Greater than 30-day delinquencies were just 0.68% as compared to 0.65% a year ago.
Greater than 60-day delinquencies were 0.39% as compared to 0.36% a year ago and greater than 90-day delinquencies were 0.20% as compared to 0.18% a year ago.
During the quarter we decreased our reserve for loan losses by $1.2 million as compared to a reduction of $3.7 million in the same quarter a year ago.
For full-year 2015 due to continued portfolio growth we expect to increase the reserve between $5 million and $10 million for the full year.
Last week we completed a five-year term securitization in the amount of $400 million at Cabela's CLUB.
The securitization transaction included $240 million which accrues interest at a fixed rate of 2.25% per year $100 million which accrues interest at a floating rate equal to one-month LIBOR plus 67 basis points and three subordinated classes of notes for $60 million.
With our accelerating store growth plans we expect full year 2015 capital expenditures to be between $425 million and $475 million.
Cash flows from operations is expected to be between $275 million and $325 million.
Therefore as we've previously discussed we have received a commitment for a private placement transaction that is expected to be executed in August.
We expect to draw $250 million in August and $300 million in December with maturities of $100 million in five years $250 million in seven years and $200 million in 10 years.
Interest is expected to be paid semi-annually at rates of 3.23% for the five-year maturities between 3.70% and 3.82% for the seven-year maturities and between 4.01% and 4.11% for the 10-year maturities.
In addition to use for general corporate proposes we expect to use these notes in the repayment of unsecured notes for $250 million at 5.99% interest due on February 27 2016.
Now let's turn to inventory.
Inventory increased by 12.2% or $98 million year-over-year to roughly $900 million.
Over the same period we have grown retail square footage by 15.3% with 13 new stores opened since Q2 2014.
Additionally we're very comfortable with the quality of our inventory as we prepare for new store openings ahead of us in 2015.
Our second quarter effective tax rate was 34.1% as compared to 35.4% in the same quarter a year ago.
The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily related to the mix of taxable income between the U.S.
and foreign tax jurisdictions and a tax credit for research and development.
These decreases in our effective tax rate were partially offset by changes in unrecognized tax benefit and a deferred tax item and an increase in our state effective tax rate.
Our full year 2015 tax rate is expected to be between 35.5% and 36.5%.
Before turning the call over to Tommy let me remind you of a few details pertaining to our 2015 expectations.
For the full year 2015 we expect to have incremental incentive compensation expense of slightly more than $30 million compared to full year 2014.
Recall third quarter 2014 operating expense benefited from the reversal of incentive compensation that was accrued in the first half of 2014 and in the second quarter we recognized negative incentive compensation expense of $11.8 million.
As a result we expect this to be an operating expense headwind in the third quarter of 2015.
I would like to point out one other item that does not impact consolidated income or earnings per share.
In the second quarter of 2014 our merchandise business received an additional license fee from Cabela's CLUB in the amount of $11 million.
This license fee increased profitability in our merchandising segments and decreased profitability in our Financial Services segment.
In the first quarter we announced that our board of directors approved a share repurchase program designed primarily to offset shareholder dilution resulting from the granting of equity-based compensation awards.
As part of this program we purchased 1 million shares of common stock in open market transactions in the second quarter.
Recall 2015 is a 53-week year.
This extra week will be recognized in the fourth quarter and we expect to add $60 million to $70 million of merchandise revenue.
The Financial Services revenue is not impacted as this is reported on a true calendar year basis.
As Tommy mentioned we reaffirmed our expectations for the full-year period with an expected third quarter headwind of approximately $90 million with incentive compensation which will be partially offset from expense management initiatives already in place.
We expect third quarter of 2015 dilutive earnings per share to be approximately $0.05 to $0.10 lower than the third quarter of 2014 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.81.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tommy for some final comments.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Ralph.
While our second quarter performance was not as strong as we had anticipated we are pleased with the many positive trends we see in our business and remain confident in our full-year expectations with opportunity to drive record performance in the back half of the year.
Before turning it over for questions I want to sincerely thank our outfitters for their commitment and passion in cherishing and delighting our customers every day.
Well done you guys.
With that operator let's open the call for questions.
Thank you sir.
And we will pause for just a moment to allow everyone an opportunity to signal.
And we will take our first question from Seth Sigman from Credit Suisse.
Okay thanks very much.
Hey guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi.
I wanted to dig into the cost reduction efforts you talked about.
I know that's been a focus for you over the last year.
But what are some of the incremental buckets you've identified here? And just wondering if you could quantify the ultimate opportunity and the timing of some of those benefits? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Seth we're not – I'm not prepared to give you the – all of the details right now.
They will be forthcoming at the appropriate time.
Suffice to say it is enterprise wide with the intent of streamlining our organization to simply get better at a lower cost.
And as we're in a position to share greater detail we will.
But it involves a real comprehensive look at how we run the business.
And I think it's going to result in meaningful savings this year into next year and into year after that are recurring savings.
Okay.
And understanding that there are some cost headwinds coming up here when would we expect to see some of those cost offsets start to hit is it late in Q3 is it more into Q4 where we could see some of that? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> It's probably – this is Ralph.
It's probably more into Q4.
There'll be some slight savings in Q3.
But as I said in the call I think I misspoke on the call.
But I think on the script I said the second quarter it's actually the third quarter.
We've got a big reversal of the incentive compensation a year ago.
So some of them will offset that.
You'll see more in the fourth quarter but probably a lot of the meaningful savings will come in 2016.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And we will call them out for sure.
Okay.
And then just one final one.
Just in terms of the discounts can you just help us understand the promotional strategy? It's obviously a topic that's come up the last couple of quarters.
You seem to be a little bit more confident that you can pull that back to achieve slightly – I guess flattish margins in the second half of this year.
Can you just talk a little bit about the strategy? Which categories do you feel like you've had to be a little bit more aggressive and help us bridge the second half? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll be glad to.
First of all in the second quarter the margin degradation was divided into two parts.
About two-thirds of it was our more aggressive promotional posture.
The balance of it was just the mix headwinds which I think everyone understands from hard goods being strong guns coming back power supports being very strong.
But on the promotional side it was really across the entire complex and it was more price sharpness than extra promotions.
So we didn't ramp up a bunch of new promotions and the reason we did that was that the second quarter is by far our lowest seasonal revenue period.
There is not a lot being hunted certainly fishing and camping are in play but we really wanted to protect our market position knowing that in the back half of the year we've got a lot of good things going for us.
Our vendors are very supportive in the back half of the year.
We think the sequential improvements that we've seen in categories like men's casual that almost pulled out a comp in the second quarter and that's an ongoing sequential improvement that's occurred over multiple quarters.
So we just really wanted to protect the second quarter and we were slightly more price promotional across the whole complex.
So has that changed here...I'm sorry.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
And I would add Seth that as the third quarter has unfolded we have seen less margin compression thus far in the third quarter as we had expected.
So less price promotional in the third quarter.
And as I look into the balance of the third quarter and the fourth quarter we learned a lot last year in the fourth quarter and probably left margin on the table unnecessarily.
I think we're wiser this year.
So I think we feel better about margin stabilization and we've certainly seen way less degradation thus far in the third quarter and we're almost four weeks since so hope that helps.
Thanks very much.
And we will now take our next question from Matt Nemer from Wells Fargo.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
First question was on new store productivity.
Obviously it's a little bit of accrued calculation because we don't know exactly when the stores open and there are different sizes.
But it looked like it was down a little bit sequentially.
Just wondering if you can comment on that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Let me – let me break it into kind of a couple of components Matt.
First our next generation stores that had been opened a year through the end of the second quarter they continue to do great.
We're trending at the 40% to 50% above legacy in sales and profit per square foot and that's been very consistent as we reported.
Interestingly our Outpost stores accelerated their performance in Q2 from Q1 levels and the Q1 levels were better than prior period.
So we continue to see this really amazing and delighting improvement in our Outpost store performance.
The stores that we opened in first quarter and second quarter were a little bit soft softer than we had expected but the trends as they have stayed opened on balance are improving and we feel good about those markets and those locations.
And I guess if there is anything we've learned in the last five years is that how a given store opens as witnessed by the Outpost you really don't know where you're until at least a year 15 months 16 months 17 months later.
So we still love those locations.
They did start a little bit slower and we'll keep you posted.
We've got some more coming in the balance of the year and we like those locations.
Okay.
And then I guess on a similar topic can you comment at all on the cannibalization impact in the quarter? There's been a lot of talk about that.
If I recall some of the stores that are experiencing that will lap or will come out of the base in the second half and then I'd love if you could just give us an update on that? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah this is Ralph.
Cannibalization continues to be about – in line with our expectation which is about a 100 basis point.
To your point we're seeing on the stores that have opened recently we're seeing a little less cannibalization than we expected.
So I would expect the cannibalization impact to go down primarily as we anniversary stores like the Lacey opening – I'm sorry the Tualatin opening in Oregon the Edmonton opening.
I mean those are pretty impactful from a cannibalization standpoint.
We've just not seen that in some of our recent openings where we would expect cannibalization.
For example Sun Prairie Wisconsin or Berlin Massachusetts.
So the cannibalization has been running in line with our expectations.
And I think there's reason to believe it's going to get better not worse.
Are there new stores that will tick that backup though as you look out to Ohio and some of your other new store openings? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> No I didn't funnel all the way through to 2016 yet but if you look at the 2016 schedule Houston should – League City Texas won't have any implication; Lexington Kentucky will have some impact on Louisville; Farmington Utah will have some impact on Lehigh.
I mean those are the ones that I kind of call out.
The one in Ohio and Cleveland is quite a ways from Columbus that I wouldn't expect that to be a big deal.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> But Matt you also have offsets with the stores coming transitioning out.
And I think our expectation is it's going to run in that 100 basis point range.
Obviously we'll keep you posted but we think we're right on track and it consistently performed to prior quarters in the second quarter no real change.
Great.
Thanks so much.
And we'll now take a question from Rick Nelson from Stephens.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
This is Nick Zangler in for Rick Nelson here.
Just to revisit the first margin question I want to I make sure I hit this.
So last quarter you suggested that promotional activity would remain elevated through 2015.
And now for the second half you're suggesting that margins keep pace with last year.
So expectations have changed.
You mentioned men's casual improvement and if you mentioned that you've seen less compression so far in 3Q.
Is there anything else you can contribute to that or does that encompass the change in forecast here? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think the collaboration with a number of our partners is certainly going to help us and I think the more that we have begun the plan for the fourth quarter which is so important I think we've been able to tighten our thinking up about lessons learned from last fourth quarter.
And so I think we feel really good about that.
But what's really encouraging are these categories in our general outdoors complex which is about 37% or 38% of our business camping fishing power sports and home and gifts all of those categories comp positively in the second quarter and that's a really good thing from a mix standpoint.
It in power sports it's certainly a drag but to see those categories really comp very strongly in the second quarter is an encouraging factor as we look to the back of the year.
The other thing Nick is that if there was ever a doubt that guns and ammunition have normalized and are not kind of subscribing to certain people's cases that they were falling off the edge of the world for us to comp positively in guns and in ammo and in the case of guns it was a mid-single digit comp.
That drives traffic to the complex in the second half of the year if past is prologue.
So we're not going so far as to say we think we can get rate increase but we certainly see enough positive factors to think we got a chance at stabilization to last year in the back half of the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then on the guns touching on that so looking – you said they were positive for the quarter and looking at the NICS checks just as a reference they were flat in April up about 5% in May and 10% in June.
I'm wondering just the cadence of the gun comp here was it positive throughout the quarter or was it perhaps June that really propelled it into the positive territory? Just looking at for how that trended throughout the quarter and what maybe in particular June that 10% comp or NICS checks that was the highest we've seen in two years.
Was there anything in particular that you could point you that may have driven that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We've said so many times I've lost track that we can't find a correlation between NICS data and what happens in our business every day.
There is just a lot of noise in the NICS data.
It's not every state they're concealed carry purchases all kinds of stuff.
So there is no real correlation.
Secondly we've never really given month-to-month comps in guns.
I'll just tell you that our gun business is really good.
And probably no surprise we have some cautious optimism that as we get into an election cycle that heightens interest in these categories.
And if it does it's a good thing for our business.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> I'll just add to that.
We did not see – within the second quarter we did not see volatility in comps consistent with the volatility you just mentioned of the NICS data.
I mean at least relative to the numbers you threw out our comps in the second quarter were pretty consistent and as we start the third quarter we're seeing comps consistent with the second.
There just does not been the sort of volatility that that NICS data would suggest.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much guys and good luck.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
We'll take our next question from Lee Giordano from Sterne Agee CRT.
Hey good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Just a couple of questions on the Direct business.
Can you talk a little bit about the mix between cannibalization versus the shift in ammo to retail? And then also what gives you the confidence in the back half of the year that you'll see sequential improvement in Direct.
What are you doing there to improve the business there? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Lee to give you a bit of context as we said our Direct business was down 7%.
That is only very slightly below our own internal plan.
So Direct kind of performed to what we expected for the quarter.
The ammo shift was by far a significant negative.
But it – for you guys that have followed us a long time when ammo gets in short supply everybody runs to the web to try to find it and as it's come back in stock there just isn't that need to go to anybody's website to buy ammunition we're certainly seeing that ongoing fall off.
Cannibalization was pretty much in line with our expectations which was only between 100 basis points and 200 basis points which is pretty consistent in our prior experience.
So as we kind of look ahead we would expect low-single digit declines and as we are – as we've entered the third quarter we're running in line with that.
So our trends are better in Q3 as we start getting into season and that gives us some confidence that we can be in that low-single digit decline range with obvious cannibalization and the shift in ammo.
Thank you.
And we'll go now to Joshua Reilly from Northland Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi there.
Thanks for taking my questions.
So on the Canada performance it seems like your – the divergence in store performance between Canada and the U.S.
is noticeable.
Is there anything else going on there besides currency and some cannibalization in the Edmonton store? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> By far the major contributor to Canada's drag on consolidated comp is foreign exchange.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> If I had to rank a number two would just be – there was just overall weakness in the broader Canadian economy in the second quarter and the last and of the three the least impactful was Edmonton.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then on the camping business which was a big focus this year as we saw at the Analyst Day.
Is the promotional environment in camping what you expected? I noticed there was some pretty significant promotions from your competitors in the camping space this year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
It was in line with our expectations.
And again I can't tell you guys how proud we are of the excellent job that our camping teams and our general outdoors teams did in evaluating a market segmenting a market building a product that the customer wanted and then launching it really effectively with Disconnect Day and Cabela's Camp and all those things came together with just spectacular performance from a merchandise standpoint.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then my final question.
Are you making any strategic moves to improve soft goods particularly men's clothing or do you think that the market will just shift at some point? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think we've been seeing this ongoing sequential improvement in men's casual.
And to get close to a flat comp was you still – you don't want a negative comp but it just scared the hell out of the flat comp.
The bigger challenge in soft goods and not just for Cabela's but our share data would tell us across the whole industry is the softness in hunting apparel in the first half of the year.
And it's hard to tell if it was weather related or are we just in an innovation cycle.
If you' remember in the last several years we launched a lot of new products like Instinct Camo and ColorPhase Camo but we are holding share.
So we're getting our fair piece of the market but that's really where the weakness was and we'll see how it unfolds in the back half of the year.
But it's really not in casual it's more in hunting apparel.
Okay.
And we will take our next question from Chuck Cerankosky from Northcoast Research.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Tommy and Ralph when you talk about the guidance for the rest of the year you are maintaining it and Ralph in indicating you expect the third quarter number to drop you're putting a lot of pressure on the fourth quarter which is often a very promotional quarter.
So how are you thinking about the fourth quarter? Do I have that right that it's going to be really a strong quarter to get to the guidance range for this year? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Well and there is a bunch of reasons for that.
First of all we've got a lot of fixed cost in the first half of the year between incentive comp and new stores.
As we become more retail-centric we just expect the profitability to shift to the fourth quarter some.
We've had to grow virtual (38:15) incentive comp which will be largely behind us.
It's not a huge deal but there is also remember a 53rd week which falls in the fourth quarter which makes that somewhat helpful also.
Although it's only single digits millions of dollars but that's helpful too.
And then you will see some of the cost savings initiatives that Tommy outlined earlier that will be implemented in the fourth quarter that will help to drive some of that out.
So we're confident of our expectations for the remainder of the year.
All right.
Thank you.
No let me go back though you say the 53rd week I meant to ask the single-digit millions of dollars is that operating profit or sales contribution? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> That's operating profit.
We expect the sales to be $60 million to $70 million.
All right.
Got it.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> So I suppose even if you look at our and I probably undersold that a little bit even if you assume that our normalized operating profit of 10% or 9% you still get $5 million or $6 million.
All right.
Thank you.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Okay.
And we'll go now to Andrew Burns from D.A.
Davidson.
Good morning.
I have a follow-up on the soft goods commentary.
Did you see any divergence in trend between the Cabela's branded product versus the national brands? Is there any sort of areas for improvement to get sharper on the private label side? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> None that I – that jump to my mind I think we've been doing a bunch of testing.
One of the changes that we made in our Outpost stores that we believe is a contributor if what our customers are telling us both with their wallets and in focus groups is that our way overbalanced when we envisioned Outpost and launched them to all the store of nothing basically but CAB branded product.
The customer told us hey give some brands too and when we did it certainly appears that that was a contributor to the accelerating performance.
I don't think that's a comment – a negative comment on CAB branded product at all.
I think it's the customer in those small towns don't have a place to buy North Face Under Armour Carhartt Columbia Danner boots and on and on and on.
So we've taken some of those learnings and have tested some I'll call them shops for lack of a better word and in some markets in our next generation stores and we're monitoring those results and – but again I'd just say we're talking about subtleties not shifts in strategy.
Okay.
Thanks.
And on the promotional cadence which has exceeded your expectations over the last few quarters what do you think the root cause of this is? Is it primarily the consumers' ability to price shop online or is it a function of store expansion into competitive markets like the Southeast or what do you think that is? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We believe it's more just the result of what was a pretty tepid first half across retail period.
That certainly had an impact in our space and against this slightly tepid background I think we just wanted to make sure that we protected and grew share and as we get in the back half of the year I think we believe those pressures mitigate somewhat because we're coming into the seasonal part of our business with a backdrop of guns and ammunitions starting to really perform well and that has helped in the past.
I suspect it will help in the back half of this year to drive traffic.
Thank you.
And we will go now to David Magee with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Yeah.
Hi everybody.
Couple of questions.
One is – you talked about cannibalization.
How much do you think that you might be impacted by competitive store openings? Is the plain field getting tougher in that regard? Is that something that you're seeing in your numbers? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> David there was no meaningful change competitively from what we've been saying.
If anything it would appear that there has been a softening of new store announcements or outright cancellation of prior stores that had been announced that now won't be opened by a few of our competitors but we'll see but no meaningful changes in impact from competitors.
Thanks Tommy.
And then my second question is are you satisfied with the level of – entry level point price point merchandise right now in your mix? Do you feel like that you have enough of that out there in today's environment? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I do.
And furthermore one of our strategies that we articulated at Analyst Day if you recall was the idea of explode the middle to really be solid value in the middle price points.
We've got enough opening price point product to get people in the door.
And again with guns and ammo improving that should create traffic opportunities if it in fact continues.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And we'll go now to Stephen Tanal from Goldman Sachs.
Hi guys.
Thanks a lot for the question.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Sure.
New store performance is one area that I think kind of surprised me a little bit to the downside.
And you mentioned that a couple of the openings or some of the openings in the first half were a little bit softer.
Can you tell us which store specifically you're referring to? And what do you think is going on there? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Well I'm not sure we want to identify the specific stores that have opened soft or strong.
And as far as what's going on there I just think we've learned that – and I can point back to several examples it takes a longtime to measure success and we'll continue to look at these stores.
We still feel really good about the locations and we'll move forward look at – and by the way a lot of this is in the case with Outpost stores is we have learnings after the stores open from both the merchandise perspective and marketing perspective and we'll continue to test different ideas down there and see what works.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think Stephen what's encouraging is to see the trends improving in those stores as time is unfolded.
Got it.
Okay.
And in terms of comps by region is there any divergence or anything worth noting there or is it pretty steady across the country? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Well I'll jump into that.
It's not steady across the country and they all have their own reasons for it including we had the same trend that I called out in the last quarter that some of our Northern stores that rely on Canadian traffic if there is a common regional theme that's it and I wouldn't say that's a huge factor on the total comp but those stores did tend to be down.
Understood.
Okay.
And just lastly if you don't mind sharing the breakdown of traffic ticket that would be helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll be glad to.
Just to be clear we don't measure traffic we measure transactions.
In Q1 transactions were down 2.4%.
In the second quarter they we down 2% and ticket was up 1.1% in the second quarter and I don't remember what ticket was in the first quarter.
We can get that to you.
All right.
Thanks a lot guys.
I appreciate it.
And we'll go now to Mark Smith from Feltl &amp; Company.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning First off Ralph can I just confirm at the end of your commentary you said you expect third quarter to be down $0.05 to $0.10 versus prior year? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah which was $0.81.
Okay.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> The $0.81 was so far your EPS number.
We expect to be down $0.05 to $0.10 from there.
Okay.
Okay.
Excellent.
And then...
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Largely as a result – I'm sorry mostly or entirely due to that incentive comps that we had a year ago.
Okay.
And as we look at merchandise margins you still expect you guys said that they should be fairly flat or closer to flat here in the second half.
Well that maybe a little more heavily weighted to fourth quarter rather than the third quarter on merch margin? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Probably yes.
Okay.
And then just looking at new store growth as we look at your lineup for new stores we don't anymore what we – I guess used to call Outpost stores.
It looks like in the calendar other than maybe Halifax in 2017.
Do you have plans – is there opportunities to look at a 60 000-ish square foot store in some markets? And kind of what are your thinkings right now on a little smaller store? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> So we've talked about this.
We absolutely think there is an opportunity for a 50 000 square foot store that we're in the design phase on and I think the learnings that we've gotten from our Outpost stores give us confidence that will work.
But that probably won't – we probably won't open one of those until late 2016 or early 2017.
Okay.
And with the most recent Outpost openings Ammon and Moncton you did – were those part of the cause of maybe metrics being a little light here in the first half? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Well first off all – and I don't want to give a lot of specificity on stores.
We don't think of Moncton as an Outpost store interestingly enough it's doing really well.
Ammon was a store that was – at least disappointing to our original model but we're going to put a lot of the learnings in there we have had in the other Outpost stores which by the way the Outpost stores from a comp perspective I wish we had more of them because they are clearly leading the way from a comp perspective.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And we'll go now to Peter Keith from Piper Jaffray.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Tommy I was wondering if you could talk about the promotional cadence that you guys have adopted now over the last year? You've given us a sense for how it looks through the end of this year but I'm wondering if this is now to the best of your visibility is sort of a new normal.
Do you think going into 2016 you'll maintain this or whereas comps get better do you think there is an opportunity to peel back? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think there are a couple of macro factors that will weigh into future decisions on promotional cadence.
First is just how is the U.S.
economy performing from a GDP standpoint.
If it's stronger that would argue that we would be – there would be less pressure.
If it weakens we and others might have to be slightly more promotional.
I think the interesting factor in all of this is in my career there isn't an example I can remember that when we got into an election a Presidential election cycle that that didn't create heightened interest in guns and ammunition that benefited both the manufacturers and the retailers because as we saw in the last uptick it certainly drives traffic.
Traffic lessens the need to be more promotional.
So those are the two big dynamics that I see but definitely the I mean the last year and year and a half it's been fairly tepid out there and you had to work a little harder to get the business.
Okay.
And maybe to contextualize it a little bit if you were to pull back do you think on promotions do you think that then it becomes a headwind to sales or are you – you would do it at a point when it's relatively neutral? Could you kind of walk us through the thought process there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well certainly one of the reasons to get significant cost out of the business is to perhaps not only allow for the leverage of expenses but potentially to create dollars that can be invested in price and promotion.
Not a one-for-one trade off because if you get cost out you certainly want to take some of it to the bottom line.
But the more cost we can get out of the business it helps to mitigate the risk that you propose.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And that's in our thought process obviously.
That's helpful feedback.
One just maintenance question for Ralph.
Could you give us the marketing fees that were passed on to Retail and Direct I missed it if they were given? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I didn't give them.
I've got the change here and not surprisingly because the one-time payment a year ago they're both down.
But in Retail they were down almost $4 million in Direct they were down $5 million.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Good luck.
And we'll go now to Patrick McKeever from MKM Partners.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Just on – you mentioned just guns and ammunition and the strengthening trend there and how that should bode well for the back half of the year as we move into the fall hunting season? So I'm just wondering within hunting is there anything that stands out on the product side that might be a nice catalyst for the fall either in apparel or elsewhere? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No...
Newness innovative product that sort of thing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We have a really – it's a probably the most innovative Duck Decoy design since the Mojo Duck years ago.
I mean the realism of this moving Decoy the wings actually flap instead of just spinning like they do in a Mojo Decoy.
This looks like a real duck flying into the decoys.
That is going to create a lot of excitement.
On the gun side not a lot of real innovation in guns this fall.
There are some things here and there but nothing that I would call breathtaking in innovation but just this heightened interest again will certainly help us.
And then within power sports which continues to be very strong are there any specific callouts there in terms of products that are doing well and what are the key products that are driving power sports and how do you expect that to trend? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We haven't seen any real abatement in the strength in both boats which have been very very strong and we continue to build our business in Wildlife &amp; Land Management.
It's still relatively small.
So it's not impacting consolidated results in a major way but we also see the spillover in high dollar marine electronics.
And as we've said in prior calls it's clearly a function of good product but very very inexpensive perhaps even free financing that is driving big ticket sales in that part of our business much like you see the car business has been really strong for a couple of years.
It's spilled over into high dollar boats at Cabela's and tractors.
Got it.
Okay.
Well.
Thank you Tommy.
I appreciate it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
And we'll go now to Jim Chartier from Monness Crespi &amp; Hardt.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
You mentioned that the promotions had subsided a little bit in third quarter to-date.
I'm not sure if I missed it but how are comps trending so far in third quarter? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> I made a comment earlier that said they were consistent with what we saw in the second quarter.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> With less margin – with less margin degradation.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then within the promotional activity was the promotional activity in second quarter related primarily to the apparel and another soft lines and how are promotions in the firearms and ammunition categories? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> No Jim.
It was across the entire complex.
It wasn't focused in any one category.
We were just a little sharper kind of everywhere.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just on thinking about the second quarter results and the reiteration of guidance the press release are those kind of offsetting maybe a slightly lower than expected results in second quarter is that how we should think about them? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well there was no savings from the cost reductions.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> No no no.
What he is saying that the ...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> The second quarter miss offset the additional expense reductions.
I can guess that's a – that is a way to think about it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Yeah.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And I know you don't want to get into the buckets of the SG&amp;A savings? But anyway to kind of quantify it for us for kind of fourth quarter what we should expect the incremental savings to be? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> I think the way we just talked about it is at least would be reflective of our expectations this year with probably a little more cost savings with that.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> The cost savings would be – the cost savings would be meaningful in 2016.
We will have some of them implemented this year.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Now we'll take a question from Kristine Koerber with Barrington Research Associates.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
A couple of questions.
First with regard to the omni-channel obviously you are pleased with the strong traffic via mobile.
How are conversion rates via mobile? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Well there – I mean they are lower.
And we talk about this a lot I mean they are clearly lower than they are on desktop but there is also more coming in the top of the funnel just because it's so easy to access on mobile than it is on desktop.
Inc.</span></strong> But are you seeing improvement in conversion via mobile? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes.
We are seeing an improvement.
Mobile to mobile we're seeing improved conversion yes.
And we're also seeing I mean all of our trend – yes we are seeing conversion improvement mobile &amp; mobile.
We're obviously seeing huge lift in traffic and pressure on consolidated conversion because of the shift to mobile which is the same reason why we're seeing the big shift the uptake in traffic.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay got it.
And then as far as ammunition the in-stock levels kind of where do you stand without already closed to being back to normal at this point? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Christine it's Tommy.
First of all welcome back.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I want to add one other comment on mobile.
In retrospect one of the better decisions that we made was to really make the big investment needed to have and optimize mobile device and that decision was made years ago with an investment of a whole lot of money and as we look at our business today with this just amazing movement to mobile devices.
I can't even imagine where we would be today if we had not made those decisions.
Secondly we believe our conversion rates on mobile are much higher than any of our competitors and we also think that the money that we've spent on digital to include mobile and SEO and all those other things have just truly widened the gap in a big way between us and any of our direct competitors.
Now to your ammo question essentially ammo has come back into stock.
Rimfire ammunition could be a little bit better but we probably always say that.
So any outages we see now are just normal run off the mill.
In fact ammo out of stocks are down 730 basis points compared to a year ago.
So that's a significant improvement.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just lastly I'm curious as far as guns and ammo category did you – looking at it regionally were there particular regions that were stronger during the quarter? Was that across the board improvement? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No it was just improvement.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's question and answers session.
I would like to hand the conference back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you all very much and we look forward to talking to you again soon.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</strong> Well I was wrong about one thing...
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference and we do thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Incorporated Third Quarter Fiscal 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions.
I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
And I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Andrew Weingardt Investor Relations Manager.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Andy and good morning everyone.
While our third quarter revenue performance was below expectations we were pleased with strong performance in several core merchandise categories and solid performance from Cabela's CLUB.
During the quarter we began the implementation of several substantial and sustainable expense management and balance sheet optimization initiatives.
The expense initiatives provide long-term SG&amp;A leverage opportunity with the balance sheet initiatives providing strong support for our share repurchase program.
First let's discuss comparable store sales.
With consolidated comp store sales down 4.2% or down 3.1% on a constant currency basis and U.S.
comp store sales down 3.3%.
Positive comp store sales in our camping powersports home and gifts firearms and ammunition categories were more than offset by softness in our fall apparel footwear and hunting categories.
We have seen continued softness in our apparel categories as our fall assortments have been met with unseasonably warm weather across most of our major markets.
To combat softness in our apparel and footwear categories we have taken a number of actions.
We've tested national brand shops in an increased number of stores.
Currently this is a test in 25 locations and the results indicate no gross margin rate loss versus our base stores greater productivity in sales per square foot and higher penetration of casual apparel sales versus the base.
We plan to increase store count in this test in 2016.
Secondly we will be testing alternate labor strategies in our apparel areas to provide better sales coverage during peak selling times.
Lastly our plan for 2016 assumes a greater focus on everyday value in the better part of our assortment.
Our new format stores continue to outperform our legacy stores in both sales and profit per square foot and we're able to post better comparable store sales than our legacy stores in the third quarter.
The U.S.
stores we opened this year have underperformed our expectations.
As a result we believe it appropriate to slow new store growth over the next two years.
I am pleased to report that we have dedicated teams addressing a number of performance and profit improvement opportunities and that we have already disclosed corporate overhead reduction initiatives and balance sheet optimization initiatives that give us confidence in our ability to achieve 225 North American retail locations while generating acceptable returns on invested capital.
With our continued expansion into new markets it is important to note that during the quarter we saw little to no impact on our comp stores from either cannibalization or competitive incursion.
For the quarter direct revenue decreased 7.9% as a result of softness in our fall apparel and footwear categories ongoing declines in direct ammunition sales as our customer ship back to making ammo purchases in our retail stores and the continued headwind from new retail square footage.
For the quarter we were particularly pleased to see continued direct channel growth in our camping category.
Our strategy behind this year's introduction of a new camping assortment has been extremely successful and gives us confidence in our ability to replicate this success across the assortment.
For the quarter merchandise margins decreased 70 basis points as compared to the same quarter a year ago.
The decrease was primarily due to a more aggressive pricing and markdown cadence and headwinds from merchandise mix with lower sales penetration in soft goods and higher sales penetration in hard goods.
Operating profit decreased by 170 basis points for the third quarter primarily as the result of an increase in certain fixed costs such as incentive compensation and new store cost as well as increased severance costs as a result of the reduction in head count here at our corporate office.
This painful yet necessary cost reduction is one of many strategic initiatives that have been identified and incorporated throughout our business.
Additional cost savings opportunities include IT process improvement indirect procurement retail labor optimization merchandise sourcing retail support functions and supply chain enhancements some of which we've already actioned.
The results of these initiatives will drive meaningful improvement across the organization and we expect to leverage SG&amp;A expenses as a percent of total revenue by 75 basis points to 150 basis points evenly spread over the next three years.
Now let's take a look at Cabela's CLUB which had another exceptional quarter and continued to build our base of extremely loyal customers.
For the quarter the average number of active accounts increased 6.6% and the average balance of credit card loans increased by 13.9% to $4.6 billion.
During the quarter we rolled out internally a new vision centered around being the world's best omni-channel retailer by creating intense loyalty for our outdoor brand through legendary products and customer service delivered by our highly engaged outfitters.
We plan to achieve this vision based upon six strategic focus areas growing top line sales growth of bottom-line profits through managing expenses innovate with new store formats invest in outfitters through expertise and diversity focus on customer satisfaction and grow the CLUB program aggressively with increased cardholder loyalty.
Additionally we rolled out our updated merchandise strategy focusing on the core components of our business.
These core merchandise initiatives include focus on hunters fishermen campers and recreational shooters and are consistent with the heritage and vision developed by our founders.
The final component of achieving our new vision was also rolled out during the quarter and is focused on the customer.
The four key pillars to this strategy include providing expertise experiences exceptional product and excellent values to each and every customer.
Now turning to earnings guidance.
With the revenue shortfall we experienced in the third quarter we have reevaluated our fourth quarter and full year expectations.
As a result we expect a high single-digit growth rate in revenue and approximately flat non-GAAP earnings per diluted share for full year 2015 as compared to full year 2014 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $2.88.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance of our Cabela's CLUB.
Thanks Tommy.
Despite growth in several key merchandise categories and strong performance from Cabela's CLUB during the quarter our revenue performance fell below expectations.
During the quarter we began the implementation of several balance sheet optimization initiatives aimed at reducing working capital and monetizing unproductive assets.
We expect these initiatives to assist in the financing of our most recently announced share repurchase plan as well as to drive meaningful improvements in generating free cash flow.
For the quarter revenue performance in our Retail and Direct segments came in below our expectations.
As a result we had negative incentive compensation expense of approximately $4.9 million as compared to negative incentive compensation expense of approximately $11.8 million in the third quarter a year ago.
For the quarter Financial Services revenue increased 13.3% to $123.6 million.
The increase in Financial Services revenue was primarily due to a 20.9% increase in interest and fee income and a 7.9% increase in interchange income.
Average active credit card accounts grew by 6.6% in the quarter to over $1.9 million.
For the quarter average credit card loans increased by 13.9% to approximately $4.6 billion.
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans increased 14 basis points from the year ago quarter and were 1.70%.
During the quarter we saw a shift in the trends in delinquencies.
Greater than 30 day delinquencies were 0.79% as compared to 0.70% a year ago and greater than 60 day delinquencies were 0.47% as compared to 0.42% a year ago and greater than 90 day delinquencies were 0.25% as compared to 0.22% a year ago.
During the quarter we increased our reserve for loan losses by $11.2 million as compared to an increase of $5.4 million in the same quarter a year ago as a result of the growth in the portfolio and the increase in delinquencies.
For the full year 2015 we now expect to increase the reserve between $15 million and $20 million.
As a reminder earlier in the quarter we completed a five-year term securitization in the amount of $400 million at Cabela's CLUB.
The securitization transaction included $240 million which accrues interest at a fixed rate of 2.25% per year $100 million which accrues interest at a floating rate equal to the one month LIBOR plus 67 basis points and three subordinated classes of notes for $60 million.
We expect to complete our next term securitization near the end of the first quarter of 2016.
We expect full year 2015 capital expenditures to be between $425 million and $475 million.
Cash flow from operations is expected to be between $275 million and $325 million for 2015.
As a reminder we executed a private placement transaction in August.
We drew $250 million in August and plan to draw $300 million in December with maturities of $100 million in five years $250 million in seven years and $200 million in 10 years.
Interest will be paid semi-annually at rates of 3.23% for the 5-year maturities between 3.70% and 3.82% for the 7-year maturities and between 4.01% and 4.11% for the 10-year maturities.
In addition to use for general corporate purposes we expect to use these notes in the repayment of unsecured notes for $215 million at 5.99% interest due on February 27 2016.
Now let's turn to inventory.
Inventory increased by 14% or $131 million year-over-year to approximately $1.1 billion.
We see improvement in inventory turns as a meaningful driver to balance sheet optimization going forward.
Before turning the call over to Tommy let me remind you of a few details pertaining to our 2015 expectations.
As part of the 2 million share repurchase program announced in April of 2015 we repurchased the remaining 1 million shares of common stock in open market transactions in the third quarter.
Additionally in September we announced the approval of an additional $500 million share repurchase program for our board of directors.
Through the end of the third quarter we repurchased approximately 170 000 shares or $8 million as part of the $500 million share repurchase plan.
Recall 2015 is a 53-week year.
This extra week will be recognized in the fourth quarter and we expect it to add $60 million to $70 million of merchandise revenue.
Financial Services revenue is not impacted as this is reported on a true calendar year basis.
Additionally we expect a $4 million insurance settlement in the fourth quarter of this year.
This settlement will offset operating expenses incurred throughout 2015.
As mentioned we've reevaluated our fourth quarter expectations.
As a result we expect a high single-digit growth rate in revenue and approximately flat non-GAAP earnings per diluted share for full year 2015 as compared to full year 2014 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $2.88.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Ralph.
While our third quarter revenue performance was softer than we had anticipated we are working diligently to implement initiatives across the organization that would generate improved performance in both revenues and profitability.
Before turning it over for questions I want to sincerely thank our outfitters for their continued commitment and passion in cherishing and delighting our customers every day throughout this time of change and restructuring.
You are truly the heart and soul of our organization.
With that Operator let's open the call for questions.
Thank you.
We'll go to Seth Sigman with Credit Suisse.
Thank you.
So a couple of questions here.
First as you look at the comp weakness in the third quarter just trying to understand what would actually happen there and how to be thinking about it for the fourth quarter.
A lot of talk about weather maybe you could give us a sense of how comps looked in each of the months and how business flow throughout the quarter as that seems to be the implication and then any early commentary on Q4 would be helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll be glad to Seth.
When we were on the call in late July we commented that comps had been consistent from the second quarter to the third quarter which meant that they were positive and we were pretty pleased with how the business was going.
July in fact finished that way.
So we had a good July and we're on trend.
And when we got into August and rolled our four sets to fall merchandise there was a pretty dramatic change in trend in those category so fall apparel and footwear and hunting products yet the spring goods and -- continued to perform really well throughout the third quarter.
So powersports home and gifts camping and our outdoor categories firearms and ammunition just kept on comping positively.
And we just felt like the consumer just in the months of August and September did not pivot to fall merchandise and it certainly felt like weather was a hell of a headwind.
In discussions with our major vendors we don't believe we are alone but what other people do is – is what other people do and we've got to make our company better but it was definitely a headwind.
It's difficult to give you specific commentary on August and September individually because the Labor Day shift into September really distorted the two months.
So we kind of look at them as two months as one month and it was really really tough in the fall merchandise categories and continue to be good in non-fall merchandise categories.
Those trends through a couple of weeks in the month of October have continued and are a reflective in our guidance change.
Okay.
And then a question on the 2015 store underperformance that you alluded to can you just elaborate on what you're seeing in those stores? Why are they underperforming? Is it something competitive? Are there specific categories within those stores that are underperforming more than others? And then how do you think about opening stores in 2016 based on that? I guess what gives you confidence? Well first of all we've seen – there's no one answer there's a lot of factors if there is one common theme it's probably that drive times aren't what we planned on in our original business case we've seen that drop off to some extent.
And first of all they're not all underperforming there's various degrees of where each of the stores sit.
For example certainly from a top line perspective our Canadian stores are performing really well but the drive time has shrunken a little bit relative to our expectations and we'll go ahead and continue to make adjustments going forward into 2016.
What we did in 2016 is we tried – we had two factors going on as we started thinking about cutting out stores I mean we tried to – obviously some of the stores that opened early in the years were still far along it was hard to make a change.
But then we try to eliminate those stores that we thought had the greatest risk of success.
So we went from 11 to 7 we think we've got – we de-risked those to some extent and we'll look forward to some of the improvements Tommy talked about with respect to how we have the stores aligned when we roll for our merchandise.
Those are some improvements we're going to make as we go into 2016.
I mean I guess the follow up question there would be the seven stores that you are committed to opening next year I mean what are characteristics of those stores that are different than the stores you opened in 2015 that are underperforming? I would tell you...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> They tend to be smaller.
I think that's the more common theme.
Well I think they're smaller and I don't want to go into lot of details because we haven't communicated all the communities and all the developers when we're going to open – what stores we're going to open in 2016.
But I would tell you the theme they're smaller markets and they're markets we think we have a greater likelihood of success.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
So on the new store topic I'm just curious how you think this impacts I know you're not giving 2016 guidance.
But do you have any sense right now on how this could impact CapEx over the next few years? Well obviously it's going to go down.
We haven't – we've not rolled up our CapEx budget for 2016 yet but obviously it will be significantly less than it was in 2015.
I'm not – I can't give you specific range yet Matt.
Okay.
And then in terms of your comment about the drive times I'm just wondering if you can give us any data about the legacy stores the old stores.
I mean it would seem like they also have been kind of slipping a little bit over time.
Just wondering if you think that those are also becoming less productive and maybe there is some structural things that need to be worked out with that class? I mean – I don't think so.
I mean the stores we've opened in our next generation stores are comping better than the legacy stores.
But we don't – I wouldn't say to the point that we think it's a problem.
The deviation is not that great.
Now there is no question some of those superstores I mean have been impacted by others of our stores in the area one of which is Hamburg has been impacted by our store in Christiana Delaware we'd planned on that.
But we haven't seen the drive time of the old stores come in – into such an extent that it's concerned us.
Okay.
And then just one more for me and I'll let somebody else jump in.
But can you just comment on the performance that you saw in markets that I would think would be a little less impacted by weather so your stores in Texas Louisiana South Carolina Georgia I realize there's still a fall season but I'm thinking maybe the temperature deviation is a little lower in those markets? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Matt what we – what we did see during the quarter particularly in the month of September where in markets around the country from east to west and north to south it did get cold for a few days before immediately warming up and it was quite amazing to watch the customer reaction to fall merchandise when it got cold.
It just didn't last as soon as it got warmer.
Okay makes sense.
Hey Matt.
Your question about geographic dispersion I don't know that I see a trend as I look across the stores.
I mean some of our Texas stores some of them are comping positive and some aren't.
So I don't – specifically as it relates to Texas our stores – some of our southern stores are comping positive I guess that could go to the weather issue but there are some in the south that are also comping negative so...
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thanks guys.
We'll go to Peter Keith with Piper Jaffray.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
This is actually Jon on for Peter this morning.
Thanks for taking our questions.
Maybe just first to take Matt's question a little bit further I guess on geography can you comment at all on kind of how your oil markets did in the quarter? And then also have you seen a widening of that performance gap versus maybe some of your non-oil impacted stores? We don't have a lot of exposure in the oil patch.
No we're not in Houston and we're not in North Dakota we're not in Wyoming it kind of depends on your definition of oil patch.
Our Colorado stores are comping nicely.
Actually we have a store in Louisiana that's comping nicely.
So it's hard to identify depending upon your definition of oil it's hard to say that oil is driving it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I would say there was a bigger impact in our Northern tier Canadian border U.S.
stores that we've commented on for a couple of quarters as the currency flipped in Canada a lot of those stories in Washington in northern Montana in South Dakota all the way to Buffalo New York and probably even some stores in Michigan.
They have gotten more pressured because the Canadian traffic is not coming across the border because of the weakness of the currency.
That's been more impactful than the oil patch.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And then I guess for my follow-on question.
It looks like your balance per active account was roughly 9% in the quarter which it looks like it took a pretty big step-up and actually was the strongest growth I think if I am looking at our model rate since 2007.
Does that have something to do with new stores coming out of the gate a little bit more slowly or is there maybe a little bit more extension of credit to customers and just how far do you see those balances kind of climbing over time? Well the trend we've seen over time with respect to balances let me – I think your number's a little high.
I was trying to – what I've got in my script is that average accounts were up – accounts were up 6.6% total receivables were up 39%.
So that would seem to give a growth rate of 7% or 8% instead of 9%.
But what we're seeing there is we're just seeing people way more likely to revolve on credit which is driving that business nicely and generally we're seeing that across to all FICO scores.
We did as we mentioned see an uptick in delinquencies this quarter some of that maybe related to more people wanting credit.
But the biggest thing is we're just seeing more and more people revolve and it's not necessarily store specific although our new stores are performing nicely from a card perspective.
Okay.
And then I guess just quickly lastly on the provision I know you gave some commentary around that.
You thought it was going to I think be $15 million or $20 million higher for the year I believe.
As you start to look into next year at a high level I mean would you continue to expect that provision to climb much higher? Well let me give you some cowboy math on the provision and which I think will be helpful in trying to figure out how to model that.
A year ago our allowance for loan losses was $52 million in the third quarter a year ago.
And the reason it went up as much as it did is basically you – it goes up in-line with portfolio growth which as I said earlier it was about 13%.
And then it went up again to the extent delinquencies went up.
And I know I'm taking percentage as a percentage here but if you take – I think the 30-day delinquencies that went from 0.7% a year ago to 0.79%.
Although that doesn't seem like a big increase it's still a 12% or 13% increase.
So if you take – start at $52 million take a 12% increase for the growth of portfolio and then another 12% or 13% for growth of delinquencies that's cowboy math how you get to an allowance today of $65 million.
So as you look forward to next year you would expect – it really – you absolutely would expect it to go up as it relates to card growth assuming delinquencies are constant and to the extent delinquencies change and I don't know if they will increase or decrease to the extent they increase or go up more than that.
What we've seen historically and I know there's – and I'm just defining historically as the last four or five years we've actually seen the portfolio growth be more than offset by declines in delinquencies and that's just starting to flip the other way a little bit.
We don't expect them to go up significantly; however you define significantly but as I've predicted for years a little bit like I see someday interest rates are going to go up but as I've said for years there will be an increase in delinquencies and I think we're starting to see it.
I went back and looked we've rarely had delinquencies be above 1% and we've rarely had charge-offs be above 2.5%.
So I think we'll see some slight increase in delinquencies and charge-offs over the next couple of years.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Really appreciate the commentary and good luck in the fourth quarter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
We'll go to Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Tommy could you discuss the performance of some of the national brands in footwear and apparel let's say North Face Under Armour Columbia compared to the performance of the Cabela's branded product? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Dan we saw a consistent pressure across the soft goods and camo clothing complex same thing in footwear although footwear was down less than the apparel categories.
But we didn't see a meaningful difference.
In fact penetration of Cabela's branded product was actually up a 100 basis points in the quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So you weren't – Cabela's wasn't losing share to North Face and Under Armour all of the brands dropped apparently I guess for the same reasons.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Correct.
Inc.</span></strong> The second question following up on new store productivity in the previous conference call at the end of July I think that you guys thought this was maybe more some transitory issues.
There was no reason to dial back meaningfully on the store expansion.
Now with seven openings in 2016 I guess that's what the original thought was about 14 if you go back to the investor meeting back in March.
So I'm assuming about four of the stores that were cut out were Outpost right? Could you maybe talk about the...
Well first of all I don't want to talk a lot about specific stores to my comments earlier because in some cases we haven't notified anybody but they were not – no they were not necessarily Outpost stores.
We didn't have very many of those – I don't think we had any planned for next year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No none planned for next year.
Inc.</span></strong> So you told us earlier the type of stores that you would open.
I guess smaller markets perhaps less competition.
But maybe you could discuss the type of real estate that Cabela's is reconsidering.
And then attempting to triangulate that with the goal of still 200 potential stores in the U.S.
It would just seem like that that number has to be less now.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I don't think so Dan.
I hope investors will sense that our actions to slow for the next two years are prudent given the performance that we've seen in these 2015 classes of stores.
We have a large number of actions in place as I mentioned in my formal comments that are looking at construction cost within the store customer experience within the store allocation of space within the box.
We've had a lot of success with these branded shops and how do they fit into the future strategy and I think what we view this as – it's as a pause to really make sure we understand why are the drive times tighter what we can do to mitigate that and really build a plan.
Because to continue building 14 stores a year with the data that we have until we get closer to actions which I believe we will do we think is the prudent thing to do.
So lots of work is going on inside the company which still – we're still confident based on those actions that we can build out over time to 225 stores but the pause to have a model that is far more predictable is really important.
Inc.</span></strong> Just the – my last question for now.
In your prepared comments you noted that competition was not a factor in the sales weakness.
I was curious as to why you're confident in that I mean one would think that if drive times are shortening during a cycle of declining gasoline prices that competition could very easily explain the weakness in sales trends? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well to accept the competition argument somebody would have to explain to me why we performed so well in so many important categories.
Because if competition is going to get us they're going to get us across the franchise.
They didn't get us in camping didn't get us in home and gifts didn't get us in powersports did not affect us in ammunition and certainly didn't affect us in firearms.
And yet where we did see the weakness you can just take it to the item level which I'll do for you.
We are priced very competitively in flannel shirts at $29.99.
It's 90 degrees most of the country in September.
It certainly felt like us – and especially my own store walks at our competitors my eyes told me we weren't competitively disadvantaged using that one example and I could give you 100.
So to me that gives me comfort that there – if a competitor was getting us they'd be getting us across the franchise and they're not.
Where we were soft is in fall categories where we had an exceptionally warm August and September if that helps.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
It does.
Thank you very much and good luck during the fourth quarter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
We'll go to Stephen Tanal with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
I was hoping to just to be clear on the drive time issue for the new stores.
Can you explain that a little more? I'm just trying to understand exactly what you mean by that.
Well the way we measure it is how far from the store do you have to go to get two-thirds of your revenue.
And when we do a new store we look at how much – usually we looked at 30 60 and 90 mile concentric circles and have a model for how much of the sales we expect to get from each of those concentric circles.
And we're not – what we're seeing is that the average well distance is generally around that 50 minutes around the store where we get two-thirds of our business.
And outside of that we're not seeing the sales.
In some cases that is a factor that we're not seeing the sales that we expected to see.
Got it.
Okay.
By the way that's not universally true across all stores but that is a – I listed that as a common factor.
Sure.
And that makes sense.
And then can you talk about traffic tickets for us in the quarter please? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We don't measure traffic.
We measure transactions.
Sure.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> They were down 8% and ticket was up nearly 4% 3.8% to be exact.
And that's U.S.
only yeah? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's correct.
That is U.S.
only.
And just lastly to clarify the $4 million insurance settlement in 4Q is that in the EPS guidance? It is.
Okay.
Thank you.
And by the way Steve just to be clear on that that's to offset some items that we expensed in the P&amp;L during the first nine months of the year.
Got it.
Understood.
So for the full year it's a neutral.
Perfect.
We'll go to Rick Nelson with Stephens.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Sounds like performance – store performance varies quite a bit from location to location.
Are all of the stores profitable at the store level? All of our stores are profitable at the store level yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And the buyback program is that predicated on reducing working capital and selling these unproductive assets or would you do the buybacks in advance? Well first of all I'm not going to talk about the timing necessarily of when we're going to buy back stock.
I would not say a pre-requisite for buying the stock back is to execute on some of those balance sheet initiatives.
At least in my head how we got to the $500 million number in the first place was we feel comfortable going up one turn of leverage.
Now I've got an internal – a personal goal if you will to try to make that much less than going up one turn of leverage which is why we're working on a lot of the balance sheet things that we've been talking about.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
And those unproductive assets...
I am sorry let me add one more thing to that though Rick.
We do have – and this will affect the timing too but we do have covenants that limit how much you can buy in a particular calendar year that we have to manage as we think about that too.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
And what exactly are these assets that you're looking to divest? Well there is a lot.
But I'll give you a kind of three broad brushes of assets one of which is inventory.
Second is as you know we've got about $80 million of economic development bonds on our balance sheet that we're looking at that.
And then we've probably got – you can almost put them in – I think about them in $300 million or – three $75 million to $100 million kind of range numbers.
Inventory being one economic development bonds being another and then lastly is just real estate the biggest of which is we've got a letter of intent to close on some real estate that we acquired some time ago in Denver that we expect to close in the second quarter.
The real estate one is probably the smallest of the three and will take the longest amount of time to execute just given the nature of real estate markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Rick the real estate is non-store related.
It outparcels – the property in Denver that Ralph mentioned we don't plan to sell a store.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
And no consideration of selling receivables at all? Well if you are looking at – thinking about outsourcing the bank the answer to that would be no.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay okay.
Thanks a lot and good luck.
We'll go to Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Quick question guys on the asset sales you just talked about.
So in each bucket Ralph you put a $75 million to $100 million range around each of them? Yeah.
I mean as a general rule yes.
Although the real estate would be – the real estate number could be below that.
Okay.
Now...
You can stretch to get real estate to be within $75 million to $100 million.
Okay.
And as you look at slowing down the pace of growth here any risk of – excuse me lease cancellation charges or charges related to commitments you've made to open stores at a particular time? There could be a small amount of that I mean some of the stores we've looked at may have some capitalized design cost so that kind of thing we'd have to look at.
In a couple of cases we've acquired real estate which would by the way go in the bucket of real estate we're looking at selling and whom – I don't know what we'll sell that for we will see.
Okay.
So I guess the answer to your question is – the answer is probably yes.
I would not expect it to be that meaningful of a number.
Now Tommy when you look at a couple of things going on with store sales you've got the seasonal factors around footwear and apparel but you also were disappointed with the sales performance of the new stores this year what specifically can you identify with these new stores that you could fix going forward now that they're open? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well thanks for asking that because we're doing a lot as you heard in my comments we have an overall initiative as a company that we're going to focus on in the next three years on the core which is both in presentation and product and expertise and everything we do.
We are going to deepen our focus on four critical areas the hunter the angler the camper and the recreational sports shooter.
So you're likely to see a lot more focus from our organization to include the stores on those categories and we think that can have a benefit.
We're also testing some alternate labor models that would give us expertise and consistent coverage on our apparel pads going forward and it stands to reason that if somebody's there selling we have a higher likelihood of actually selling something.
And then we talked at Analyst Day about a concept of exploding the middle which was really making sure that our value proposition our price value proposition in the better part of a good better best assortment was going to deepen dramatically.
And we are doing that as we speak.
We have some implications of that in our fall assortments.
Despite the warm weather and expect to expand that as we go to next year.
The last option is we want to – we are working on end-to-end product flow to include lessening the amount of task work that our retail outfitters have to do every day.
So they can spend more time selling and less time doing task which is really what they love to do.
So a lot's going on that will – if we're successful could help the new stores we've opened this year plus every other store we have in the assortment.
As you heard me say from our branded shop performance that has been very very encouraging and we're going to expand that dramatically next year in the spring.
And should I infer that the branded shops are going to have a sales person staffing them for most opening hours? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I wouldn't go that far because we're still testing those ideas.
But certainly we'd like to – in an ideal world we'd like to have far more coverage during peak selling times in critical parts of the store.
And that's at the reel bar in the fishing department all the way to footwear to the camo pad and to casual apparel and we're working on a whole bunch of things.
We are not just sitting on our hands hoping things get better.
And finally looking back to those economic development bonds Ralph do you expect those to be marketable at their carrying value on the balance sheet? Yes.
Thank you very much.
I will also tell you we're in the early process of that because our ex – nothing has led me to believe that they have a value other than that.
All right.
Thank you.
We'll go to Patrick McKeever with MKM Partners.
Thanks.
So just on the fourth quarter implied earnings guidance I guess a $1.23 if you're saying $2.88 for the year.
I was just wondering if you could give us a little guidance on margins I mean you'd talked about previously kind of a flattish merchandise margin in the back half of the year with some vendor support factoring into that now – I mean obviously it would seem that you'll be taking some more aggressive markdowns than planned or have already taken those for the fourth quarter to clear some of the fall apparel and footwear but just wondering if you could provide some color or guidance around the margin profile for the fourth quarter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll even go broader than that and just kind of underscore the five things that drove our guidance assumptions for the balance – for the full year and implied for the quarter.
Those five things are we are not assuming any change from the third quarter comp trends.
We are assuming that the margin rate trends from this year will continue into the fourth quarter.
We are assuming about a 100 basis points of expense leverage implied as the extra week that we get this year and we are not assuming a material change in mix.
So I hope that's helpful.
And by the way another thing that's on that.
Considered in the guidance there is another pretty meaningful increase in allowance for loan loss in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
Okay.
Got it.
And then just I mean it sounds like from all the different comments about the weather it sounds like the basic cadence of – those other areas that comp positively camping and motor sports and firearms and ammunition.
I mean it sounds like that basic trend didn't change that much in the third quarter overall? It didn't.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> ...which gives me the comfort I expressed earlier that it's hard to make – for me to make an argument that competition got to us because we didn't see a material changes in those categories where we really saw the hit was when we rolled to fall merchandise we just didn't see the customer shift at all all the way through the quarter.
Okay.
Okay got it.
Thanks Tommy.
We'll go to Jim Duffy with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> So guys I understand and appreciate the attention to capital allocation and the need for expense management is a – pardon me as I'm sure you appreciate SG&amp;A leverage may not materialize however unless you'd stabilize the store productivity.
So Tommy can you talk a little bit about where you are with respect to testing the plans to improve store productivity? Are you confident you can deliver it without compromising the merchandise margins? Just doesn't feel like there's a lot to hang our head on with respect to stabilization of the comps or even improvement in the comps? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Jim we have half the categories we sort of don't have a problem in at this point which is powersports home and gifts camping outdoors fishing was only down very slightly and firearms was positive and ammunition was positive.
So the efforts to focus on the fix are really focused in apparels and to my point we saw really encouraging results from the branded shops and we'll expand that in some form to all stores in the spring.
And that's kind of a big deal.
The labor test we're not deep enough to have a lot of confidence because the data points are small.
But they are really encouraging as well and it's hard for me believe that the deepening of value in the better part of our assortment can't have a real benefit.
For competitive reasons I'm reluctant to go into all the various effects of deepening our focus in our stores to our four primary categories and customers.
But we have a level of optimism there that that can have an effect and we're not going to test forever we're moving pretty rapidly on these things and I really look forward to updating everyone as we get into next year on what they're driving.
And all that being said gosh if we got a little burst of cold weather it would sure help a lot.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> That makes sense.
And just thinking about the strategy to emphasize price value equation what type of increase in transactions would you need to offset what would seemingly be a compromise in ticket? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't know I'd have to look at that because that'll happen more over – probably happen more over time with customers only shopping as two or three times a year.
We could see more of an impact yeah that – it would take the change in ticket and transactions could spread over – more over time.
But we're going to do everything we can do to drive more sales especially in the apparel side of the business through the initiatives that I talked to you about.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then last question can you update us on thoughts on catalog distribution and catalog expense? Have you tested opportunities to manage that down? Is that an opportunity for expense relief in the P&amp;L? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think as you know over several years we have been refining our catalog strategy to mean fewer catalogs mailed more targeted to actually what the customer buys from us.
The catalogs have been smaller hence the irrelevant merchandise that was at the – in the last 10 pages of a lot of our catalogs five years ago and then the movement to some selective magalogs that have performed very well.
The net effect of that has been that we're spending less on catalogs today than we have in the past almost year-over-year.
But have used some of that money most of that money in our digital social media campaigns e-mail campaigns so it hasn't been a net reduction.
But certainly something we look at on an ongoing basis.
Hey Jim I think the short answer is we're looking at expense reductions is that that we're looking across the entire organization nothing's off the table.
I'm interested and we continue to get great ideas and processes that come out of woodwork.
One of them as it – specifically as it relates to catalogs that we're dealing with now is looking at print and paper prices.
We do think there is a definite opportunity there.
There may also be an opportunity as it relates to circ but across the organization we're continuing to find a lot of meaningful opportunities that we're realizing some of which we are going to realize in the fourth quarter most of which will be next year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Very good.
Good luck to you guys in the fourth quarter.
Thanks.
Go to Mark Smith with Feltl &amp; Co.
Hi guys.
A handful of hopefully quick ones.
First looking at inventory in apparel and footwear how much of this needs to be cleared out if you get some cold weather here in late October-November? Would that clean up the impact and if we do get a big El Niño impact with warm weather how bad it could it be? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Mark first of all the quality of our inventories are good and I think Ralph and I are confident that we have action plans in place over the next several months to clear goods.
It's interesting I'm kind of a weather nerd and I look at the projected El Niño effects and some could be helpful; some might not be.
They're calling for slightly warmer weather in the northern tier states but much colder and wetter from Texas all the way through the Mid-Atlantic and we have a lot of stores in Texas through the Mid-Atlantic and the Northeast that if it gets cold and rainy or cold and snowy that's really great for our business.
So I would say it's kind of a mixed bag but a little bit of colder weather would really help us in the next four or five months clear inventory.
And as Ralph mentioned we have a number of other strategies to help us work through whatever inventory we have in soft goods.
Okay.
You were asked about oil markets that are maybe dependent.
Can you talk about markets and stores in big ag markets and if that's hurting you? Well a lot of our stores are in ag markets but I'm not you know again you don't see a constant theme.
I can pull out ag stores that are doing well and those that aren't.
Okay.
Can you guys quantify maybe a gun comp or guns and ammo how that looked during the quarter; can you quantify that? Without going into a lot of specificity both guns and ammo comp positive.
Okay.
And looking at powersports I believe that you guys put the newer tractor business in that is that correct? That's correct yes.
Excluding tractors are you still seeing positive comps there? Yeah.
Yes we are still seeing positive comps in powersports even outside of tractors.
Okay.
And I think my last question here.
You guys have given the kind of 2014 class of stores sales per square foot and four wall EBITDA margins.
Can you give us a sneak peek at maybe the delta to the 2015 class of stores on a sales per square foot or EBITDA margins? How big of a difference are we looking at between those two? Well I'm just not prepared to give – until those stores have been open for a year I'm just not prepared to give a number.
Because you don't know how they are seasonal relative to other stores for sure you want to get a full year under your belt before you start talking about the 2015 stores.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Like we don't have fall under our belt which is really important for us in the 2015 class of stores which could change the numbers up or down.
Okay.
Maybe I'll sneak in one last one then.
Growth in receivables you've been growing that at 12% 13% plus here.
As you slow the growth in store expansion do you expect that to slow as well? Well I think we've – I've spent a lot of time I think helping people through the correlation between square footage growth and receivables growth.
And there's no question they're correlated but as you know most of the growth in those receivables is going to be driven by stores we opened in 2013 2014 and 2015.
So I think the answer is that receivable growth probably peaks in 2016 just because you'll have the full year impact of all the stores we opened this year plus the 7 stores we open next year it probably peaks in 2016 or 2017 and then decelerates from there but we still think there is a long – even with fewer stores there is a long long tail on receivable growth.
Okay.
Excellent.
Thank you.
We'll go to David Magee with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Yeah.
Hi everybody.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
I was just still a little confused about the weather impact.
I sort of heard conflicting comments a bit.
If you had to put a number on the impact and we won't hold you to it but if we had to sort of put a number in terms of the impact of weather on that 3% down U.S.
comp would it be 2 points 3 points would you be willing to say? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's significant put it that way.
Okay.
Were those numbers significant? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Because it really – it's apparel it's hunting apparel it's men's and women's apparel hunting apparel and then we also saw a couple of hunting related areas like archery and optics that were also stressed because it makes sense if the customer is not coming in because it's 90 degrees outside he might not be buying a new scope.
But it was a significant impact.
And just to clarify to the extent it has been colder in the past couple of weeks in various places have you seen – you have been happy with the uptick in the volume? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well where we – it's been so isolated that as we saw in September where it did get cold there was a bump but it was not meaningful enough across 70-some stores across the geography of the United States to be a needle mover.
But for the stores that were impacted it was impactful? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's been helpful.
You bet.
Ralph could you remind us what the current value is of the real estate overall that you guys owned? Yeah let me look.
I can tell you what the book value is.
Give me a second to look it up...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey David while Ralph's looking I just want to be clear on real estate as part of our balance sheet optimization we don't have any plans to permanently close stores but I wouldn't rule out an option that we could relocate a store or two in the next three years and that's just normal course of business.
I just want to make the point we're not – we don't see a need to shut down any stores.
Sure.
I don't have just the real estate piece of it the total fixed asset is $1.8 billion that's all fixed assets it strikes me.
I've always thought $1 billion was sort of a round number for the real estate part? That feels a little high to me but I think it's about half of that.
So call it – I don't know $800 million something like that.
Okay.
$800 million as a book value? Again I'll have to check it's just – call me offline we break that out in the K and I'd have to go back and look at it it's just not in the Q.
Okay.
And then just last question with regard to the vendor shop test over time would you see that vendor is participating in the investments of those shops? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I'd probably prefer not to go to what our arrangements are with our vendors but obviously they've seen the results and are pretty pleased and they've been supportive of our actions.
As they have for a long period of time and I'd probably leave it at that.
Okay.
Great.
Good luck.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
We'll go to Kristine Koerber with Barrington Research.
Inc.</span></strong> Hello.
Couple of questions.
First with a follow-up on the inventory question I mean where – how should we think about inventory year-end I mean you ended the quarter up 14% it sounds like inventory has been in a decent position as far as being clean.
What do you expect at year end? Well I don't know that we've got the number in front of me but we – last year we had $760 million of inventory and we've been running I don't know 10% or 15% above that.
So I don't know wherever that puts at $800 million $850 million something like that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
We're in the process right now of looking at working through some of that inventory but it's going to take time we're certainly not going to have a fire sale in the fourth quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's what I was getting to.
So this is – we're talking a couple of quarters to really get through the inventory assuming everything plays out the way you're expecting it to especially as far as weather.
I might even tell you through the end of – I mean a lot of this is good merchandise some of which – some of the hunting apparel we might hold over 'til fall of 2015 or fall of 2016.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Because they are ongoing programs that aren't going to go away.
I mean the beauty of our business Kristine as you know is a blaze orange hunting vest it doesn't have a lot of fashion risk with it.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then as far as store growth is it safe to assume that you'll resume your store growth plans kind of that million – 1 million square of footage in 2018? We're not prepared to comment on 2018.
I mean I at least view one of my major responsibilities is to make sure that we're good stewards of our shareholders capital and we will deploy when we think we can give returns that are attractive.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then if I think about the guidance it sounds like a lot of assumptions went into the guidance.
I mean what would be the biggest risk for you not to hit the flat EPS or even high single-digit revenue number? Well I think the biggest risk is I mean basically from a margin and sales standpoint we assume that trends we saw in the third quarter continue to go in the fourth and probably the biggest the risk around that is probably obviously the merchandise – the risk or opportunity is in the merchandise sales line.
To the extent as we get closer to the holiday season if we see comps improve meaningfully from that there could be upside.
Conversely and although it seems hard to think that would be much worse than that but if they're worse than that that'd be the biggest risk.
The other place with a lot of volatility is around our card business.
The only thing there that seems like it could be a risk is if for some reason our allowance for bad debts was higher than what we forecasted on the provision and the balance sheet side because the charge-offs quite frankly don't vary enough over that shorter period of time to make much of a difference.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That business is pretty predictable 30 days or 60 days out.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And that's helpful.
Thank you.
In the interest of time our last question will come from Lee Giardano with Sterne Agee CRT.
Thanks.
Just a quick one guys.
On the branded shop-in-shops will that translate into reduced Cabela's branded product penetration and increase brands in those stores? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
Not necessarily.
It may in some stores but not in others.
In some stores we may increase assortment in branded product and less on assortment in Cab branded product but in other stores it simply going to be where we place Cab brand on the pad versus where we place the branded shop.
And as I commented in the shops that we have tested if you're concerned about margin rate there has been no rate degradation in the test.
And in fact we've gotten the higher productivity in sales per foot versus the base stores.
So if that's helpful...
Yeah.
That's helpful.
And just one more follow-up.
We've seen very strong card growth over the past couple of years here.
Would you anticipate lower growth in cards with lower square footage growth in the coming years? Well I think I already addressed that question which is given that – given the tray given where we are in store count what will drive card growth is the stores we've opened in 2012 to 2015 timeframe.
So I could actually see it accelerating a little bit next year and then decelerating over time just as those stores mature but it will decelerate at a very slow rate.
Great.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the conference back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> We just like to thank everyone for joining us and we'll talk to you soon.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate you being on the call.
Thank you.
You may disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Full Fiscal 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions.
I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Andrew Weingardt Investor Relations Manager.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Scott Williams Cabela's President.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Andy and good morning everyone.
I would like to begin by reminding everyone that we issued a press release in December announcing that our board had initiated a process to explore strategic alternatives.
That process has continued and is ongoing.
I hope you can appreciate that we will have no further comments related to the review unless further disclosure is appropriate or required.
The purpose of today's call is to discuss our fourth quarter performance and we ask that you keep your questions focused on the results.
I thank you all in advance for your understanding.
Ralph and I are pleased to have Scott Williams join us on the call today.
As you know Scott was promoted to President last week.
This move brings alignment under one leader for all of our customer-facing strategies.
Scott has made a tremendous contribution to Cabela's over the past five years and provides insight and expertise that will drive many future successes.
Moving on to results we were pleased with our fourth quarter performance.
Our omni-channel strategy combined with our aggressive expense reduction strategies allowed us to exceed external revenue and profit objectives.
As previously mentioned during the third quarter we rolled out our new Vision 2020 strategy focused on being the world's best omni-channel retailer by creating intense loyalty for our outdoor brand through legendary products and customer service delivered by our highly engaged outfitters.
We see the potential to continue expanding market share in the outdoor market while growing organically through customer loyalty and by providing rich customer experiences in every channel.
As a part of our new vision we deepened our focus in two strategic areas: focus on the core and our foremost advantage.
Focus on the core will concentrate investment and resources on hunting fishing camping and recreational shooting.
These categories are areas where customers most identify with Cabela's and where customers demand the most from us in product selection availability and expertise.
Foremost advantage is based on our heritage as the world's foremost outfitter.
Cabela's foremost advantage aligns business strategies to a framework developed with 50-plus years of deep customer insights.
This framework will drive revenue and shareholder returns by focusing on our customers and is defined by four areas: experience expertise excellent value and exceptional products.
For the quarter this deepened focus helped to overcome a challenging environment and drove merchandise revenue growth.
Throughout the quarter we saw softness in our apparel categories as our fall and winter assortments were met with unseasonably warm weather across most of our major markets.
However we were particularly pleased with the improvement we saw in the performance of these categories when winter weather impacted most of the nation early in the first quarter of 2016.
Our new format stores continue to outperform our legacy stores in both sales and profit per square foot and we're able to post better comparable store sales than our legacy stores in the fourth quarter.
For the quarter consolidated comparable store sales were down 4.9% and U.S.
comparable store sales were down 3.5% both on a 14-week versus 14-week basis.
Positive comparable store sales in our firearms shooting ammunition and home and gifts categories were more than offset by softness in other categories including apparel archery and general outdoors.
For the quarter direct revenue increased 0.5% including the 53rd week and was down 4.3% excluding the 53rd week.
Fourth quarter direct revenue growth in our home and gifts powersports shooting camping and archery categories more than offset softness in apparel and hunting equipment categories.
In the fourth quarter while still in the relatively early stages of our expense management initiatives we drove SD&amp;A expense leverage of 130 basis points.
This leverage was attributable to the reduction of cost throughout the organization.
As previously discussed we have identified cost savings opportunities that include IT process improvement indirect procurement retail labor optimization merchandise sourcing retail support functions supply chain enhancements and new store building cost reductions some of which we have already actioned.
The results of these initiatives are expected to drive meaningful improvement across the organization and we continue to expect SD&amp;A leverage as a percent of total revenue over the next three years by up to 150 basis points.
As we've previously expressed we've been disappointed with the revenue and profit performance of the stores that we opened in 2015.
As a result earlier in 2015 we organized teams to evaluate new ways to reduce both our store operating cost and capital expenditures.
During the fourth quarter we began to see the results of our operating cost initiatives and have reviewed progress towards significant future cost savings in stores to be built later this year and in 2017.
Therefore we believe that opening new stores will provide our shareholders with an attractive return on capital even with continued modest revenue performance.
Just as we did when we rolled out our next generation stores we will test our store rollout strategy and implement learnings in future stores as we proceed.
As such we expect to build eight stores in 2016 and six stores in 2017.
We have identified and announced all of the 2016 openings and we have identified three of the six stores to be opened in 2017.
We will be working over the next two quarters to finalize the remaining locations for 2017.
Additionally we remain committed to expanding our retail footprint in North America to 200 stores to 225 stores.
With our continued expansion into new markets it is important to note that during the quarter we saw a little impact on our comp stores from either cannibalization or competitive incursion.
Now let's take a look at Cabela's CLUB which had another exceptional quarter and continue to build our base of extremely loyal customers.
For the quarter the average number of active accounts increased 6.6% and the average balance of credit card loans increased by 14.4% to $4.8 billion.
In conjunction with the implementation of our new vision during the third quarter we have identified six strategic areas to support our new initiatives and drive future growth.
These six focus areas are: improving top-line sales increasing profitability retail store expansion and innovation focus on putting the customers' needs ahead of all else diversity within our organization and the continued growth of our world-class loyalty program at Cabela's CLUB.
The development and implementation of this vision is a commitment to the core of our business and to the culture established by our founders: Dick Mary and Jim Cabela.
We are committed to connecting our customers with the core of their outdoor pursuits while providing unforgettable customer experiences.
Now turning to earnings guidance.
We've been highly encouraged by the results realized from both our revenue and expense initiatives implemented in 2015.
As a result for full year 2016 we expect a high single-digit growth rate in revenue and a high single-digit or low double-digit growth rate in earnings per diluted share as compared to full year 2015 adjusted earnings per diluted share of $2.88.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance of our Cabela's CLUB.
Thanks Tommy.
For the quarter we were pleased with our outperformance in revenue expense leverage and profit.
Despite a decrease in merchandise gross margin we're able to grow earnings per diluted share through merchandise sales growth strong performance from Cabela's CLUB and expense leverage.
During the quarter to no surprise we experienced headwinds from unseasonable weather which affected our soft goods categories and strength in firearms and ammunition.
As a result we experienced pressure on our margin rate.
With this pressure top of mind we focused on gross profit dollar growth improving our inventory position and leveraging our expenses.
Our continued focus on expense management led to operating expense leverage of 130 basis points for the quarter.
We're confident that our continued focus on expense management will provide sustainable benefit to profit contributions over the next several years.
For the quarter Financial Services revenue increased 15.7% to $131.1 million.
The increase in Financial Services revenue was primarily due to a 21.3% increase in interest and fee income and a 7.8% increase in interchange income.
Average active credit card accounts grew by 6.6% in the quarter to over 2 million.
For the quarter average credit card loans increased by 14.4% to approximately $4.8 billion.
And at the end of the year total loans exceeded $5 billion for the first time in history.
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans increased 2 basis points from the year-ago quarter and were 1.76% for the quarter.
During the quarter we saw a shift in the trends in delinquencies.
Greater than 30-day delinquencies were 0.82% as compared to 0.68% a year ago greater than 60-day delinquencies were 0.51% as compared to 0.41% a year ago and greater than 90-day delinquencies were 0.26% as compared to 0.22% a year ago.
During the quarter we increased our reserve for loan losses by almost $10 million as compared to an increase of $3.9 million in the same quarter a year ago as a result of growth in the portfolio and an increase in delinquencies.
For the full year 2015 the reserve for loan loss grew almost $20 million as compared to $3.5 million for the full year of 2014.
During the quarter we begin the implementation of several balance sheet optimization initiatives aimed at reducing working capital and monetizing unproductive assets.
At year end 2015 days inventory on hand decreased by approximately four days as compared to the prior year.
Inventory increased by 7.8% or $59 million year-over-year to $819.3 million.
We see improvement in inventory levels as a meaningful driver to balance sheet optimization going forward.
Before turning the call back over to Tommy let me remind you of a few details pertaining to our 2015 results and our 2016 expectations.
Due to the slowdown in store growth we expect full year 2016 capital expenditures to be between $200 million and $250 million.
As a reminder we executed a private placement transaction in August of 2015.
We drew $250 million in August and $300 million in December with maturities of $100 million in five years $250 million in seven years and $200 million in 10 years.
Interest will be paid semiannually at rates of 3.23% for the five-year maturities between 3.70% and 3.82% for the seven-year maturities and between 4.01% and 4.11% for the 10-year maturities.
In addition to use for general corporate purposes we also expect to use these notes in the repayment of unsecured notes for $215 million at 5.99% interest due on February 27 2016.
We expect interest expense in the first quarter to be a headwind due to the overlap in the existing private placement.
Additionally for the full year 2016 we expect to have incremental incentive compensation expense of $20 million to $25 million compared to full year 2015.
During the quarter due to a change in our calculation and increased sales volume our reserve for returned merchandise negatively impacted merchandise revenue by $12 million and merchandise gross profit by $5 million neither of which were included in our comparable store sales calculation.
We received a settlement during the quarter in the amount of $4 million.
This settlement offset related operating expenses incurred earlier in 2015.
During the quarter we completed a transaction related to our travel business.
We recognized a gain on this transaction of approximately $1.5 million.
For the full year 2015 we continued to report direct and retail as two different segments.
As we move to an omni-channel model the lines between these segments have blurred in both our eyes and our customers' eyes.
As such it is very difficult to differentiate between these two channels from a revenue perspective and almost impossible to differentiate the two channels from a profit perspective.
In the future we may no longer report these two segments – these two channels as separate segments.
Due to the 53rd week in 2015 we'll report first quarter 2016 comparable store sales on a reported basis as well as on a shifted basis to account for the extra week in the fourth quarter of 2015.
The shift in the calculation will provide a better view of how our comp stores perform by aligning the weeks of operation in the current year to the most comparable weeks in the prior year.
Through the end of the fourth quarter we repurchased approximately 2 million shares of our 74.2 million shares as part of our current share repurchase plan.
As Tommy mentioned we expect high single-digit growth rate from revenue and a high single-digit or low double-digit growth rate in earnings per diluted share for full year 2016 as compared to full year 2015 adjusted earnings per diluted share of $2.88.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
We were pleased to see our new vision begin to drive meaningful improvement across the business and we will continue to implement initiatives across the organization that will generate improved performance in both revenues and profitability.
Before turning it over for questions I want to sincerely thank our outfitters for their continued commitment and passion in cherishing and delighting our customers every day.
Our successes throughout the implementation of our new vision and our strategies are evident of your hard work and dedication and I thank each and every one of you for your efforts.
With that operator let's open the call for questions.
Thank you sir.
We'll go first to Seth Sigman Credit Suisse.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Seth.
I was wondering if you could elaborate on the cadence of the quarter and then also the comment about Q1 that suggested an improvement.
Does that mean comps are positive how should we be thinking about that? Well the cadence during the quarter the first two months of the quarter were tough obviously weather driven and we saw a real nice improvement in December.
And those December trends have continued into the first quarter.
We've seen acceleration in comp performance and gross profit dollar performance.
Rate is better and we continue to see really favorable improvement in operating expenses.
Okay.
And clearly the organization has been hard at work.
That improvement also coincides with what seems to be improvements across the broader industry coincides with weather and also the NICS improving.
Is there a way to isolate how much of that improvement is self-driven some of the assortment and other changes you've made versus broader industry improvements? Well I think you're getting to the gun and ammo question.
We didn't – we're not going to break out comps ex-gun and ammo as we did previously because it really wasn't that impactful in the quarter.
It's an improvement but it's nowhere near the scale that we saw at the end of 2012.
So I hope that answers the question.
Okay.
Yeah.
Let me just follow-up with a gross margin question going back to one of your comments.
Merchandise margin I think was down 190 basis points.
Can you maybe talk about how much of that was mix versus discounting? And then the second piece of that as you just look at merchandise margins for the year at roughly 34% it's below 2009 it's down 250 basis points from prior peak levels.
How do you think about the recovery opportunity and some of the structural and competitive changes that may limit that recovery? Thanks.
Yeah.
Seth this is Scott Williams so good to be on the call.
We broke down the gross margin shortfall roughly equally broke out between what was competitive promotional environment and what was merchandise mix.
And so roughly broke down equally between the two.
Okay.
And then just...
And as we look forward just a thought about the fourth quarter.
Given the weather and given what we had to do to clear goods in apparel and footwear we just got – we got really aggressive and we were driving more to gross profit dollars in the quarter.
And I would tell you we came very very close to our internal plan in gross profit dollars and had a lot of success in clearing inventory.
Obviously going forward we are working on dozens of strategies in the whole supply chain of merchandising that works for Scott now to get margin rate performance better but we're also focusing really heavily on driving gross profit dollars and there is a balance there.
But clearly we get it and we're doing everything that we can in what is the challenging environment to get rate closer to flat or up but we're not there yet.
Okay.
And then just what's embedded in the guidance is there an assumption that merch margins will improve as you look to 2016 and what's reflected in that guidance you gave? We're not looking for meaningful improvement in gross margin in 2016.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
We'll go next to Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning and congrats to Scott on his recent promotion.
Thanks Matt.
I've got a couple of questions.
The first one I wanted to start with on the new stores.
Tommy you mentioned that there's been a lot of analysis of the 2015 class and that you've identified some changes for the 2016 and 2017 classes.
Just wondering if you can talk about what some of the cost savings or CapEx savings opportunities are? Yeah.
Matt since Scott drove these initiatives I'm going to let him weigh in.
Matt we're really excited.
When we look at the SG&amp;A leverage and what we've driven in to kind of the DNA of the culture we're excited about that.
But we're also excited about what we found in both land cost cost of construction to build new stores and it's really broad based.
In some cases we think that we can live with a little bit smaller parking lots and that gives us some savings in CapEx and land cost.
We've been able to look at reengineering some materials that are non-customer facing and that goes to our commentary that we think that we can have positive attractive returns on these new stores even at today's levels.
We're also looking at how to align with our 2020 vision on the hunt camp fish shoot to drive revenue in those key categories that Cabela's has ownership in.
To that point one of the studies that Scott's team did was to do an analysis of the utilization of the parking lots and we've actually found in some of the old stores we may have more parking than we need and we can go sell some of those out lots which as an example I know in the press release we've referred to unproductive assets that'd be an example of some of the unproductive assets that we're thinking about converting to cash.
Over the next 12 months to 24 months as we look to the optimal use of those – of that real estate and there's other real estate that we've got that we think that we can – as we consolidate corporate offices and some of these other things we think there's some assets that are outside of working capital we can convert to cash.
Matt it's kind of interesting looking back over time.
If you'll recall the Outpost stores got off to a very rough start and we went back and talk to our customers they told us focus on the core and give us a little better mix of branded merchandise in apparel.
We did that and the Outpost stores are the best performing of our new class of stores in comp performance and they are doing really really well in sales per square foot versus the legacy stores now and a lot of those learnings from merchandising Scott took into the future vision stores of the 50 000 and 70 000 footers.
And we're pretty excited about the opportunity to thoughtfully restart growth again.
And Matt finally...
Okay.
One final comment.
We're looking at some internal measures that we don't publish.
But the percentage of our sales per square foot that is sellable square footage.
So the elimination of larger back rooms based on efficient use of inventory what we're able to do to support with IT and other things to try to maximize the selling square footage in each of our new stores.
Great.
That's super helpful.
And then Ralph you partially answered my second question on the sale of unproductive assets.
Is there – do you have a target range in mind for what those assets could be worth in sum? Yeah.
As we think about it it's probably it's something $50 million or maybe greater than that when you look at the excess real estate we've got and that will take some amount of time to liquidate.
But as I think about unproductive inventory it's – or unproductive assets it's really working capital and that's by far the bigger opportunity and then some of these unproductive assets that Scott and I talked about.
Okay.
Great.
And then just lastly the January charge-offs up-ticked a little bit versus the normal trend from December to January.
Just wondering if you think that's sort of a further escalation in what we saw in the fourth quarter and do you have any kind of early sense for what might need to happen in the loan loss reserve? Well I'll tell you this.
When we think about our guidance for 2016 we've anticipated charge-offs increasing slightly over time.
And when we're thinking – I mean one of the things people kindly get lost on is we increased our – in our results for 2015 we increased our allowance for loan losses by almost $20 million.
And as we look forward to 2016 we're thinking of another increase maybe close to that magnitude of an increase as we look forward to next year.
So I think we're certainly not alarmed by it but we think we've reached the trough of charge-offs and we expect them to go up.
I don't know as I've told other people forever the historic range of charge-offs at our bank has been somewhere between 2% and 2.25% and we think over a number of years we're going to return to that range.
Makes sense.
Okay.
Very helpful.
Thanks so much.
And we'll go next to Jim Duffy with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Couple of questions for you.
First as you look to the analysis of stores in the class of 2015 were there any characteristics of the site locations of the stores that you were most disappointed with that shared commonality? As we look through it I mean there is no question there were some greater sense of stores in the Southeast and maybe it will take us a little longer to get our brand penetration there.
And we've talked earlier we look to drive times.
Drive times have been a little less and I think what we're doing is just trying to adjust the organization the cost of the box and the expenses in the box for what maybe a lower revenue number than what we enjoyed on some of our earlier next generation stores.
And Jim just to put an exclamation point on Ralph's comment as relates to the 2015 class of stores we're not just sitting back and saying well they weren't as good as we thought they were going to be.
We have a number of initiatives tied to our deeper focus on the core which is the hunter the angler the camper and the recreational shooter in those stores and we're anxious to see the results of those as we do our spring rolls and adjust the layouts in those stores.
To my comment to Matt Nemer those kind of adjustments had a meaningful impact in our Outpost stores and we'll see what happens in this class of stores.
And what you can expect is from those Outpost stores which are the class of stores that have gone from underperforming to marked improvement we take those tests and roll them out not only to 2015 stores but where possible integrate those into the building process for 2016 2017.
Also as we look at the 2016 class of stores we've announced these but you'll see us going into some markets that we haven't been in before.
It will be our first store in the Greater Houston area.
We'll have a second store in North Salt Lake.
We will have a store in Richmond Virginia.
We think there is some really core markets that we're going into and we're excited about this class of stores.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then Scott can you speak to some of the areas of the merchandising strategy that you should make – you think should make positive contributions to comp in 2016? What are some of the areas we should watch for? Well as a part of our Vision 2020 we've announced to focus on hunt fish camp and shooting sports that's recreational shooting.
We were really pleased with our camp Cabela's initiative in this last year which showed a signal for our organization to really rally around the category and throughout the year camping outperformed the overall complex and its comp performance and growth rates.
We've identified some excitement around recreational shooting which is a real growth area within the industry and we think it's an area that we have a right to own.
Our customers have told us they expect us to have strong assortments there and strong growth there.
Additionally we have a number of tests underway some of which we don't disclose for competitive reasons but there is one I would talk about in apparel where we've been looking for greater performance in apparel.
And we found that our customers have told us they want a nice balance between Cabela's branded product and national brand.
So we've rolled out a project a test that we internally called monster shops.
It features some of our best soft goods national brands think of Under Armour The North Face Columbia Carhartt.
It's shown some real nice improvements and as we reap the benefits of these tests you can expect those to be layered into our future stores.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks for that.
And maybe the last question for Ralph.
Ralph you guys have been tightening the belt for some time now.
Can you may be shed some light on some of the key areas where you're looking for further expense savings? Yeah.
And Scott should weigh in on this too.
But I would tell you Scott's really led an initiative across the entire organization to reduce expenses and it's everything from – and then each member of senior team has got a particular aspect of that we're leading.
For example I'm leading indirect procurement where we're looking at all of the people that we buy stuff for that's not for resale trying to drive down the cost of that but it includes store level labor it includes IT.
There's several avenues that we're reaching.
I would tell you we're just starting.
As we dig in more we find more and more.
Scott do you want to add to that? Well I think it's encouraging is that it is so broad based and so as we talked about in the script it goes from retail labor optimization IT processes global sourcing end-to-end product flow supply chain enhancements.
So as we go forward we're not just finding that in one place and we're finding a lot in the leverage and then taking those practices to our new store models as well.
So we're really encouraged that the organization has embraced this and has found some significant results.
Jim what I am particularly encouraged about is the cost savings that we've gotten in its early stages.
These are permanent cost take outs in the organization that once out we're just not going to let them come back in and we're finding that as we focus tighter we distract the organization less and I think everyone in the company is responding favorably to that.
Yeah.
And then similarly we're also leading an initiative on the balance sheet to reduce working capital using a lot of the same processes and I think you saw some of the early signs of that in the quarter also.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Indeed.
Thank you guys.
Thanks.
Thanks.
We'll go next to Rick Nelson with Stephens.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks and good morning.
I'd add my congrats to Scott as well.
I'd like to ask about the inventory opportunity.
It looks like you made some progress for sure in the quarter and is there a goal that you have in mind in terms of inventory turn or some other metric that we can think about the continued opportunity? Well we do have a goal as it relates to inventory turns.
I'm not sure we're ready to share that publicly but we would expect turn improvement over the next two years.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
Thanks for that.
Also I'd like to – it sounds like these national brand shops are showing some success here.
I think you had talked about a 25-store test.
And this morning I think you indicated that was going to be expanded.
Is that going to the entire chain? We are in the low 20s on that test.
So you're correct in the number of stores.
And then we will sequentially roll that out.
We're going to be adding like 8 to 10 stores as we go forward and we're doing in as a part of several combined initiatives.
So when we go in and do what I'll call a mini remodel we will reset several different departments and that will be consistent with that.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
And what sort of lift out of it do you get with these shops versus the store base that doesn't have them? Well we haven't disclosed the results of that.
What I would tell you is that we're seeing nice lifts in subcategories.
And so what I mean by that if you go into men's apparel or women's apparel and get a nice lift it will balance across that overall store as a small amount.
But these categories will outperform.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Got you.
Finally the NICS checks have really accelerated here in December in January again.
How you are thinking about that type of gun/ammo business for the year? And it's an election year how you plan the business around that? Rick we were just at the SHOT Show in Las Vegas about three weeks ago and I think the acceleration of gun and ammo sales started in early December and the tone at the SHOT Show is it was kind of to our approach things are better but I think the memory of the falloff once the boom ended in 2013 is still very fresh in both big box retailers independent dealers and wholesale distributors' minds.
And our manufacturing partners told us that people were being constrained in their enthusiasm over placing huge orders on a bet that things were going to get really busy later this year.
And I think we've taken the same position.
Our vendors have been really supportive.
I think it's clearly a tailwind to some degree this year but not distorted like it was in the last run-up three years ago.
We'll monitor this as we get through the year.
If I think back to 2012 we didn't really start making inventory bets until the July-August timeframe.
And I think we're on the same kind of a trajectory as we lead up to the election.
We're not getting overly exuberant right now because those memories from 2013 and 2014 are still clear in our heads.
Inc.</span></strong> Fair enough.
Thanks Tommy and good luck.
Thanks.
We'll go next to Peter Keith with Piper Jaffray.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Just a commentary on your new store growth and the 200 to 225 store target you made some interesting comments today on the Outpost stores.
Is that a concept now that we should expect to be reinvigorated and perhaps utilized more in the new store growth figures? No we're going to – for the success of the Outpost stores one of the challenges is in only 40 000 square feet you don't have a lot of room for the operators to manage seasonal changes.
So Scott and his team have developed a 50 000 foot box that gives us a little more flexibility given the seasonal nature of the business and that's what you should expect to see.
Scott you want to add anything? Yeah.
I would just clarify that for our 2016 class of stores they are largely 70 000 square feet.
You will see us optimize to two main models 50 000 square feet and 70 000 square feet.
They will take the learnings from Outpost and with the changes we've implemented in the redesign we not only have the Outpost benefit of what we've been able to do with focus on hunt camp fish shoot we also are trying to optimize the percentage of selling square feet and that would allow the 50 000 square feet and 70 000 square feet to allow us to get our core inventory in there.
So we're excited about keeping the learnings and bringing them together from our next-gen success and Outpost success around 50 000 square feet and 70 000 square feet.
Okay.
That's helpful and thank you.
And then maybe just a quick balance sheet question for Ralph.
Certainly the improvement in inventory is apparent but also payable stepped down quite a bit such that your total cash conversion cycle moved down year-on-year.
Was there some anomaly with payables in the fourth quarter or anything that we could think about for the coming year to improve that working capital more? Well we're absolutely also focused on extending payables and have some initiatives underway.
I will tell you quarter-to-quarter when you look at the consolidated results the bank creates a noise in there with respect to when their month end is and when some of their payments are due to their big contractors.
We are equally as focused on really three areas payables gift instruments and points.
We think that's an opportunity for a source of cash and inventory and we're focused on all three of them.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Good luck.
We'll go next to David Magee with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Couple of questions.
One is Tommy when you mentioned earlier about the competition you weren't feeling any effects of competition.
Could you talk a little bit about what you're seeing more at the store level when you do have head-to-head competition coming in are your stores performing the way you would hope them to? Yes.
And David during the quarter we commented on the call that we saw virtually little to no impact from either our own cannibalization or competitive incursion.
And I suspect the competitive incursion is a function of other people slowing down store growth in 2015 following the difficult industry challenges in 2013 and 2014.
So that we would have expected.
But the impact of our own cannibalization was virtually non-existent which is a positive.
Inc.</span></strong> And so I guess I can infer that the stores are performing okay against new competition when they do have new competition.
So maybe they're slowing down in terms of the rate but...? Yes very much.
So in fact one of our competitors references that in their earnings calls.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you for that.
And secondly last quarter you talked about drive times being contracting a bit and today you mentioned that was a dynamic in the Southeast.
Are you still seeing that do you think on a broader basis and is that something that maybe at least a slight headwind for 2016? Yeah.
This is Scott.
We study the drive times pretty closely and we use that very heavily and when we approve new stores.
I would describe the drive times as a slight contraction thinking in the 5-minute to 10-minute type of range not a drastic contraction.
I would tell you we look at it by regionality and we watched that closely in the Southeast looking at how those stores performed and it maybe a little bit of a characteristic of the Southeast but it also can be a characteristic of the density of an urban area as well for where we would draw from because of the drive times and the traffic in those areas.
Yeah.
To add on to that I mean for example one of our – and geography has a lot to do with this.
One of our narrowest drive time stores in the Denver market which interestingly enough is one of our best stores.
So and that's just because everybody in Denver lives in the greater – or everybody in Colorado lives in the Greater Denver Area and it's just very urban but the store is doing very well.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Scott and Ralph thank you.
Good luck.
We'll go next to Stephen Tanal with Goldman Sachs.
Guys thanks for taking the question and congrats to you Scott.
Thank you.
Just a start.
Could you talk about ticket versus transactions in the quarter.
How each one of those did? Yeah similar to prior trends transactions were down and ticket was up.
Okay.
So SG&amp;A I guess is the biggest surprise to me obviously really good result there.
Can you talk anything specific I mean the way I'm looking at this you levered 130 bps despite comping down 5 bps and you just last quarter set a target of 75 bps to 150 bps over three years.
So you're kind of already there despite what I guess you'd even describe as maybe a choppy top line.
So should we – should we think that there is upside to that or are you guys at a rate that we should be modeling going forward? Is there anything one-time-ish in nature in there just some color would be helpful? Well I'll let – Scott is going to add on to this.
But first of all I wouldn't declare because we got down a 130 bps in one quarter overall.
I mean we need to do for more than one quarter in a row.
There probably was some help in the first quarter.
I mean we had the extra week which was a very good week.
It was obviously in a big time of the year.
There was (47:56) big expense base to get some out.
So I don't know that I would be thinking about.
I would still stick to our kind of 150 bps three-year guidance.
But we're obviously very pleased with what we saw in the first quarter.
And as we talked about our broad-based cost initiatives and we outlined a bunch of those like the indirect procurement and IT process improvement we have a very extensive process to map those costs make sure they actually get out of the business and we have dedicated teams working on this project.
And I would say as you think about the 150 bps over three years think of that evenly spread 50 bps a year.
We feel like we have pretty good line of sight to that based off our early efforts and we will of course keep chugging to improve upon that but we feel like we have very specific buckets identified in a matter of executing to get that out of the business.
Steven I would add that just from my chair what I'm most pleased about is to see the organizational buy-in on helping us eliminate unnecessary processes stop doing things that we just do because we've always done them.
And it gives me real hope that we are very early innings.
And if we see visibility to the 150 basis points going up we're obviously going to share it.
And believe me we are doing everything in our power to drive that number north of what we've guided to.
And I think your takeaway should be we are really encouraged by the velocity we've developed and we intend on doing everything we can do accelerate that velocity.
That's all very helpful.
And could you tell us how much SG&amp;A was in the extra week as we think about what's normalized here? No.
Well you get back into it but I don't have the SG&amp;A broken out by week.
We thought of the – and I actually saw in the note earlier today a bigger number than this.
We thought about the extra week as being about $0.08 of earnings per share.
Obviously there wouldn't be a difference in margin in the extra week or not meaningfully.
So you could probably back into some SG&amp;A number for the extra week.
Got it.
That's helpful.
Stephen one other thing.
I think you've been very aware of our new store growth models.
One of the reasons our organization is really getting behind this attacking of corporate overhead is that if we want to restart growth and build out to 225 stores which our organization really wants to do a key component of that is lowering corporate overhead so that that component of the model works.
And in conjunction with that you may not have been on the call earlier there has been a Herculean effort to get the cost of the building the size of the parking lots the amount of selling footage in our new 50 000-foot and 70 000-foot stores correct.
So these two-pronged approaches the organization has rallied behind because we want to take the Cabela's experience across North America and this is the way to do it and make it work for the shareholders.
That all make sense.
Thank you guys.
Appreciate it.
We'll go next to Patrick McKeever with MKM Partners.
Thanks.
I know you don't want to break out the firearm and ammunition comp like you did in the past.
But I think there's some concern that you might not be getting your share of what appears to be a pretty strong acceleration in gun demand based on the NICS numbers.
So how would you answer that question in terms of – I mean do you feel like you are getting your share? Or do you feel Tommy like you might be leaving some sales on the table by not bulking up enough on inventory just playing it more conservatively? Well let me – Tommy will add on to this but let me just talk a little bit about it.
I'm not sure I know how you can conclude that we did or didn't get our share.
I mean this was largely – the gun and ammo boom that was seen in the NICS data was largely an event of what the tragedy we saw in San Bernardino which I think happened in the middle of December.
So there're only a handful of weeks in the quarter we just reported that were post that event.
So I don't know how you conclude that.
Tommy you may want to comment on that.
And adding on to what Ralph said we have not been supply constrained up until this point.
So I see no evidence whatsoever in our daily sales of guns and ammo that we are doing anything other than taking share and competing in the marketplace.
So you shouldn't take – you shouldn't read into that at all.
Okay.
Okay fair enough.
And it's not necessarily my read but I think there is that concern.
There shouldn't be.
Okay.
Good stuff.
And then on direct you saw – down 4% – a little more than 4% excluding the extra week which is a bit of an improvement from the second and third quarters.
I know you're not going to break that out or it sounds like you're not going to break that out going forward.
But my question is – I mean I think you've been saying direct will probably continue to decrease – or continue to show year-over-year declines in sales.
But are you feeling better about that business? And do you think you can start to grow it on a year-over-year basis and effectively compete with Amazon and some of the others out there? Yeah.
Well first of all as we look at the direct business we continue to put investments into that business and we're really proud of the investments we've put into it.
Our simplified checkout on our website our mobile experience et cetera we think are all reaping underlying benefits.
However we really forecasted just moderate improvements in that business and part of that's because we continue to have cannibalization from our retail growth.
So largely the reason – Ralph you can weigh in on this that we will probably not break that out going forward because we've seen continued increase in our omni-channel orders where folks are consuming the marketing on one side and consummating the sale in another channel.
Yeah.
The bigger issue in looking at the direct as a segment is really from a profitability perspective because almost – something like 70% or 80% of the expenses that are currently allocated to the direct segment are advertising.
And as our advertising messages take so many different forms and so many different channels it's really difficult to determine is that advertising just for direct or does it go across the whole organization as our customers choosing to deal with us in so many different fashions than they did four or five years ago.
Quite frankly the reporting probably hasn't caught up with where our business is.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Very helpful.
We'll go next to Lee Giordano with Sterne Agee CRT.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Can you talk some more about the performance of the Cabela's branded products in the quarter? And then as you think about branded versus private label longer term how do you see the penetration of private label versus where it is today? Thanks.
Yeah.
When you take a look at our overall Cab-branded penetration it's really difficult to look at it during the Q4 of last year.
As you can expect our penetration of Cab brand in soft goods is a very high percentage.
And our penetration of Cab brand in the hunting complex is a lot lower percentage based on the preponderance of firearms et cetera.
So just a shift from soft goods due to the weather to the hunting complex will bring down the Cab branded percentage.
Important to note though in our hunting complex and in our general outdoors areas the percentage of Cab brand both went up in 2015 versus 2014.
We did decline slightly in soft goods and some of that is what I described earlier of our balance letting the customer vote between Cab branded and our monster shops initiatives and so we will continue to watch that and let the sales results drive that percentage.
But we in no way have moved away from Cab brand.
It continues to be a key differentiator for us.
Okay.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Andrew Burns with D.
A.
Davidson.
Thanks.
Two follow-ups from earlier topics.
First with the focus on hunt camp fish shoot will that actually translate into some floor space shifting out of soft goods? And will consumers perceive a much larger hard goods assortment as they come into stores in 2016? We have tests underway that we're not ready to disclose for competitive reasons.
But one of the things that's really encouraged about within our organization is that we have a robust analytics organization that we believe in test and learn.
And so as we go in and test different models and different floor space allocations we will implement those that are reaping benefits.
But I wouldn't want you to read this as some kind of massive shift away from soft goods categories.
It's more at the subcategory level and focusing more on what our customers want from us and less on what they are telling us they don't want from us.
Thanks.
That's helpful.
And then just in terms of inventory positions in what looks to be an uptrend in firearms and ammunition we've heard from Winchester and Federal Premium about ammunition coming on strong here in recent months.
In past cycles you've had some pretty opportunistic inventory buys there that really differentiated you and benefited the top line.
Thoughts about buying deeper potentially in an uptrend in that category ammunition.
Thanks.
We'll monitor that as we go through the year and we think our balance sheet and our ability to pay our bills will be a powerful differentiator with our vendor base who we have great relationships with globally.
Thank you and good luck.
Okay.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Matt McClintock with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
And congrats Scott.
Thanks.
Inc.</span></strong> I only have one question.
Just focusing on the credit business the average balance per credit account increased I think the highest rate that we've seen since I guess the mid-2000s.
And I was just wondering how to think about that metric in an environment of slight increases – clearly slight increases – in early-stage delinquencies and charge-offs as well as declining comp store sales.
Thanks.
Yeah let me take each of those in no particular order.
But remember on our card only about 3% of the spend is in our stores.
So there's almost no correlation (59:55) comp store sales and average balance on the card.
What I've talked about for a long period of time is that the more – there's a maturity factor with respect to average balance.
A 10-year-old account has a significantly higher average balance than it does in the first year that it opens.
So when you see store growth decline – and particularly assuming we stay below the 14 we opened the 13 we opened last year for a while – as you slow down stores you will slowly see account growth decelerate but you'll see average balance accelerate just as you get more and more of those mature accounts in the mix.
Now another phenomenon that we're seeing and watching very closely is revolving rate keeps going up.
Now that also increases as an account matures but we've been surprised I guess as to how that continues to go up and up and up.
We're watching it closely to make sure that it's not an early indicator of bad debts or delinquencies or some other problems we're seeing in the portfolio.
But the trends in that business from a receivable standpoint are extraordinarily strong and we expect them to continue for the foreseeable future.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks a lot.
That's exactly what I was looking for.
Best of luck.
And our next question will come from Mark Smith Feltl &amp; Company.
Hey guys.
First off can you just talk a little bit – you've talked about the inventory – just how you feel like you came out of the quarter in apparel and footwear? And maybe so far in Q1 how much you've been able to move or if there are any issues? We were really proud of the way the team reacted to the environment.
As we talked about October and November it became pretty clear weather was not going to be our friend.
And out in the external market we had other retailers noting that they were struggling and were going to take more aggressive discounting postures.
The team actually took about a three-pronged approach.
One is we did have to do some additional discounting and movement so that we wouldn't end the year with any aged or problematic go-forward goods.
We also took a look at what we could do from return to vendors and/or any sort of adjustment of future receipts in a very modest way.
But the team was able to navigate through this where we were just slightly over our inventory targets in soft goods as we finished the year and the year did finish strong in December for the 52nd week and 53rd week which end up being very busy weeks as they go forward as folks go post Christmas.
Okay.
And Mark I think we feel really good about how we've been able to liquidate and thus far in this quarter and we feel great about where inventories are.
Perfect.
And then can you guys just go through quickly maybe the cadence of openings in 2016? Yeah.
I sure can.
We have eight stores for this year actually next month we'll open in Lexington Kentucky and Lake City which is South Houston those are March 16.
In April we have three stores: Short Pump Virginia which is Richmond; Centerville Ohio which is between Cincinnati and Columbus in the Dayton area Farmington Utah North Salt Lake and then in August we'll be in Avon Ohio – think Cleveland area and then Ottawa Ontario Canada.
It's interesting.
By the time when we visit with you guys next time in late April five of the eight stores that we have slated for 2018 will be open.
Did I miss one there? I think we went through seven.
Is that last one later than August? I mean I didn't say Abbotsford that's Greater Vancouver.
I apologize that was June.
That's June okay.
Okay perfect.
And then last question it may be a minor thing but I'm just curious if we're seeing consumers change the way they're shopping maybe.
It sounds like archery was soft in retail but was up in the direct business.
Is that a category where we're seeing people shift more to online? No.
I think it was more liquidation of slow-moving and obsolete archery products that we liquidated in the direct channel.
I think archery is a pretty technical sport and we're just in an innovation cycle in the industry right now that I'm very confident will recover as it always does.
And that's the only – that's the explanation for archery.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thanks guys.
We have no additional questions.
I'd like to turn the call back to management for any additional or closing comments.
Thank you all for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you soon.
And that does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.