Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Cardinal Health Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Janeda and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
John Frank Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Janeda and welcome to Cardinal Health's First Quarter Fiscal 2011 Conference Call.
Sally couldn't be with us today due to a death in her family which is why I'm providing the introduction to today's call.
Today we will be looking at forward-looking statements.
The matters addressed in these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to the SEC filings and the Forward-Looking Statement slide at the beginning of our presentation found on the Investor page of our website for a description of those risks and uncertainties.
In addition we will reference non-GAAP financial measures.
Information about non-GAAP financial measures is included at the end of the slides.
Before I turn the call over to Chairman and CEO George Barrett I would like to remind you of a few upcoming investment conferences and events in which we will be participating and webcasting.
Notably the annual meeting of Cardinal Health shareholders on November 3 at the Cardinal Health headquarters in Dublin Ohio; 2010 Credit Suisse Healthcare Conference on November 10 at the Arizona Biltmore in Phoenix; Lazzard Healthcare Conference on November 16 at the St.
Regis Hotel in New York; Cardinal Health Investor Day and Analyst Day on December 7 at the Hudson Theatre in New York.
The details of these events are or will be posted on the Investor Relations Events section of our website at www.cardinalhealth.com.
So please make sure to visit the site often for updated information.
We look forward to seeing you at the upcoming events.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to George.
George? Thanks John and our thoughts go out to Sally and her family during this difficult time.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on our first quarter's call.
Our fiscal 2011 or Q1 fiscal 2011 is up to a very good start.
We reported revenues for the first quarter of $24.4 billion and a non-GAAP EPS number of $0.64 up 19% over the prior year period.
And while we had a slight decline in overall revenues on a year-over-year basis we generated a healthy expansion in gross margins and held SG&amp;A essentially flat to the prior year.
Our strong operating performance in the quarter was driven by excellent results in our Pharmaceutical segment offsetting an expected difficult year-over-year comparison in our Medical segment.
Overall we continued our momentum coming out of fiscal 2010 strengthening the core of our business so we have a strong foundation from which to grow with particular emphasis on margin expansion disciplined management of working capital growing generics at an accelerated rate and enhancing the customer experience.
Our customer work is beginning to produce results as we look at our record of contract wins and renewals in the Medical segment and a continued strength with our retail independent customer base.
We have a very strong balance sheet and continue to manage it carefully.
And during the quarter we demonstrated our commitment to a balanced capital deployment strategy.
We increased our quarterly dividend payment.
We completed the acquisition of Healthcare Solutions and we repurchased $250 million in shares.
Our operating initiatives are on track and we continue our progress in positioning our company to deliver sustained growth.
Now let me provide some additional color on each segment separately.
Performance in our Pharmaceutical segment and in particular our Pharma Distribution business really drove the company's overall operating performance in the quarter.
Segment sales were down 1% versus the prior year period due to a drop in sales to existing bulk customers and the impact from the previously disclosed loss of two large-revenue customers last year.
We will begin to lap those losses in the second half of fiscal 2011.
Despite the slight decline in revenue segment profit was outstanding up 42% versus the first quarter of last year.
And our segment profit rate increased by a robust 41 basis points.
Our improved profitability was driven primarily by outstanding performance in our Generics business various initiatives focused on improving margins and solid performance in our branded manufacturer agreements.
We continue to build our capabilities and services to support our branded pharma partners.
And as a result these relationships are strong.
As I mentioned we had an excellent performance across our generic activities both on the sales and sourcing side.
Let me take a moment to provide a little more color on our progress in these areas.
Our generic penetration continues to be a focus and the team is executing exceptionally well in our source program across our retail independent customers and with our retail buying groups.
The SOURCE program is our most comprehensive generics offering and includes nearly 4 000 generic drugs that make up esentially all of the retail pharmacies' product needs.
SOURCE revenues was up a robust 34% in the quarter versus the first quarter of last year.
We have improved our execution on generic launches and have continued to enlist customers in our First Script auto shipment program.
Success with these generic programs is resulting in value for our customers for our suppliers and for us.
We also continue to make progress in our efforts to rebalance our business mix.
Growth in our Retail Independent business continues to track ahead of the market reflecting the emphasis we've placed in this channel in the past 18 months.
And our churn rate at the end of the first quarter which captures both controllable and non-controllable account losses was the lowest it's been since we began measuring churn many years ago.
Turning to Nuclear.
The raw material shortages we experienced through most of last year did resolve in the first quarter and supply began to return to more normal levels after a long and difficult period of time.
Both the Chalk River reactor in Canada and the Petten reactor in the Netherlands were at full production by late September.
Demand has not yet returned to pre-shortage levels but we do expect to see this build over time.
We have plans in place to help facilitate this ship with our customers in the coming months.
In many ways our relationship with our customers strengthened during the material shortages as we worked closely with them to ensure that the needs of the most critical patients were met first.
We continued to expand our position in molecular imaging.
And in our positron emission tomography or PET unit we are now working on clinical trials for 17 new compounds.
We've made excellent progress in the three quarters since we launched this initiative and we are well positioned to support this PET bio tracers through post commercialization.
We will plan to give you a more complete view of our nuclear strategy at our Analyst Day in December.
We've made substantial progress on launching our new specialty division called Cardinal Health Specialty Solutions which brings together all of our specialty capabilities within the Pharma segment including specialty distribution third-party logistics and cold chain management drug development consulting and program management regulatory and compliance services risk mitigation strategies medical billing and claims processing sourcing and purchasing services and clinical pathways and treatment protocols.
We achieved an important milestone this quarter closing on the acquisition of Healthcare Solutions or P4 as it is known in the oncology community.
Our P4 integration is on schedule and as indicated previously we expect it to be substantially complete by the end of the next quarter.
We are building a world-class management team in our new specialty division in addition to retaining the leadership of P4 including founders: Raj Mantena and Dr.
Jeffrey Scott.
We've attracted a great leader to run the overall Cardinal Health Specialty Solutions division.
Meghan FitzGerald our new President has extensive healthcare industry experience focusing on specialty products.
Her background includes senior roles in corporate development strategy and international operations with companies including Medco Pfizer and Merck.
Also joining us is Dr.
Bruce Steinberg.
Most recently Bruce was President and CEO of Georgia Cancer Specialists a Top 10 private cancer practice and leader in advanced cancer treatment and research.
And the work we've done over the past month to build out our specialty physical infrastructure is largely complete.
We've also been working close with all stakeholders to solidify our partnerships and introduce Cardinal Health expanded specialty capabilities.
Our value proposition connects patients physicians payors and pharmaceutical manufactures with the goal to improve access to efficient high quality care.
A key component of our value proposition is P4 pathways which brings together payors and practices.
We believe this capability in conjunction with the pharmacy management core competency we have within our pharmacy solutions unit will give us a competitive advantage.
The timing is right for this important focus on integrated care.
We continue to be very excited about our specialty strategy and our P4 acquisition and we plan to show more details on our model in progress at our Analyst and Investor Day in December.
Now let me discuss our Medical segment.
The quarter came in about as expected.
Segment sales were down 3% and segment profit was down 28% versus the prior year.
Given the unusual comparisons in the quarter I'll let Jeff walk you through the details but let me give you an overall perspective on our progress.
We completed the rollout of our segment strategy around channel and category management during the quarter.
This was an important change management staff to align the entire segment around the common goals for our customers and leverage our own strengths.
We continue to build out our preferred product portfolio and feel very good about our expanded global sourcing capabilities and our presence in Asia to drive this strategy.
Our medical transformation initiative continues to progress and has moved into the build and test phase for the distribution solutions.
Our Ambulatory business where we have made investments to grow our footprint grew well ahead of the market.
And the cross-selling effort with the Pharma segment continues to pick up speed.
I'd like to take just a moment to give you my observations on the demand side in our medical markets.
Demand in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 was very similar to demand in the fourth quarter fiscal 2010.
We have continued to see some sluggishness in elective procedure and doctor visits both of which have an impact on the demand for our products and some of our medical businesses.
Having said this I've spent a fair amount of time in recent weeks in the field speaking to hospital executives.
And I'm guardedly optimistic that procedural volumes will gradually recover.
Granted this is by no means a scientific example.
We'll be following the situation closely and we'll provide updates during our scheduled calls.
We are taking a cautious approach and will continue to model a relatively soft market until we see these anecdotal observations begin to show up in the data.
Our recent account wins are giving us greater confidence that the actions we've taken over the last year to enhance the value we deliver to our customer are bearing fruit and validate our channel and category strategy as well as our ability to execute.
We recently won a major multi-year product agreement with HPG a group purchasing organization that supports nearly 1 400 acute care facilities.
And in addition to a number of recent renewals and new account wins we signed large multi-year contracts with Baylor Healthcare System and another renowned academic medical center that draws on the depth and beadth of our supply-chain offerings across our Medical businesses.
We are competing effectively in the Medical segment.
We are positioned well and we will continue to invest where we see opportunities for growth.
In summary we're continuing the momentum we felt during the course of fiscal 2010.
This was a strong quarter and a very good start to fiscal 2011.
And I'm confident in our strategy and in our ability to perform.
15 reporting weeks into the year there's plenty of games still to be played.
But based on our performance in the first quarter and our progress on key initiatives in both segments we've become more confident in achieving the higher end of the guidance range we provided in August.
Now let me hand the call over to Jeff to provide more financial details.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call today.
Like George I am very pleased with the results of the quarter and the momentum we have carried over from fiscal 2010.
Q1 is an excellent start to our year.
Let me add to George's remarks by expanding on some financial trends and drivers in the first quarter.
I'll also provide some color to the full fiscal year outlook including some of our key expectation from a corporate and segment standpoint.
Let's start with the consolidated results for the first quarter summarized on Slide 4.
Despite a slight revenue decline we delivered 6% gross margin growth and with the benefit of relatively flat expenses leveraged out into 15% non-GAAP operating earnings growth.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were up less than 1% as expense efficiencies largely offset the business expenses added to the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures.
The Non-GAAP tax rate was 37.1% largely in line with our expectation for the full year but above last year's rate of 35.4%.
We benefited from the $450 million in share repurchases we have executed over the past two quarters including $250 million in Q1 resulting in a significant reduction in share count to just under 352 million diluted shares outstanding.
Importantly we continue to make real progress on our two key financial metrics: margin expansion and networking and capital optimization.
At the consolidated level the gross margin rate increased to 3.94% which is an improvement of 27 basis points versus Q1 of FY '10 and 24 basis points sequentially versus Q4 driven by gains in our Pharmaceutical segment.
The non-GAAP operating margin rate improved 22 basis points versus last year's Q1 to 1.52%.
We also saw further improvement in our networking capital days.
Although inventory days have not come down this quarter we reduced our day sales outstanding and realized a market improvement in days payable driven by changes in one of our large vendor agreements.
We continue to build on our Lean operational excellence initiatives to optimize working capital levels in fiscal '11 with the goal of sustaining and improving upon the gains achieved last year.
To summarize we are making great progress with our performance initiatives and it's beginning to consistently show in our key metrics.
Although we'll always see some quarterly fluctuations and margin rate trends at working capital levels due to the nature of our business and external factors we feel we have the actions in place to continue to move these in the right direction.
Let me now provide a few other comments on segment performance in Q1 referring primarily to Slide 5 and 6 and starting with the Pharma segment.
Revenue in the Segment declined 1%.
This primarily reflects three major items.
First bulk sales for existing customers were down driven by changes in ordering patterns in some of our large bulk customers including the year-on-year impact of some large Tamiflu orders which occurred in fiscal '10.
Second as disposed previously we continue to feel the impact of ending our relationship with two large revenue customers in the Mail Order and Grocery Chain Pharmacy segments which dampens sales growth by approximately 1.2 percentage points in Q1.
We will begin to lap this revenue losses by mid fiscal 2011.
Third we also had a dilutive effect on revenue mix from the conversion of certain brands to generics.
In addition to driving down overall sales these three items had a disproportionate impact on sales to bulk customers which were down 8% for the quarter.
However I'm pleased to report that sales to non-bulk customers were up 6% for the period.
Within this customer category revenues from retail independents grew 3% continuing to grow at a rate above the market in this important classic trade.
Our overall generics revenue growth was nearly 20% driven by an impressive 34% growth in our generics preferred SOURCE program.
The Pharma segment profit margin rate increased by 41 basis points compared to prior year's Q1.
In addition to the continued success of our generic sales and sourcing programs we also saw more than expected benefit from new item generic launches during the quarter.
Solid performance under our array of manufacturer agreements and brand inflation from our remaining price-contingent vendors were also positive drivers.
Please keep in mind that we benefited year-on-year from the impact of certain large pharma vendors which transitioned to DFA agreements.
Finally I should point out that we had a change in estimated reserves related to DFA fees receivable from certain manufacturers which contributed $9 million dollars for the quarter.
We realized margin expansion in both our bulk and non-bulk customer segments.
For the quarter the bulk segment profit margin rate was 37 basis points and our non-bulk rate was 2.17%.
Both of these rates are significantly above last year's first quarter rates and the annual average for fiscal 2010.
A reminder that we are not planning to provide a detailed bulk/non-bulk margin quarterly breakdown in our 10-Qs going forward.
But we do want to make you aware of a fairly significant change in trend during this call.
Bottom line the segment had exceptional performance throughout and drove an increase in segment profit of 42% to $296 million.
Now turning to our Medical segment.
As George mentioned the first quarter had a bit of noise around it.
But overall we're pleased with where the business is heading.
Revenue for the segment declined by 3% to $2.17 billion primarily as a result of our prior year revenue recognition event that was triggered by the spinoff of CareFusion in the amount of $51 million as well as a tough compare against an early and strong flu season in the first half of fiscal 2010 worth $28 million in the quarter.
Excluding these two unique events the segment would've experienced positive revenue growth.
Importantly our Inventory business grew at a rate of over 5% which is significantly above market over the same time period.
Medical segment profit declined 28% to $83 million mainly due to the combined effect of last year's unique items namely the CareFusion revenue recognition issue which was worth about $14 million of profit and a flu impact of approximately $5 million.
Increase in commodity prices also created a year-on-year headwind in our current-period cost of goods sold of about $15 million.
All told these items' total reduction in segment profit growth of 30 percentage points.
Net-net despite the current short-term sluggishness we are seeing in the procedural market our Medical business is gaining momentum.
And we are continuing to invest in systems and strategy to drive longer-term growth and margin expansion.
Now let me turn to Slide 7 and take a moment to walk you through the items that accounted for the difference in our GAAP to non-GAAP EPS numbers.
All these figures that I'll review our on an after-tax basis.
The biggest item in this category is a $75 million gain from the sale of 30.5 million shares of CareFusion stock in the quarter.
This generated proceeds of $706 million and accounted for approximately $0.21 of GAAP EPS.
Please note that there is no tax impact associated with the sale due to the release of our previously established deferred tax valuation allowance.
The sale of these shares complete the liquidation of our CareFusion stake.
The remaining items on this page which is restructuring and severance acquisition-related costs and other spin-off costs netted to approximately a $0.01 reduction.
The net of all these items result in a GAAP EPS of $0.84 versus non-GAAP of $0.64.
Let's briefly shift our discussion to the balance sheet.
Several significant items which impacted it are listed on Slide 8.
We ended the quarter with $2.7 billion in cash in which about $313 million is held overseas.
We maintained a strong liquidity position in spite of over $750 million in total outflows related to share repurchases and our acquisition of Healthcare Solutions.
Our cash position was bolstered by the sale of our remaining CareFusion stake and $217 million in operating cash flow.
One item of note as you compare this year's operating cash flow to last year's figure keep in mind that we had a $144 million of benefit in last year's number related to CareFusion's ongoing operation for the two months that it was still part of Cardinal Health.
Now to answer a question that I suspect is in many of your minds let me reiterate our position regarding our capital deployment.
Our first priorities are to maintain our differentiated dividend and ensure we are investing appropriately in our organic capital expenditures.
In the latter regard we expect to invest in the range of $250 million this year about the same as last but the majority of that in IT-related processes and systems.
Beyond that we don't have a fixed formula.
Our goal is to ensure that we are positioning for sustainable competitive advantage and to create shareholder value.
Where those ends we will continue to evaluate both acquisitions in select areas and share repurchases.
We don't envision the paydown of our existing long-term debt balance in our current plans.
Now let's turn our discussion to fiscal '11 guidance.
As George mentioned we do only have one quarter behind us at this point so there's still plenty of year left.
However given our performance and our progress in key initiatives we become more confident in achieving the higher end of our previously announced non-GAAP EPS guidance range of $2.38 to $2.48.
Our overall revenue guidance remains unchanged at low single-digit growth despite a slightly more cautious view of Med/Surg market volumes.
Slide 10 outlines some of our key corporate expectations for the year.
Let me focus on the items in red which represent changes from our previous assumptions shared in our August call.
Our diluted weighted average shares outstanding are now projected to be approximately 352 million reflecting the timing and per share acquisition cost of the $250 million of repurchases that were completed in Q1.
Interest expense and other should be $110 million or so.
Our Q1 number is abnormally low due to the impact of interest rate swaps FX and deferred compensation gains realized in the quarter.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Cardinal Health Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Shaquana and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Ms.
Sally Curley Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed ma'am.
Thank you Shaquana and welcome to Cardinal Health's Second Quarter Fiscal 2011 Conference Call.
Today we will be making forward looking statements.
The matters addressed in these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to the SEC filings and the forward-looking statement slide at the beginning of the presentation which is found on the Investor page of our website for a description of risks and uncertainties.
In addition we will reference non-GAAP financial measures information about these measures is included at the end of the slide.
Before I turn the call over to Chairman and CEO George Barrett I'd like to remind you of a few upcoming investor conferences and events in which we will be webcasting.
Notably the UBS Annual Healthcare Conference on February 7 at 11:30 a.m.
at the Grand Hyatt in New York.
The Citigroup Global Healthcare Conference on March 1 at 8:30 a.m.
at the New York Hilton.
And the Barclays Capital Global Healthcare Conference on March 16 at 9:00 a.m.
at the Loews Hotel in Miami.
The details of these events are or will be posted on the IR section of our website at cardinalhealth.com.
So please make sure to visit the site often for updated information.
We look forward to seeing you at the upcoming events.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to George Barrett.
George? Thanks Sally.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on our second quarter call.
I'm really pleased with our operating performance during the second quarter and throughout the first half of fiscal 2011.
We reported revenues for the second quarter of $25.4 billion up 2% over the prior-year period and a non-GAAP EPS number of $0.69 up 21%.
Our operating performance in the quarter was driven by excellent results in our Pharmaceutical segment and we continued our disciplined management of expenses and working capital.
We also continued to strengthen our core businesses and position our company to deliver sustained growth.
Based on our performance in the first half of fiscal 2011 execution on our recent acquisitions and our best assessment of the current environment we are increasing our full year fiscal 2011 guidance and now expect our non-GAAP earnings to be in the range of $254 million to $260 million.
Jeff will walk you through our core assumptions during his remarks.
Now let me provide some color on each segment separately.
Our Pharma segment continued its momentum in the second quarter.
Revenue increased by 2% versus prior year primarily driven by a 6% growth in sales to non-bulk customers.
Segment profit increased 11% on strong generic growth as well as excellent performance within our Specialty Solutions business.
And we continue to solidify our relationships with our national retail chain customers highlighted by the early renewal of our contract with Walgreens that now extends through our fiscal 2013.
Since our last quarterly earnings call we also completed two acquisitions which we expect will contribute to earnings in the second half of our fiscal year and both of which will have important strategic implications.
Kinray which increases our retail independent pharmacy base by 40% adding balance to our customer mix and better positioning us for the emerging opportunities in generic drugs.
And Yong Yu which gives us a well-established and growing distribution player in China and provides us with a platform in one of the world's largest and fastest-growing healthcare markets.
The acquisition of Kinray gives us a strong position in New York and the surrounding states and adds more than 2 000 retail independent customers.
We have continued to serve them using the high-touch service model they have come to expect.
We have kept Kinray's New York distribution facility and have supported these customers with the same sales and customer service teams with which they are familiar.
I can report that these new customers have been supportive and that we have retained all primarily Kinray customers to date.
The Yong Yu transition has gone equally well.
Our teams are engaged and we are learning quickly from each other.
We see the opportunity for growth driven by powerful and healthy organic forces population size per capita income growth industry consolidation and a national policy which supports and is investing in access to healthcare for all citizens.
Aspects of the distribution model very similar from our U.S.
system but we share critical value drivers logistics expertise management of working capital and operational excellence all fundamental for us.
Further we are encouraged by the dialogue we are having with our upstream branded pharmaceutical supplier partners as well as medical device companies about their commitment to China and the opportunities to work together.
Both Yong Yu and Kinray represent strategic investments that help position us well for today and for tomorrow.
We are excited about their potential and we have now turned our attention to the execution of our plan to integrate these moves and to create value for our customers our supplier partners and our shareholders.
In the U.S.
we continue to enjoy tremendous success with the generic programs we put in place.
The team is executing exceptionally well in generic launches and in our comprehensive SOURCE program.
SOURCE revenue was up 31% in the second quarter versus the second quarter of last year.
Let me take a moment to touch on the so-called generic wave.
As we continue to get questions on this.
As you know the actual timing and profitability of generic launches is dependent on many factors including patent litigation settlement considerations exclusivity issues technical complexity of the drug the regulatory process and the therapeutic indication.
For many of those same reasons the actual value of the generic launch does not always follow the value of the branded product.
As we've been saying for some time we expect the flow of yearly generic value through this wave to be less dramatic in its upward and its downward trajectory than many observers were predicting.
In fact our own expectations for the period between 2011 and 2013 have been shifting somewhat in this general direction.
As we now look ahead we see a smoothing of the wave with our fiscal 2011 creating better generic opportunities fiscal 2012 projecting largely as we modeled and fiscal 2013 looking better than we originally forecast.
The net effect is that the change in generic launch value from our fiscal 2011 to 2012 and the change from 2012 to 2013 will be more moderated but the overall area under the curve is larger.
More broadly we have continued to grow our retail independent business and improved customer retention.
Our churn rate in this space continued at the very low level we saw in the first quarter and is the lowest we have seen since we began measuring churn many years ago.
And we continue to expand our offers to support branded products through their life cycle with a particular emphasis on educational programs such as a point of dispense communications to help ensure patient compliance to medication prescriptions.
I'm also very pleased with the progress we're making in our Specialty Solutions business since the acquisition of P4 back in July.
All lines of business in this group are showing positive momentum.
Our people our Pathways program a key component of our value proposition which brings together payors and practices is gaining momentum.
We signed three new agreements in the quarter and we are executing well for Highmark a new customer win that we announced in November with more than 60% of their community oncologists now enrolled in our Pathways program.
During the quarter we also launched Specialty distribution and our Specialty GPO called VitalSource.
Our Nuclear and Pharmacy Services business performed very well in the quarter posting double-digit profit growth versus the prior-year quarter.
Raw material supplies are stable and at normal levels.
However demand has not yet returned to pre-shortage levels.
The confidence campaign we initiated to rebuild demand and eliminate any lingering concerns around supply constraint is in full swing and began to yield positive results in the second quarter.
For positron emission tomography or the PET imaging modality we had strong performance in non-cardiovascular indications and expanded our supportive clinical trials for PET biotracers.
We are now working on clinical trials for 24 new compounds that support the more accurate diagnosis and treatment of disease.
Based on one of those trials Avid recently acquired by Lilly received positive input from an FDA advisory panel review last month for Florbetapir their biotracer for Alzheimer's.
This bodes well for molecular imaging and the pipeline of products that are currently being developed to help detect neurological disorders.
We are looking forward to working with Lilly to commercialize both manufacture and dispense this important diagnostic tool once it is FDA approved.
Turning to Medical.
This segment saw a revenue decline of 1% in the quarter primarily driven by previously disclosed customer losses from fiscal 2010 and the tough compare to a strong flu season in the prior quarter.
Segment profit was essentially flat for the second quarter.
The negative impact of commodity price increases was mitigated by cost reductions.
I like the way our Medical teams are competing our win-loss ratio has improved and the scale has fully tipped in favor of wins.
These new customers will begin to have a positive impact on revenue in the back half of the year.
Our preferred products central to our category management strategy are growing faster than the rest of our product portfolio.
We continue to build out product categories with Cardinal Health-branded products as well as select national brands.
For example in the quarter we launched the new Cardinal Health-branded patient hygiene line in the quarter with 50 new products and that is seeing good sales momentum.
We experienced a lighter-than-normal flu season in the first half of fiscal 2011 versus last year.
And that had a negative impact on our Canadian and Lab businesses in the second quarter.
Recent CBC reports indicate that flu activity is increasing and we anticipate a more normalized level for the balance of the flu season.
Our Ambulatory Care business performed well in the second quarter with revenue growth of 6.8%.
And the cross-selling effort we established with our Pharma segment in the second quarter of last year is beginning to contribute to the Ambulatory business.
We continue to be excited about our ability to grow our Ambulatory footprint.
We have invested in tools which improve the customer interface to make it easier for them to access our broad product line and our service offerings.
And we are well-positioned to serve the Post-acute Care segment as care delivery models evolve and different forms of coordinated care emerge.
We saw a slight improvement in surgical procedure volume at the end of calendar 2010.
While this is encouraging we continue to model this rather conservatively for the balance of the fiscal year given the disproportionate impact that procedure volume has on our Presource kitting business and our preferred product portfolio.
Our Medical Business Transformation is on track for national implementation in calendar 2012.
We continue to expect the contribution of margins from this effort in fiscal 2013 due to reduced complexity and improved sales.
This is a business transformation not simply an IT project.
It enables our channel and category management strategy and overall will make it easier for our customers to do business with Cardinal Health.
In summary we had another good quarter and a very solid first half and expect continued strong performance in the second half of fiscal 2011.
Although we continue to plan with a cautious eye given the slow pace of economic recovery we have a strong financial and operational foundation upon which to build.
We have made strategic investments to help position us for growth in the short medium and long term.
And we are extremely focused on executing against our plans in order to deliver value on a sustainable basis to our customers and to our shareholders.
As the business behind healthcare we are well-positioned to play a significant role in this fast-changing landscape.
And while healthcare reform will require some retuning we continue to believe that care in the future will be more accessible better coordinated safer and more evidence based whether this come through legislative change or market forces.
As we continue to focus on our strategic priorities financial discipline and meticulous execution I'm increasingly excited about that future and confident in our ability to perform.
Before I hand the call over to Jeff I would like to thank our employees who have been dealing with the impact of the ferocious storm system that has been paralyzing much of the country this week.
They've been working incredibly hard many of them virtually around-the-clock to get medical supplies and pharmaceuticals to our customers.
And I'd like to take this opportunity to acknowledge their efforts.
And with that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks George and hello everyone.
I'm happy to be discussing another strong quarter of results and continued progress across our businesses.
Let me begin my remarks today by expanding on some financial trends and drivers in the second quarter.
Then I'll try to add more color around our updated fiscal 2011 guidance including some of our key expectations from a corporate and segment standpoint.
I'll start with Slide 4.
During the quarter we grew our non-GAAP EPS by 21% to $0.69 leveraging 2% revenue and 5.5% non-GAAP operating earnings growth.
Both gross margin rate and non-GAAP operating margin rate expanded versus Q2 of last year up eight basis points and five basis points respectively.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were up a little under 3% really driven by the expenses added to the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures and partially offset by cost reductions including the year-on-year impact of certain compensation items.
I should note that we expect our total operating expenses to be noticeably higher in the second half of the year as we fully absorb the recent acquisitions.
Interest and other expense was favorable to our expectations than last year driven by favorability-realized interest rate swaps our deferred compensation program and foreign exchange.
All of which for forecast purposes we do not assume to continue in the back half of the year.
As a reminder the deferred compensation gain the $3 million recorded in Q2 within other income is offset one-for-one by an expense recorded to the operating expenses line.
I have mentioned previously that our non-GAAP tax rate may fluctuate quarterly due to unique items affecting certain periods.
This is the case in Q2.
Our tax rate this quarter was 32.8% below our expectations for the full year and last year's rate of 38.5%.
This abnormally low rate is attributable to discrete items in the quarter which net to an approximately $17 million benefit.
This includes favorable settlements of prior-year state tax audits which allowed us to release reserves for state tax contingencies.
It also includes a reduction in the deferred tax valuation allowance related to new legislation in Puerto Rico.
Despite this favorability during the quarter you will note that we are maintaining our previous non-GAAP tax rate guidance of approximately 37% for the full year as we expect a few discrete items to increase the tax rate during the second half.
I'll touch on these items in more detail a few minutes.
Finally we continue to benefit from the $450 million in share repurchases we executed last summer.
With our share count at about 351 million diluted average shares outstanding versus 361 million in last year's Q2.
Before shifting the discussion to the segment results I would like to make a few comments related to the asset management figures shown on this slide.
First our operating cash flow of $144 million in the quarter may look light when compared to the prior year.
But it's important to keep in mind that last year's Q2 figure reflects net working capital reductions that generated nearly $400 million of operating cash flow for that period.
Although we continue to be very focused on balance sheet efficiency with the goal of further reducing our net working capital days as we've indicated in the past we don't necessarily expect as dramatic as the improvements as we saw last fiscal year.
Also note while there is some volatility within the componens of net working capital days due to our recently completed acquisitions and the impact of customer buying patterns in the prior year I'm pleased to report that net working capital days are down 0.4 days versus last year.
Before I move on to segment performance let me touch briefly on Slide 5 which is going to serve to update you on the relative composition of our business segments based on most recent information.
As you may recall in fiscal 2010 our Pharma segment made up approximately 2/3 of segment profit.
In fiscal 2011 that number is closer to 75% given the contribution of the P4 Yong Yu and Kinray acquisitions all of which are reported within the Pharma segment as well as reflecting the strong performance across the Pharma business.
Now let's move to Q2 segment performance referring primarily to Slides 6 and 7 and starting with the Pharma segment.
Revenue in the segment increased 2% driven by a 6% increase in sales to non-bulk customers.
Sales to bulk customers declined 2% attributable to a shift in shipments to certain national chain customers from bulk to non-bulk as well as the impact of certain branded products converting to generics.
Within the category of non-bulk I also want to point out that revenues from retail independents continue to grow at a rate above the market in this important class of trade.
The Pharma segment profit margin rate increased by 11 basis points compared to the prior year's Q2 driven by an increase in non-bulk margins and the continued mix shift towards non-bulk customers.
In addition to the continued success from our generic sales and sourcing programs we also saw a greater-than-expected benefit from new item generic launches during the quarter as well as an overall generic deflation rate that was below historic norms.
Excellent performance in Specialty Solutions was also a positive driver.
P4 had a good Q2 across multiple lines of business with the three new Pathways agreements we announced at our December Analyst Day contributing to the performance as well as strong results from P4's data analytics services.
Our Nuclear and Pharmacy Services business performed well in the quarter showing year-over-year double-digit profit growth.
Although demand for a technetium-based products has yet to rebound to pre-shortage levels.
Volume was stronger than we expected in late November and December.
And importantly our PET business continues to show strong growth.
Net-net the Pharma segment had an excellent quarter which resulted in an increase in segment profit of 11% to $289 million.
Now turning to our Medical segment.
Revenue for the segment declined by 1% to $2.2 billion.
We are still lacking some previously disclosed customer losses from fiscal 2010 and the benefit from several new customer wins are just beginning to layer in.
Importantly we expect sales volume from our wins to begin to fully offset and then outweigh our losses in the second half of the year.
Also similar to Q1 the tough compare against an early and strong flu season in fiscal 2010 negatively impacted Q2 sales growth by $22 million.
Our Ambulatory business a continuing focus for us grew its revenue by nearly 7% during the quarter.
Medical segment profit remained relatively flat at $102 million as cost reduction offset the combined year-on-year impact of headwinds due to commodity prices and the flu.
Specifically commodity prices impacted our current period cost of goods sold by about $18 million versus last year.
And the flu comparison was worth approximately $4 million.
Combined these two items negatively impacted segment profit growth by approximately 21 percentage points.
I'd also like to mention that surgical procedures are down on a year-over-year basis which impacts our highest margin operating room products.
Although there were some positive trends in this regard towards the latter part of the quarter.
Sequentially segment profit dollars and margin percent improved considerably versus Q1 of this year.
Overall despite some headwinds that Medical business has faced in the first half of the year we continue to gain momentum and believe we are well positioned for long-term growth.
Now let me turn to Slide 8.
And although I won't go through the schedule in detail I will highlight the item that accounted for the largest difference between our GAAP and non-GAAP EPS numbers in Q2 approximately $16 million in after-tax acquisition-related costs.
Consistent with our usual practice these costs have been excluded from our non-GAAP earnings.
The remaining items such as litigation charges and other costs related to the CareFusion spinoff amount to approximately a $0.03 reduction.
Last year we saw a net after-tax benefit from onetime or unusual items of $23 million or $0.07 driven by a $20 million after-tax gains from sales of CareFusion stock and $16 million of after-tax income from an insurance recovery.
These positive and unique items from last year significantly impact the year-on-year GAAP earnings comparison.
Now I'll briefly shift our discussion to our cash and liquidity position.
Several significant items which impacted it are listed on the Slide 9.
We ended the quarter with $1.3 billion in cash of which $148 million is held overseas.
There was no balance outstanding on any of our available short-term credit facilities.
We maintained a strong liquidity position in spite of more than $1.7 billion in total outflows related to our acquisitions of Kinray and Yong Yu.
Also note that our cash position was enhanced by the $500 million of debt we opportunistically issued in December a portion of which we plan to use to repay a $220 million debt maturity in February.
One final item of note.
During the quarter we also invested in health and maturity fixed-income debt securities.
With maturity dates ranging from seven months to two years.
These items have a cost basis of $139 million as of the end of Q2 and are classified as other assets on the balance sheet.
In other words they are not included within cash and equivalents.
Now let's turn our discussion to FY '11 guidance starting with Slide 11.
As George mentioned given the solid underlying performance of our businesses in the first half of the year as well as the anticipated contribution from the recent acquisitions we are increasing our full year guidance range for non-GAAP EPS to $254 million to $260 million from the previous range of $238 million to $248 million.
Our overall revenue guidance remains at low-single digit growth although it's higher than our previous expectations due to the inclusion of Kinray and Yong Yu into our most recent forecast.
Slide 12 outlines some of our key corporate expectations for the year.
Let me start by focusing on the items in red which represent changes from our previous assumptions shared on our October call.
We now expect that interest expense and other to net to $90 million reflecting some of the benefits we saw in the first half of the year as well as the impact from our recent debt issuance.
We're increasing our capital expenditures forecast to approximately $290 million due to our recent acquisitions and organic investments we're making to enhance our strategic position and spur future growth.
And finally let me revisit our FY '11 effective tax rate guidance of approximately 37%.
Although there's always some inherent difficulty in forecasting discrete items that affect our tax rate we are confirming our prior guidance given state tax legislation that has already passed in Q3 and other pending state or foreign tax law changes that are likely to be passed which would increase our tax rate for the second half of the year.
Now I'll spend a few minutes going through some of the segment-specific assumptions in more detail starting with just a few items related to the Pharma business on Slide 13.
Given the strong first half of the year from a generic launch standpoint we now expect a positive earnings effect from generic launches versus fiscal '10.
It is possible that we may have a minimal LIFO charge related to recent acquisitions but our forecast assumes that to be $10 million or less at this point.
Integration of our Healthcare Solutions or P4 acquisition remains on track.
Finally we expect the Kinray and Yong Yu acquisitions collectively to contribute $0.02 to $0.03 in fiscal 2011.
Turning to Slide 14 in the Medical segment.
Our guidance now includes an increased negative impact on cost of goods sold from commodity price movements.
Given the sustained and more elevated prices for oil latex and cotton.
You may recall on August 2010 call I mentioned that we expected this impact to be more than $40 million.
Our guidance now includes an expectation of closer to $60 million for the full year.
Thus far in the first half of fiscal 2011 we've realized about $33 million of that negative impact.
Finally as we lapped difficult comparisons for both flu and previous customer losses we expect the Medical segment to benefit in the second half of the year aided by significant new hospital system customer wins.
To sum up my remarks let me say that I am very pleased with the overall performance in the quarter and we expect to continue this momentum in the second half of the year and we feel good about fiscal 2011 laying a solid foundation for our fiscal 2012.
With that let me turn it over to our operator to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Ross Muken representing Deutsche Bank.
In terms of George your comments early on regarding the generic cycle that we're about to enter towards the end of this calendar year you suggested this sort of the smoothing out affect.
In terms of the different puts and takes or what's changed bigger picture in terms of variables in your model that's led sort of to this conclusion what are the sort of key points you're looking at because from obviously our side of things we've thought we've understood sort of the trajectory for some time or I'm just curious to that sort of changing assumptions? Let me try to answer that although I'm not sure our assumptions frankly have changed all that much.
But I think partly I would argue that the wave has already started and even if you look back '10 was larger than most people thought.
One thing that I've been saying for some time is that predicting the timing of launches can be difficult and you know this well.
And that can tie to all the complexities associated not only with patent law but also at the technology and the complexity associated with many of the drugs that are being launched during this period.
And so you have this shifting tide a little bit as it relates to when a product is going to be launched.
So by and large we've seen is that '10 was larger than we would have originally modeled.
'11 has been stronger.
'12 is about as we modeled it.
Again these are our fiscal years and for us and our product line.
And '13 looks a bit better than we have seen.
So it is more of a rounded shape and it's really driven by those dynamics.
Sometimes it's very difficult to predict as you grow out years and particularly by quarter when a product is going to launch.
So it's really the dynamics I mentioned complexity patent issues and even the nature of the drug.
What is a small branded drug can turn out to be a significant generic opportunity as would a very large branded drug can turn out to be relatively small and have a competitive generic opportunity.
And so we just have to take all these into account.
I know many of you do that and I guess that's the best I can summarize.
And maybe Jeff quickly in terms of the Medical business you sort of outlined the inflation on commodity prices and sort of what that's doing for the business.
To what degree or how long does it typically take to start to maybe recapture some price there on certain products where you're able to pass it through? Or as a whole is that not something historically you've been very successful with? Good question Ross and I'm not going to comment specifically on customer pricing but I will say whenever we have increases in the cost of our goods we look for opportunity to either mitigate those costs pass them on or pass them back.
And that happens right away and we're continually in a state of looking for ways to reduce our exposure or minimize the impact.
So I wouldn't say it's necessarily in reaction to any particular inquiries.
It's sort of an ongoing part of how we try to manage the business and reduce the overall volatility of the business.
Your next question comes from the line of Glen Santangelo representing Crdit Suisse.
George I just had a couple of quick questions on generics.
First your SOURCE generics program was up 31% this quarter.
What really drives that? I mean was it just generic launches that happened within the last six months or was it -- now that you're selling some generics to some customers that you historically were not? And so I'm just trying to figure out how does that number get to be so big? Glen it's really a combination of both.
We're always thrilled at the opportunity to launch a new drug.
But we actually got very solid contribution from existing products.
And we've talked a little bit about this both expanding to new customers but also doing better with each customer.
And so I would say net-net it's a really positive combination of those two factors.
It's not just about new launches.
Is there any type of customer that's coming back to you that used to buy direct that's now saying "Hey you know what why don't I just buy from you guys?" I would say it's probably less of people sort of shifting their basic strategy than our performing better for each account.
The other thing that I probably should note also that a dynamic and I think Jeff mentioned it is that the deflation rate also was a little bit less than we've seen.
I would describe that largely as more event driven than necessarily systemic.
But we certainly saw and what I mean by that is a product let's say that had exclusivity if we model to lose exclusivity or to be competitive at a certain number of competitors and that dynamic was different.
So deflation rate was a little bit lower contribution with existing customers' expansion and some new customers particularly in the independent retail side and the value of new launches.
And that was my follow-up question is the comments around that generic price deflation I mean basically one of your primary competitors earlier in the week on their call sort of suggested that they are actually starting to see even some levels of inflation on generics.
So maybe I misheard that comment.
But I'm just kind of curious if you could give us an update in terms of what you're seeing in terms of generic pricing which it just suggested that maybe what happened this quarter was more event driven? But has there been any change from the historical trend in terms of generic pricing? By saying event driven I don't want to make it specifically about the quarter I think it's a more long-lasting issue.
But really what I'm describing the primary drivers are how you see big products moving from a less competitive to a more competitive stage.
And also what happens when you have disruptions in the market.
We've had that in a lot of categories particularly in injectable drugs and that has created less deflation.
And as one of our competitors mentioned we have seen a couple of cases of inflation.
But I'm not necessarily going to describe this as a sort of broad-based systemic trend but rather it seems to be tied to certain dynamics.
Now again it's not that there may not be some broader trend but I'm not sure the data is completely there yet to make that statement.
But certainly it's driven by shortages that we've seen the market disruption and certainly some exclusivity dynamic.
You sort of said in your prepared remarks that in December you started to see an uptick in surgeries and maybe admissions have gotten a little bit better.
Do you think that's people trying to beat deductible resets? Or has that really continued into January? Maybe there's something a little bit more cyclical going on.
It's hard to answer yet.
And I think we'd probably -- again we're going to take a cautious view on this going forward.
We were encouraged certainly to see the uptick but I think it's probably too early to say this is a trend.
And it's probably too early to be able to completely attribute cost.
Our hope is that some general recovery in the economy is having people feeling optimistic and more ready to do the things that they might have done a couple of years ago from a utilization standpoint.
But we'll continue to model with a bit of a cautious eye right now.
And your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci representing Lazard Capital Markets.
This is Colleen Lang on for Tom.
Jeff just a quick housekeeping item I was wondering could you give us the bulk and the non-bulk margins in the quarter? So the rate for Pharma sales to non-bulk customers was 2.16% for the quarter which was up 18 basis points versus last year's Q2.
However I just said previously the quarter-by-quarter comparison to us at least for these margin rates is really less relevant than a longer-term trend comparison.
So let me try to give you some of the longer-term information.
Year-to-date for the first two quarters of the year the rate for non-bulk is 2.17% which is 29 basis points favorable to the first half of fiscal '10 and 24 basis points favorable to the full year rate we experienced for fiscal 2010.
And for bulk customers the year-to-date rate is 28 basis points which is about 12 basis points favorable to the first half of fiscal '10 and one basis point favorable to the full year rate for fiscal '10.
And then you have the $750 million share repurchase program do you have any buybacks assumed in your guidance or how should we think about cash flow deployment here? As we said previously our guidance for fiscal 2011 assumed $250 million of gross repurchases.
We've completed that for the year so our guidance does not assume any additional repurchases this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Jones representing Goldman Sachs.
George on the retail independent front even before Kinray you guys had talked about making progress in growing this customer base ahead of the market.
I know you made comments on that again today.
I guess maybe could you talk about what's driving this above-market growth? And then beyond that as it stands today with Kinray can you maybe give us a sense of where you think your market share is of the overall retail independent market? Yes.
So I'll start by saying I probably will not provide market share at this point.
I would tell you that our market share in the New York metropolitan and extended area was quite quite small.
So we're really pleased to be able to sort of increase that.
But let me go back now to the first part of your question Bob.
A lot of this is about a dedicated focus to growing this business that we've really been really plugging away at for nearly two years to really rebuild our organization the training of our sales people the actual organizational design the service offerings that we provide to independent retailers.
It's really really quite substantial.
So I think it's been about focus it's been about very tailored programs almost strategies of one as we like to call it for each of these customers.
So think of each one of these community pharmacies as its own business.
So we've done a lot of things we put together I think I've mentioned our sales college where we have our sales people in for training.
Great execution there and trending on generics.
So I think our programs are really among the industry leaders and with that extra dedicated focus from our team and our leadership I think we've been able to really create value for the customers.
And then just one quick one on Specialty Solutions.
In the press release and in your prepared remarks you mentioned excellent performance from this business.
I mean can you give us a sense of how you measure success in this business long term? Is it really just the signing of some of the deals we've seen lately with the Blues and AmeriHealth or is it at some point really measuring this on how deep of a participation you have on the actual distribution channel? Well it's a number of things.
Certainly over any period it's about contribution to our earnings and that business is already beginning to do that and we're pleased with that.
Part of it for us is building out a presence in the community to allow us to compete in markets where we just didn't have standing in the past.
And I think our positioning in oncology a little bit of an increased position in some other therapeutic areas is beginning to happen.
And so in a sense the covered lives associated with some of these Pathways programs is really a little bit of a surrogate marker to know that we're actually beginning to play and play effectively.
We are beginning to pick up some interest in our distribution.
We've signed our -- I think you've heard them say in November our first customers during this past quarter the distribution will be part of our expectation.
And we are at early stages there certainly but expect that to be something we'll measure and we intend to compete effectively in.
Your next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser representing Morgan Stanley.
First on the bulk margins Jeff I think you mentioned that they were 20 basis points and that they're up about 12 basis points versus first half of '10.
And it seems that that's despite the fact that you had some contract renewals between that period and now? So can you talk a little bit about the initiatives that you have in place that helped drive the expansion in bulk margins despite the price hits that you are seeing under renewal? I'm not going to comment specifically on the pricing in the renewals Ricky.
And I will say a lot of the quarter-to-quarter variance that we get in bulk is due to timing of orders timing of branded price increases in a particular quarter.
And I would think quite honestly there aren't a lot of specific initiatives that we undertake to influence the bulk rate other than what we do in our normal business to begin with which is to maximize sales and maximize the efficiency of our operations et cetera.
But I wouldn't say we have a particular focus on the bulk business.
Most of our initiatives from a sales and operational perspective are focused on the non-bulk part of the business where we have the greatest day-to-day influence and to the extent they carry over to bulk great.
But I wouldn't necessarily say there's specific initiatives to point to there.
Ricky again just to qualify to make sure to jump on here.
Obviously both part of the business is important to us but again I think Jeff's talking about the specific efficiency initiatives and programs that we have really across both our bulk and our non-bulk businesses.
And then off the 6% increase in the non-bulk revenue contribution can you give us color on what was the Kinray contribution? Kinray contribution for the quarter was very little.
We had basically a week of sales so it was roughly immaterial to our financials.
The next questioning comes from the line of Larry Marsh representing Barclays Capital.
George thanks for your education efforts to make us a bit -- or tell me a piece of business.
Maybe if I can elaborate a little bit on how we should be thinking about your SOURCE and your non-SOURCE generics programs.
I know that in the past you sometimes talked about overall revenue growth in generics I don't know if you had that for the quarter.
And I know you don't talk about how much of your total book of generics as SOURCE but could you describe how much growth -- how would you describe the profitability between the two businesses and how much you are thinking about increasing your total penetration of your generic business to SOURCE over the next couple of years? Let me start Larry it's a really good question and then I'm actually going turn it to Jeff who can probably provide a little bit of the detail on it.
The SOURCE program as you know for us is our preferred generic program.
It's a very high priority for us.
This is the business in which we offer customers the opportunity to essentially have us be their generic arm.
We source the products with the suppliers we provide sort of a what we think is a differentiated value proposition downstream to those customers.
Those tend to be more profitable on average than the other components of our generic mix.
But we certainly have other generic business there is product that we sell on contract there is product that we sell to hospitals there is product that we sell to warehousing and non-warehousing chains that may be on some different kind of contract.
And so we do have some components of our generic business that are not the preferred program.
But I would say that a good proportion of our business is the preferred program and it's a high priority for us and we're really pleased with the progress there.
And did you give us the total revenue growth for generics this quarter? This is Jeff overall revenue growth for generics was 13%.
And they why was that? It sounds like anecdotally with Kinray now about a month and a half under your belt you're feeling good about the initial indication of customer attention I was curious any other data points around this great asset? And how quickly does that customer base -- is that customer base able to switch into SOURCE? I think the integration in a case like this is actually relatively straightforward because remember that we're not changing the distribution platform.
We're keeping largely the model that these customers have been used to working with.
And so in a way the integration is rather straightforward.
The part that you're describing which is integration of generics is already happening.
But that certainly didn't happen in that first week.
But we think that that should be a great opportunity for those customers and a good opportunity for us.
And your next question comes from the line of Helene Wolk representing Sanford Bernard (sic) [Sanford Bernstein] This is Andrew Weisgall on for Helene.
I just have a quick question about your Medical Distribution segment.
It seems that you guys were able to cut a lot of cost in the quarter to overcome the pretty material commodity headwind.
So I'm just wondering how to think about the cost going forward essentially is this a permanently reduced level or due really to the more onetime items? I would say it was probably a combination of both.
I mean we recognize that in our business in order to be part of the solution to the supply-chain efficiencies that we need to be continually focused on the efficiency of our own organization and a complete supply chain.
So focusing on bringing down expenses and getting more efficient is an ongoing part of the business.
So I'm hopeful that the sorts of reductions that we took in in the first half of this year will be a permanent part of our cost base going forward now.
That's not to say that a couple of specific things that we did in the quarter but I would generally view most of our cost reduction is just that we undertake to be sort of a permanent part of our structuring going forward.
By the way I want to come back to a question that was asked earlier about bulk and non-bulk because I know there's always a bit of a confusion on this issue with respect our large national chains I know some of you know this but I just wanted to be clear that our sales to large national chains consist of both bulk and non-bulk sales.
That to the extent that we deliver directly to the pharmacies those are considered non-bulk sales to the extent that we deliver directly to their warehouses those are considered bulk sales.
I just want to continue to provide the clarification to people.
Your next question comes from the line of A.J.
Rice representing Susquehanna Financial Group.
LLLP</strong> On the guidance it sounds like Kinray and Yong Yu combined are sort of $0.02 to $0.03 in the back half of the year.
Is that sort of reflective of the run rate that they came online for you guys with or are you assuming any meaningful change in their business mix or synergies in that number? And then is there any update for sort of the long term I know it's still early but have you refined in any way your thoughts about what they might contribute long term? First of all I would say what we're seeing for the remainder of fiscal '11 from Yong Yu is primarily what they brought to the table.
For Kinray I would say we're starting to see some of the synergies that we expected to bring to the table materializing in the second half of the year.
I would say a good bulk of what they're contributing is what they brought to the table.
By the way related to acquisitions just an update on intangibles because I've touched on that previously when we announced our three acquisitions in fiscal '11.
I expect the total amount of intangible amortization related to the three acquisitions next year to be somewhere in the $85 million to $95 million range for the full year which is fairly consistent with the early preliminary guidance that we had given you at the time we announced each of those acquisitions.
So again to provide that input.
In terms of our expectations though overall for the contribution I would say what we've said previously is largely still the case for each of the three acquisitions.
LLLP</strong> And then just maybe on -- you had complimented your own employees about how they managed through the weather.
I wonder it's a very short-term oriented question but have you factored any weather impact in your updated guidance? And maybe give us a flavor for whether it's been any meaningful impact to you.
I would say the range of guidance that we've given would reflect in any financial variability related to the weather that we've seen.
It's too early to say regarding any specific impact.
I will say as always our team is doing a great job of responding and I have to admit from a personal standpoint it always boggles my mind how good we are at fighting through issues like this and meeting our customers' needs during times when much of the country has shutdown we still manage to get through with I think is a huge testament to our people.
It was just the last couple of weeks we've got two different storms.
And so it's very early to sort of judge exactly how we've come through this week.
But last week we got the results folks did an incredible job and we were tracking it all of us through the night.
And I think our customers were hopefully appreciative of the work that our teams did.
And your next question comes from the line of George Hill representing Citigroup.
George just to circle back to your comments on generics and the flow of generics through 2013.
You talked about it less being dramatic and its upward and downward trajectory.
I'm wondering if we could dig into that a little bit.
When you talk about less dramatic in the impact are we talking about how it impacts the revenue line? How it impacts the operating earnings line?  I guess just some more color about how you guys have thought about modeling that.
Sure.
Again I'm going to be careful because we're not -- I wanted to try to help create a little bit of shape and it's really about the shape of the curve.
By and large what we're talking about is the margin impact for us.
And so that again primarily the big movement here is more about I would say margin than revenue.
And then just quick follow-up on Kinray now that you guys have had that business in-house a little bit longer -- anything new that you guys have wondered and surprises that we should know about? No actually you always hope it is as it appears to be when you do your work and the due diligence when you get to the finish line.
And our teams are feeling very good about the way it's playing out and the team there in New York is doing a great job.
Our folks here are really pleased with the ways it's unfolding.
And your next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette representing UBS.
A few question on the Medical segment.
You guys highlighted the significant new customer wins on the slides.
So I guess two questions on that.
First were there some additional wins over the past month or two over and above the ones that were discussed last fall? And then also just generally speaking are the wins tied to better penetration within GPOs or are these separate exclusive customer wins? Just any feel for that as well.
Just a quick perspective on it.
I think we've really clarified the value of our proposition as we started to roll out our category and our channel strategy.
And I think the broad range of offerings that we can provide every institution at this point is looking at a changed world and looking for companies that can offer solutions and I believe that our team has done a great job in demonstrating that and that I think part of that explanation.
Now Jeff do you want to add anything to it? We've talked previously about both winning Baylor about the expansion of the relationship with HPG about winning a large research-based IDN.
And those are beginning to layer in really right now and will affect us in the second half of the year.
I would say on top of those we've had a couple of other notable wins as well that we haven't disclosed publicly.
But I would say generally the track record over the past six months has been very positive.
And your next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby representing Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Jeff did you break out an actual organic growth number for the quarter backing out the three deals? Backing out the three deals? No I didn't.
But I would say Kinray and Yong Yu had virtually no impact on the growth rate.
And no we haven't backed out for P4 probably because we look at P4 as part of the entire Specialty Solutions business within the Pharma segment which includes our legacy business whose actually performed quite well for the quarter.
But we haven't broken out the impact of P4 specifically.
And just the working capital accounts.
They have some seasonality to them obviously but what did acquisitions do to kind of receivables payables inventories? Any insight on that for us? It negatively impacted working capital for the quarter for a couple of reasons.
In part because we had the full balance sheet at the end of the quarter but not the full income statement for the period that we measure necessarily.
Secondly as you would expect Yong Yu has longer networking capital days than you would typically see in the U.S.
And I would say for both those reasons they negatively impacted the days and I would expect it would be a slight increase to our days going forward as well.
Your next question comes from the line of John Kreger representing William Blair.
This is actually Robbie Fatta in for John.
How should we think about additional acquisitions and how they factor in to your expectations over the next few years? Would you be more focused in the U.S.
or China? And if it's the U.S.
which segment would you be more focused on? Robbie it's George.
Let me start it first and most important is we referred right now in a period where we're really quite focused on executing and making sure that we deliver value from our core business and from those moves that we've made in the last six months so it's very important to us and I want to emphasize it to you.
I'd also say this we know that this is a dynamic environment certainly in the U.S.
and outside.
I hope that we have an organization that is mindful of those things and is really committed to creating long-term and sustained value from our business model to our shareholders.
And over that stretch to the extent that we see opportunities whether those are here or perhaps in another market we'll certainly evaluate.
But again I wouldn't steer you to one particular area.
I would say this we've tried to make sure that the moves that we make are close to home in a business sense and that whatever we do we can bring value to.
And that is a very important lens for us.
So I again that's probably as much shape as I can give you.
I think an added perspective to China and Yong Yu is right now we're focused on integrating that business and growing them organically.
However at the time we announced the deal we recognized that over time doing certain smaller tuck-in acquisitions to gain greater regional presence in certain high-growth areas which was probably something we would very much look at and I would say that remains the case.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman and CEO Mr.
George Barrett for closing numerous.
Thanks Shaquana.
Let me just close by saying we've had a very strong first half and we certainly look forward to the future with optimism.
I want to thank all of you for joining us on today's call and hope you have a good day.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Cardinal Health Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Luanne and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
Now I would like to turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Sally Curley Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Ms.
Curley please proceed.
Thank you Luanne and welcome to Cardinal Health's Third Quarter Fiscal 2011 Conference Call.
Today we will be making forward looking statements.
The matters addressed in these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to the SEC filings and the forward-looking statement slide at the beginning of the presentation which can be found on the Investor page of our website for a description of those risks and uncertainties.
In addition we will reference non-GAAP financial measures information about these measures is included at the end of the slide.
Before I turn the call over to Chairman and CEO George Barrett I'd like to remind you of a few upcoming investor conferences and events in which we will be webcasting notably the Deutsche Bank 36th Healthcare Conference on May 2 in Boston the Bank of America Merrill Lynch 2011 Healthcare Conference on May 10 in Las Vegas the Stanford Bernstein 27th Annual Strategic Decisions Conference on June 1 in New York the Goldman Sachs 32nd Annual Global Healthcare Conference on June 7 in California and the William Blair 31st Annual Growth Stock Conference on June 14 in Chicago.
The details of these events are or will be posted on the IR section of our website at cardinalhealth.com.
So please make sure to visit the site often for that updated information.
We look forward to seeing some of you at these upcoming events.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to George Barrett.
George? Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on our third quarter call.
I'm very pleased with our performance this quarter which continued the momentum we built in the first half of fiscal 2011.
We reported revenues for the third quarter of $26.1 billion up 7% over the prior year period and a non-GAAP EPS number of $0.75 up 23%.
This excellent overall performance was led by our Pharmaceutical segment fueled by our Pharmaceutical distribution business and boosted by the contribution from acquisitions we completed earlier in the fiscal year.
These 3 strategic investments: P4 giving us a presence in oncology and specialty Pharmaceutical services; Kinray dramatically increasing our footprint in community pharmacy; and Yong Yu establishing a new platform for growth in China one of the largest healthcare markets in the world are already creating value for us.
Our emphasis on execution margin expansion and disciplined management of working capital is continuing to bear fruit.
We have further enhanced the customer experience and strengthened our competitive position across all of our businesses and in new areas that help us position for future growth.
Based on our performance in the first 3 quarters of fiscal 2011 we are increasing our full year fiscal 2011 guidance and now expect our non-GAAP earnings to be in the range of $2.61 to $2.67.
Jeff will walk you through our core assumptions during his remarks.
Now let me provide some color on each segment separately.
Our Pharma segment continued its excellent performance in the third quarter.
Revenue increased by 7% and segment profit increased by 25% versus prior year.
Including strong results from our Pharmaceutical distribution business and the contribution from P4 Kinray and Yong Yu.
Let me take a moment to discuss our Kinray and Yong Yu acquisitions.
In both cases their integration has progressed swiftly and seamlessly.
Customer retention at Kinray is very high.
In fact since the acquisition we have slightly increased our overall base in the New York metropolitan area.
And as we've said in the past we continue to support these customers using the same service model and with the same sales and customer service team with which they are familiar.
Similarly the Yong Yu integration is going exceedingly well.
Yong Yu's overall growth in the third quarter versus its performance in the same period last year is strong largely driven by the local direct distribution business a key area of focus for us.
In addition to the growth potential and distribution we continue to be excited about the opportunities to offer many of the products and services we have developed in the U.S.
to providers in China.
Healthcare providers in both countries face similar challenges increasing access driving efficiencies in the supply chain reducing costs and improving quality and we can help.
As you know Jeff is leading our China Advisory Council and he will provide additional color on Yong Yu in his remarks.
U.S.
Pharmaceutical distribution did extremely well in the quarter driven by excellent performance in our Generics program solid performance under our branded manufacturer agreements and strong sales in our retail base.
Sales under our SOURCE Generic program increased by 32% with overall generic sales up by 23%.
Thus far our fiscal 2011 has been an outstanding year for generics both in terms of our based generics performance as well as the number and the value of new launches.
Let me say that we expect our fiscal 2012 to be relatively comparable to fiscal 2011 in terms of newly and recently launched generic value.
All in all we're increasingly well positioned to drive value in our generic program and to satisfy the growing demand for generic drugs in fiscal 2012 and beyond.
We continue to build out our specialty platforms further enhancing our tools that help providers manage their practices more efficiently expanding our biopharma relationship and extending the reach of our P4 Pathways programs with both providers and payers.
And we are making good progress in each of these areas.
We are particularly pleased with the rate of adoption in our Pathways program and the quality of the next generation of our EOB 1 [Explanation of Benefits] practice management software.
While uptick in specialty distribution will take some time we have recently signed a number of new agreements with providers and manufacturers.
And we look forward to the potential here.
And our nuclear business continues to work hard on the confidence campaign we initiated at the beginning of this fiscal year to rebuild demand and eliminate lingering concerns around supply constraints.
In each of the past 3 months we have seen a steady sequential increase in procedure volume an encouraging sign although demand has not returned to pre-shortage level.
In the positron emission tomography or PET space we continue to work with our pharmaceutical and research partners on what is now 25 new compounds in various stages of development whereby even more accurate diagnosis and effective treatment of disease.
To support our expanding work with innovators and the science of molecular imaging and technology and to accelerate the commercialization process of these new imaging agents we will be launching a state-of-the-art facility called the Center for the Advancement of Molecular Imaging in Phoenix in June.
This facility will house our scientists engineers and researchers will focus on enabling our partners in the accelerated development of novel new array of pharmaceuticals.
Turning to Medical.
This segment saw a revenue increase of 5% in the quarter primarily from higher sales to existing customers.
The Medical team has continued to compete well and to improve our win-loss ratio.
Providers throughout the country are looking for ways to be able to compete and thrive in a health system undergoing significant change.
For some of our recent wins we see signs in our ability to provide broad categories of products across multiple channels is a source of competitive advantage and we believe that our value proposition is increasingly resonant with customers.
We are recently awarded a 20-month contract with the U.S.
Department of Defense for the distribution of medical supplies.
As was announced by the DOD the contract also has an option for 2 additional 20-month contract periods for a total of 5 years.
We expect to see the positive incremental impact of this win in the back half of fiscal 2012.
Segment profit in Medical segment decreased slightly by less than 1% versus the prior year period but was up sequentially versus the second quarter.
This is solid performance given the continued impact from commodity price increases.
As we indicated last quarter the full fiscal 2011 impact from commodity prices on our cost of goods is likely to be approximately $60 million.
Of course we continue to work to find ways to mitigate this impact to our sourcing product design and with the customer as well as through careful management of expenses.
As you are well aware oil latex and cotton prices have remained high in recent months and we do expect that we'll have to wrestle with this headwind for sometime into the next fiscal year.
Our preferred products continue to be an important part of our category management strategy.
We launched new private brand products in 2 important categories in the quarter and found a number of new commercialization agreements with national brand suppliers.
We should note however that surgical procedure volumes remain somewhat sluggish and has dampened segment revenue and profit growth in the quarter.
The Ambulatory Care and lab channels performed very well outpacing industry growth in their respective channels and each posting double-digit revenue growth in the quarter.
In summary we had a terrific quarter and I'm very confident in our ability to execute going forward.
Our people continue to demonstrate their commitment to our customers and to high performance.
On one final note I'd like to publicly thank Jon Borschow for his service with Cardinal Health.
As many of you know Jon is the founder of our Puerto Rico business which we acquired in 2008.
After building a successful business from the ground up and then personally overseeing its integration with the Cardinal Health Jon has decided to retire in June of this year.
I want to take the opportunity on behalf of all of Cardinal Health to thank him for his incredible passion his business insight and his customer focus.
We have greatly enjoyed working with Jon and know that General Manager Debbie Weitzman who has been working closely with Jon for a number of years will do a fantastic job building upon the strong company he founded.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks George and hello everyone.
It's great to be discussing another very strong quarter results.
I'll begin my remarks today by expanding on some financial trends and drivers in the third quarter and then try to add more color around our updated fiscal '11 guidance including some of our key expectations from our corporate and segment standpoint.
I'll conclude my remarks by providing a few preliminary fiscal '12 assumptions for certain corporate items to which we have some visibility.
Consistent with our general practice of aligning the timing of giving guidance with our internal budget process we will provide guidance for fiscal 2012 on our Q4 call.
Let's start with Slide 4.
During the quarter we grew our non-GAAP EPS by 23% to $0.75 leveraging 7% revenue and 21% non-GAAP operating earnings growth.
Notably the $26.1 billion of revenue recognized in Q3 represents an all-time high for Cardinal Health since the company's inception including the period pre-spin when we are still reporting the CareFusion businesses in our results.
Once again we are reporting strong progress on our goal to expand margins with both gross margin rate and non-GAAP operating margin rate increasing versus Q3 of last year up 31 basis points and 20 basis points respectively.
Although non-GAAP operating expenses were up 11.5% this was largely driven by the expenses added to the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures.
Let me pause here to comment in a little more detail on the impact of our acquisitions on the quarter's results.
Overtime as the recent acquisitions become more integrated into our overall business they become increasingly difficult for us to break out the impact of the specific deals.
However since this is the first full quarter in which we have the collective benefit of Yong Yu Kinray and P4 I do want to try to give you some idea of the combined impact on our financials.
If you exclude the impact of these 3 acquisitions in the quarter on a consolidated non-GAAP basis revenue grew 2% SG&amp;A would have been up less than 2% and operating earnings increased 16%.
Interest and other expense came in better than our expectations than last year driven by favorability realized interest rate swaps foreign exchange and gains on our deferred compensation plan.
And as stated before we generally do not try to predict continuations of these items when we prepare our internal forecast.
On last quarter's call I mentioned that we expected our non-GAAP tax rate in the back half of the year to be higher than the full year rate due to the impact of certain discrete items.
Consistent with these comments our non-GAAP tax rate this quarter was 40.5% above last year's rate of 38.2%.
The unfavorable discrete items in the quarter net to approximately $15 million are a non-GAAP basis.
This included tax law change in Puerto Rico which reduced the value of our deferred tax assets and the impact of unfavorable changes in state tax items.
Note that we are still maintaining our previous non-GAAP tax rate guidance of approximately 37% for the full year.
Finally we continue to benefit from the $450 million in share repurchases we executed last summer with our share count at about 353 million diluted average shares outstanding versus 362 million in last year's Q3.
Before shifting the discussion to segment results let me comment on consolidated cash flow and the balance sheet.
We have excellent operating cash flow in Q3 at over $900 million bringing the total year-to-date to $1.3 billion.
This outstanding result is primarily driven by our strong earnings performance as well as further working capital improvements.
I will point out that Q3 is typically our strongest quarter for operating cash flow and it was particularly so this year.
Let me also add that quarterly cash flow is a highly volatile number and very difficult to predict accurately.
That all said I don't anticipate near that kind of cash generation in Q4.
Overall we are very pleased with where we are from a cash perspective.
Clearly our ongoing focus on working capital excellence continues to pay dividends resulting in a 0.6 day reduction versus last year.
The variation within certain components of networking capital days is largely driven by our recent acquisitions and timing.
But the net result clearly highlights our continued disciplined asset management.
We ended the quarter with $2 billion in cash of which $205 million is held overseas.
As a reminder this cash balance does not include our investments in held-to-maturity fixed income securities as they are classified as other assets on the balance sheet.
At quarter end these investments the maturity is less than 2 years totaled $153 million.
One final note on the balance sheet.
During the quarter we paid $220 million of long-term debt to maturity bringing our long-term obligations to $2.4 billion.
This paydown was funded by the $500 million of debt we opportunistically issued last December.
Now let's move to Q3 segment performance referring primarily to Slide 5 and 6 and starting with the Pharma segment.
Revenue in the segment increased 7.3% with the acquisitions we completed earlier in the fiscal year contributing 5.6 percentage points to this growth rate.
Sales to non-bulk customers grew 21% in the quarter while sales to bulk customers declined 7%.
This decline in bulk sales is attributable to a shift in shipments to certain national chain customers from bulk to non-bulk as well as the impact of certain branded products converting to generics.
It's worth noting that sales to non-bulk customers now comprised 57% of total segment sales.
Within the category of non-bulk growth I'd like to point out that revenues from retail independents continue to grow at a rate above the market and it is an important classic trade.
Even when excluding the sizable impact of the Kinray acquisition.
Let me also add a few comments about growth in our China business whose results are captured in our Pharma segment.
Revenue for the Yong Yu business grew 25% in Q3 versus its performance as a separate company in the same time period last year.
Eric and his team are doing a great job in driving the business forward.
Growth was particularly high in our local direct distribution business an area where we're focusing our efforts to expand geographic breadth and penetration.
As George said I just returned from a visit in China but we are focused on reviewing strategic initiatives in the FY '12 budget.
My second level of our potential in this market seems only to grow each time I visit both in the base business but also as we explore possible opportunities in additional areas like nuclear pharmacy lab distribution and supporting the growth of retail pharmacy.
Now turning back to the overall Pharma segment.
Segment profit margin rate increased by 23 basis points compared to the prior year's Q3 driven by an increase in non-bulk margins and the continued mix shift towards non-bulk.
In addition to the ongoing success of our generic sales and sourcing programs we also saw a continued benefit from new and recently launched generic items during the quarter as well as an overall generic deflation rate that continues to be below historical norms.
By our performance under our branded manufacturer agreements was also a positive driver.
Net debt to the Pharma segment again had an excellent quarter which resulted in an increase in segment profit of 25% to $384 million.
I will note that the acquisition has contributed 5.7 percentage points of the segment profit growth in the quarter.
Now turning to our Medical segment.
Revenue for this segment increased by 5.1% to $2.2 billion driven by increased sales to our existing customers.
As the volume from recent customer wins phases in they're beginning to offset our customer losses from prior periods.
By Q4 that impact will be a distinct net positive.
Our inventory business a continuing focus for us grew its revenue by 13% during the quarter.
We also saw a strong growth in our lab business which grew nearly 12% over the prior year quarter.
Medical segment profit declined 0.6% to $107 million as volume growth was offset by the negative impact of commodity price increases on the cost of products sold.
Specifically commodity prices impacted our current period cost of goods sold by $12 million versus last year.
This commodity headwind reduced segment profit by 11 percentage points versus last year.
Blue had a negligible year-on-year earnings impact in the quarter.
I'll also mention that inpatient surgery procedures continue to be somewhat sluggish which disproportionately impacts our higher-margin preferred products including our Presource kits.
We remained very focused on cost containment across the Medical segment as we continue to work to offset some of the external environmental factors we have faced in recent periods.
Overall despite continued headwinds for our Medical business we continue to show good progress in the end of the line performance and believe we are well positioned for longer-term growth.
Now let me turn to Slide 7 although I won't go through the schedule in details I will mention that GAAP results included items that had a negative $0.04 per share net after-tax impact.
One additional comment.
You may notice the schedule shows a loss in the sale of CareFusion shares taking place in the third quarter.
Despite the fact that we have sold all of our stake in CareFusion in prior periods let me explain.
Upon finalizing the fiscal 2010 federal income tax return in the third quarter we adjusted the value of certain deferred income tax accounts related to CareFusion increasing our cost basis.
This resulted in a $3 million reduction of our previously recognized gain on the sale of CareFusion shares.
Now lets' turn our discussion to our updated fiscal '11 guidance starting with Slide 9.
As George mentioned based on our strong fiscal year-to-date performance we're increasing our full year guidance range or non-GAAP EPS to $2.61 to $2.67 from a previous range of $2.54 to $2.60.
This increasing guidance range reflects our strong performance in generics and better contribution from the recent acquisitions than we previously noted on our Q2 call.
There is a possibility that we may have to take a LIFO charge in our Pharma segment in Q4 which is the primary explanation for why we are providing the breadth of earnings range that we are at this stage of the year.
Our overall revenue guidance remains at low single-digit growth.
Slide 10 outlines some of our key corporate expectations for the year.
The only change shown in red from our previous assumption we shared in our February call is that we are now expecting interest and other to net to approximately $80 million which incorporates the benefits we saw in Q3.
I'd now like to spend a couple of minutes going through some of the specific segment assumptions in more detail.
Starting with just a few items relating to the Pharma business on Slide 11.
Expectation for brand inflation is that the rate will be similar to or perhaps slightly higher than what we saw in fiscal '10.
We continue to expect a positive earnings effect from generic launches versus FY '10.
And I mentioned earlier the possibility of a LIFO charge in Q4 which is we have incorporated into our guidance range.
Turning to Slide 12 in the Medical segment.
Our guidance continues to include an expectation of approximately $60 million of full year negative impact on cost of goods sold due to commodity price movements.
Thus far in fiscal '11 we realized about $45 million of negative impact.
As you may recall this $60 million figure is the same that we indicated to you back in the February during our Q2 call.
Although there has been significant commodity price volatility since but given the lag time we have as input costs flows through our channel we actually had a pretty good level of visibility at that time through much of the remainder of the year.
Our Medical Business Transformation is now in the testing phase and on track for a national implementation in calendar 2012 with the phase rollout scheduled to begin in the fall of this calendar year.
As we said before this is a significant business transformation designed to further enable our channel and category management strategy and enhance the customer expense.
We continue to expect meaningful contribution of margins from this effort in fiscal 2013.
Finally I want to note a change that will impact the optics of our P&amp;L from Medical going forward.
As we have been implying for some time we are transitioning our distribution model of CareFusion from a net service-fee-based arrangement to a traditional branded distribution agreement which will increase our reported revenue by approximately $50 million to $60 million per quarter beginning in Q4.
Although this transition will have an insignificant impact on margin dollars they will have the effect of somewhat depressing our segment profit margin rate going forward in the range of approximately 25 basis points.
Before we move into Q&amp;A I thought it would be helpful to provide a few preliminary corporate assumptions for fiscal '12 on this call.
Although we are not at the point in our budget process where we can provide operating assumptions we have relatively good visibility into the items shown on Slide 14 at this point.
And we thought we'd share our thinking here.
Starting with non-GAAP effective tax rate we are expecting a rate of between 37% and 37.5% for the full year.
Note that this rate may continue to fluctuate quarterly due to unique items affecting certain periods.
Next we expect our diluted weighted average shares outstanding to be between 353 million and 354 million in fiscal '12.
You will note that this is an increase from our forecasted in fiscal '11 we had averaged slightly above 352 million shares.
Although this forecast for fiscal '12 assumes $250 million of the gross share repurchases consistent with the amount we repurchase in fiscal '11.
There are certain assumptions that counteract this such as the impact of share price on both the number of shares repurchased and also the dilution calculation in exercising of options.
Interest and others net we anticipate a range of $100 million to $110 million of the year.
This forecast generally assumes certain items that benefit us in fiscal 2011 such as interest rate swaps foreign exchange and deferred compensation do not necessarily repeat in fiscal '12.
And we are estimating approximately $250 million of capital expenditures next year with a continued focus on the Medical Business Transformation project and customer-facing IT investments.
To sum my remarks let me say that I am again pleased with the overall performance in the quarter and the results we have delivered year-to-date positioning us very well for the future.
With that let me turn it over to our operator to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions]  And your first question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser of Morgan Stanley.
I have one question just a clarification then another follow-up.
George you've said today and you've said in the past that 2012 should be comparable to 2011 in terms of the generic volumes.
So just to clarify you're referring to your fiscal '12 versus fiscal '11 or are you referring to calendar year? Ricky I don't know if you're on a mobile we're having a really difficult time picking you up would you try that one more time? Sure.
Can you hear me now? Better.
Just to clarify George on your comments on the generics here that you said 2012 should be comparable to 2011 just to clarify are you referring to Cardinal's fiscal year '12 versus fiscal year '11 or are you speaking to calendar year? Thanks Ricky.
We're just talking about our fiscal year expectations yes.
Okay great.
And then obviously great performance on the generics side.
Yesterday one of the smaller distributors lowered their guidance for the year citing difficult generics comparison.
The question here is do you think that you are gaining share from the smaller distributors? And is the shortage in supply that we're hearing about in the marketplace helping you not just from pricing perspective but also from product allocations perspective? I agree Ricky.
Let me say it's very difficult to comment on other company's characterization.
So it's hard to do that.
I'll comment the best I can on ours.
I think in general our programs are performing very well.
Our penetration continues to be strong.
Our customers are doing well the demand for generics continues to be robust.
I think our service levels and our broad base of distribution covering all the retail channels -- remember we are also in hospitals and clinics.
So we've got a very broad base of distribution.
The flow of new products was reasonably robust.
And in general I think obviously the addition of Kinray also added somewhat to our overall generic business although they're not really yet fully on our SOURCE program.
So those are sort of all the areas that that contributed to it.
I'm not sure that the supply issues necessarily alter the dynamics of share around the industry.
I probably would not point to that.
And your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci of Lazard Capital Markets.
This is Andrea Alfonso for Tom.
The first question is on commodities.
A while back you had suggested a rough rule of thumb for the earnings impact on the company for every $1 that oil rises.
Is there still a simple formula to follow here? And if so how do you think about it? Thanks Andrea.
That's a good question and one that I expect I'll be getting a lot over the coming days just given the prevalence of discussion about commodities and commodity inflation that's impacting a lot of companies these days.
So let me try to answer that by starting very broadly and then getting a little more specific.
I think the rule of thumb that we used to have probably it isn't as simple as that anymore and that -- our overall exposure has continued to grow the number of commodities we're exposed to has continued to grow and quite frankly the number of commodities that are showing price volatility has changed.
A year ago we didn't talked a whole lot about cotton or even latex and now those are some of the most volatile commodity prices that are out there.
So again this might be a longer answer to your question but I thought it was important to give you the full picture.
So to be clear our current estimate of total gross exposure to commodities.
And this include both direct and indirect exposures.
And this is an estimate for next year so fiscal '12.
It's somewhere between $500 million and $600 million.
Again I want to reiterate that's our total gross exposure and it's probably the broadest definition possible since it includes the raw material inputs we buy directly as well as those products that we source or we have more indirect exposures to cost input movement.
It also as I said a gross number so it reflects none of our hedging programs or programs that we're undertaking to mitigate our exposure.
Again that amount of $500 million to $600 million also reflects the entire range of commodities not only items like oil and oil-based resins but things like cotton and latex and corrugates and other materials.
So again that will be our total exposure from a cost of goods standpoint.
Now one of the things I would like to point out it's not as simple as sort of applying one commodity price movement to that total bucket and coming up with the rule of thumb because a lot of these commodities aren't correlated and may in fact move in opposite directions at the same time.
So I guess that will be the first answer to question.
The other question that I'm sure will come up that's related to this that I'll just get out there is what -- if you look at that total basket of exposure what's the potential headwind for next year.
Now I'll probably give you a partial answer to that because we're still only 9.5 months or 10 months into FY '11.
So there's a lot of FY '11 and obviously FY '12 to play out and a lot of things can change.
But because there's a lagging effect related to commodity price movements and our cost of goods sold we do have some limited visibility on the commodity impact in fiscal '12.
But again I'll point out that it's still very early prices are volatile and our planned mitigation actions aren't fully worked through yet.
And we'll be going through those -- continue to go through those over the next couple of months as we do our planning.
But in early estimate based on today's spot rates and forward curves would imply an incremental headwind next year in about the same range as the one that what we experienced in fiscal '11.
But again I'd point out it's early and we'll have a better view of our commodity headwind and mitigation strategy.
So we can provide guidance on our Q4 earnings call.
So again a long answer to your question but I think the situation has gotten more complex.
So there's no simple algorithm that we can probably point to but hopefully that gives you a little bit of directional input.
Great.
I appreciate all the color.
And I guess just to transition to George's earlier comment about his expectations for fiscal '12 to be comparable to fiscal '11 in terms of generic value.
Just to clarify is any aspect of that due to Cardinal just making internal progress as far as generics in '11 over and above market dynamics such that in fiscal '12 the internal progress slows down a bit so it normalizes things for you? Let me clarify because I want to make sure we don't confuse two different issues.
So what I was referring to is our fiscal year-over-year launched and newly launched value.
So we're not talking about the base of our program we're just talking about the flow of new and what we would call recently launched products.
So this is just a snapshot of what we see in the launch landscape as we look forward 12 to 15 months.
As you know a lot can change in that and does change often because you can't perfectly have visibility on litigation and challenges et cetera.
I would say having said that '11 has been a very very strong year for us.
And so that's good news.
It's been strong for us both on the core activities and our level of effectiveness with our program as well as a good year of launches.
And I would say also as it relates to inflation deflation it's been a relatively strong year with less inflation that we have seen in the prior years.
And your next question comes from the line of Garen Sarafian of Citigroup.
One is a clarification question.
George you had mentioned that you had started to sign some new agreements with specialty manufacturers but it would take some time.
Can you just elaborate on that a little bit as to the progress that you've made and sort of maybe some sort of like a baseball analogy what inning you're in to become for this process to work itself out? And when we could expect Cardinal to have a full specialty capability in terms of distribution? Thanks.
We're probably still early stages.
I don't know -- say we're in the second or third inning.
I would say from the standpoint of building our capabilities we're actually reasonably in good shape.
What I've said to you before is that for us a building up the specialty distribution depends on building the right presence in the community of oncology and other specialty areas.
And we've just really begun to do that in recent months and we've just began to sign our early agreements.
So we expect that that distribution aspect would grow gradually.
And we really are in the early phases.
I will say that this is going a bit slower than I'd like.
You probably know that I am not a very patient person.
But the flip side is that other aspects of our specialty business particularly the Pathways program has probably taken a hold a bit quicker than we expected.
So I would say that we're early stages in specialty distribution.
It's hard to time that for you but the better we build our positioning in the provider community the greater our ability to secure deals on distribution.
So it sounds like it's more of at least 2013 type of a story? It's very hard to time for you.
The good news is that we are relatively small and so the ability to move the needle for us may be a little quicker.
So I'm not going to try to time that for you.
I'm hopeful that we'll make some good progress during the next 6 to 12 months.
But again it's going to be a building process and we're prepared to see that through.
Regarding generics you had another impressive quarter of year-over-year growth in your SOURCE Generics program.
Still trying to grasp what's behind that? Was that impacted disproportionately by Kinray or were there new customers or just a greater share? What was it? It's an interesting question because really Kinray is not part of that SOURCE number at this point.
We're just beginning to integrate -- that we haven't really done that yet.
So the SOURCE growth is really a broad based growth.
We've seen it in almost every channel for us.
It's been with that solid generic penetration rate.
And interestingly it's been a fair amount of supply disruption.
So in spite of the supply disruption in the system we've done pretty well.
I think our teams are just very focused.
I think our program is good our offering is flexible.
Our customers understand the value proposition.
And I think we've done a reasonably good job of driving it.
I think we've also done a good job of working collaboratively with our suppliers upstream to get the right value proposition for them.
So I think it's really an alignment of all the components I've said before about generic.
It's not just one piece you've got to get everything working right from the SOURCE into the selling into the incentive systems.
And I think we've got probably got things lining up increasingly in the right direction.
And your next question comes from the line of Ross Muken of Deutsche Bank.
This is Mike in for Ross.
I just want to dig on to Kinray a little bit.
You guys you said that the integration is going very well.
Obviously Kinray is a big contribution during the quarter.
Kinray bring their community and independent expertise.
Can you talk about some of the lessons you've already learned from Kinray in terms of applying that to your legacy independent community base? Yes.
Thanks its' a good question.
We've really enjoyed getting to know the folks in Kinray.
There's a lot of things we do very similarly.
But in many ways the New York market is actually quite unique and it always has been in retail pharmacy.
And so there are learnings about different approaches to the model that we gained from them but we also recognized that some of the things that we do and that they do in New York are so specific to the characteristics of that market.
And so I think hopefully we're a good learning company as well as a good teaching company when we acquire and we work very hard at making sure that the flow of information and learnings go in both directions.
And I think we'll continue to learn from each other.
It will be hard to call out one specific thing but I do think that there's plenty for us to teach one another.
Great.
And then obviously at the end of 2010 was a busy year for you guys on the M&amp;A side.
You talked about integration going along well.
At this point how do you feel in terms of readiness for further acquisitions? And if so what areas are you focused in or is integration still going to be the near-term focus? Let me start by saying that execution on our recent acquisitions remains for us a very high priority.
So again we'll be very clear about that.
And having said that I think our conversation is capable and I think from talent management standpoint we're really thrilled about the team and the depth that we've been building.
And our goal over the long term is to position ourselves for long term and sustainable competitive advantage.
And of course we'll always continue to look for opportunities to do that both organically and externally.
But again I should say that focus on execution on our acquisition is very important to us right now.
And your next question comes from the line of Steve Valiquette of UBS.
I just want to get a sense for the current environment for generic drugs supply shortages more from a manufacturer's side that could be driving better pricing on generics this come up obviously last quarter as well.
I think just generally how would you characterize the current environment in the March quarter or in April let's say versus 12 months ago just sort of generally speaking and supply disruption is helping you on generic pricing it is better or worse or about the same versus a year ago? The only correct answer to the question independent of the question of pricing because I think it's really a noteworthy.
I would say that level of supply disruption is higher today than it was 12 months a ago.
I'm not sure it's changed particularly over the last 3 or 4 months but I would say the last 6 to 7 months has been quite lumpy out there.
But certainly if I compare it to a year ago I would say there's been more disruption across the spectrum in the generic supply system.
It probably is one of the explanations and we talked about this before for some of the moderating deflation that in some products you simply got your competitors because the companies struggled.
There's been some compliance issues around heightened scrutiny on many companies.
So I think I would probably say that that's higher than it was one year ago.
Your next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill of JPMorgan.
Just a couple of just quick follow-ons here.
George have you been able to pass along any of the increase in commodity pricing to your customers? And as Jeff talked about the lag around commodity pricing and $60 million being the headwind next year is there some expectation that either hedging or passing it along to the customer will help to mitigate some of what we're seeing right now? Lisa let me start and I'll give you a bit of a generalized answer because it's really very specific to the condition.
Certainly during the course of this year we've been evaluating some and at some cases implementing how and when it's appropriate to pass this cost along to our customers.
These are often delicate discussions that involve trade-offs.
And so we look at this but we look at this quite carefully.
As you also know there are often contracts in this part of our business and so they are forward-looking obligation.
But we have worked closely with customers in some cases.
We've been asking them to share some of the burden with us.
In some cases we had to offer additional services to them to help mitigate the impact for them.
So we're really working very carefully on ways essentially for the whole supply chain to mitigate the cost of this.
So that's probably the best answer I can give you.
And Jeff I don't know if you want to add to that? Let me kind of brief you on hedging.
We hedged about 50% to 75% of our exposure to diesel fuel.
We've also began hedging our exposure to cotton in the last quarter or so.
And we continually look for other ways of financially hedging our exposure.
Although as you know it's always somewhat difficult because you got to find the right coloration between the financial derivatives and your underlying exposure in order to get hedge accounting treatment.
And some of our exposures are indirect either because we're looking at the root of the commodities or because we're not directly biting the right inputs.
It's not always easy to get that hedge accounting treatment that allows you to lessen the volatility in your income statement.
But again we continue to expand our hedging efforts and are looking for more opportunities there.
We also take the approach that we need to continually adjust to our cost level in organization.
Sometimes that means reducing other costs.
And as I mentioned in my prepared remarks the Medical segment continue to be very focused on cost containment to ensure that we're minimizing our overall cost structure not just cost of goods sold to the extent that we can.
And then just -- as my second question when I look at the preliminary numbers to think about for '12  that you put out Jeff.
I noticed that share count will be going up in '12.
Can you maybe just reiterate for us I know there's been questions today around acquisitions what your capital deployment strategy is? Is there not plans for share repurchase as we look into '12? Or is there something else that's driving that share increases as we go into next year? Thanks for the question.
First of all we currently have a $750 million share reprogram authorized by our board last November.
Currently it us untapped so we have the full amount available.
The assumption in next year's number is that we used $250 million of that authorization to buy back shares which is similar so exactly the same amount of those repurchases we did in fiscal '11.
So when you look at that in isolation you'd say our share count should be going down.
However when we sort of estimate our share count we also take into account things like assumed timing of repurchase and perhaps even more importantly what our share price is going to be.
And given the recent escalation in share price and our projections for that in the future we then run that through our option dilution model and our option exercise model.
And one of the reasons we're seeing a fairly high offset to our repo next year is that we have a fair number of option tranches and at strike prices in the low 40s to mid-40s.
So as we sort of pass those strike prices we're sort of go over a cliff and you begin having the potential for option exercises which affects our base share count and then just a dilutive impact when you do the option dilution calculation which affects our diluted shares outstanding.
So that's really what's driving the offset to the assumed share repurchase next year.
And your next question comes from the line of Larry Marsh of Barclays Capital.
Maybe just a follow-up and then second question there.
Just around you're thinking about 2012.
I guess the good news is assuming your shares are going up but what's the size of the potential option impact the treasury stock method Jeff as you sort of think about what could be the offset to potential share repurchases? You can easily have a several million dollar dilutive impact either from options being exercised or the dilutive impact from passing those strike rates over the course of the year.
All right.
Okay.
A follow-up question then is really around the Medical business.
I think the good news in the quarter your $60 million estimated impact that you communicated last quarter is consistent with what you've said this quarter which you obviously said you were proactive and thinking conservative and thinking about commodity cost.
And you're communicating a potential headwind of another $0.10 for next year.
I know the big picture George you've talked about the Medical business through the Medical Transformation initiatives is a platform that you think can be nicely more profitable through a combination of factors.
You've had to fight through this headwind this year.
You're communicating another headwind next year.
When do you think we'll see the nice ramp in margins with Mike and his team and what gets us there? So let me just give you first a general observation Larry which is -- again our Medical group has really been battling 2 kinds of headwinds in the last 8 to 12 months.
Obviously commodity issue that we've talked about but also a relatively sluggish procedure volume particularly in hospital surgical procedures which is a significant driver for us.
And it's actually a margin driver as well because a lot of our preferred products are used in the OR.
So if you actually strip those away in a sense the underlying performance has actually been quite encouraging.
And I'm really pleased at what's happening both in terms of our market position the kind of account wins we've had the focus on category and what I think is our ability to create value for our customers through our tools ranging from the back belt that we deployed in our operations to the preferred products program.
So those are also to me margin expanders.
And I think what's been happening in some ways is that some of the good work has actually been masked by some of those headwinds.
So I'll try to time all this because -- again because of the sort of commodity aspect that we look and a little bit of these procedure issues that are tied to the economy.
But my general sense is that we are feeling momentum now actually.
I would say that state of confidence in our group is high and I think we just got to keep that our strategy the medical trends I think we'll start to -- just probably be more in '13 than in '12.
But those are all about driving margin.
We actually feel fairly good about where we're position and the team is on it and their hungry.
And your next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Can you just comment on the D&amp;A run rate is the current experience is what we should carry forward? And secondarily you've commented somewhat on the share base for next year.
Can you remind us what's your long-term dividend payouts goals are? Will we make some progress towards getting there next year? Bob this is Jeff.
I mentioned in the last call that our anticipation for intangible amortization with next year was somewhere in the $85 million to $95 million range.
We're still finishing evaluation for two of our acquisition.
So I don't have any new information to apply to that.
That will get finalized in the next month or so and we'll be able to give a more firm number when we give the guidance for next year.
So I would say that $85 million to $95 million number for amortization next year is just probably as good as any which is a slight increase in this year's as you would expect as the full year impact of the acquisitions come in.
In terms of depreciation run rate I would actually expect depreciation to go up next year reflecting as part of Medical business transformation going live and we'll begin to depreciate the capital that we've put into that program starting next year.
In terms of the dividend obviously that's up to our board ultimately to decide.
And we'll communicate when and if that decision is made.
But our longer-term goal of growing the dividend at or above the longer-term earnings growth rate over time is still our expectation.
And your next question comes from the line of Eric Coldwell of Baird.
I was hoping we can dig into the Ambulatory segment growth.
I think you quoted 13%.
What are the drivers of that growth penetration versus share volume pricing impact of health systems consolidating medical groups and physician practices? If you could give us some sense of what you think the real market growth is and what's driving your 13% performance? Eric thanks for the good question.
We're encouraged by the growth here.
This is as you know has been an area of some focus for us.
There are couple of things happening: One obviously we've deployed more resources into this group believing that this is a very natural linkage to our acute care strategy particularly as IDNs begin to extend their footprint into the Ambulatory settings.
So partly it's about focus about deployment of our team and about resources.
It's somewhat about our offering which I think has been -- we've done a better job -- some of the work that we've done in the customer phasing IT investments have really been about making us a more natural player in that market.
So I think we've done well they were down particularly well in surgery centers where we have I think some natural opportunity particularly in the kitting area.
So I think that's largely been what's going on there.
There's probably also as elements of this connection as you said just to the IDN.
You have the large integrated systems to increasingly extending their footprint beyond the acute care box towards the Ambulatory setting.
And that's probably a gravitational pull that is a natural affinity for our business and for our strategy and for a lot of our capability.
That's great.
My second question relates to conversations we've had recently with supply chain managers and health systems.
We get the sense that some are looking to really revisit how they contract with vendors looking to put in place long-term coterminous contracts where for example they would look at Cardinal's nuclear pharma lab med/surg pharmacy consulting businesses et cetera in total as a corporate relationship and move them all to one contracting process perhaps with an extended renewal date say 3 5 7 years down the road.
Are you seeing a big shift in how the supply-chain managers within health systems are looking at your business in total.
And if so what the impact of that might be? Again I don't want overstate this because it's important.
But I do think that we believe that there is value in doing that.
Many health system today given the environment around them are looking for new ways to create value and to approach their business.
And this really is an area that plays to our strength.
We reached completely across categories products and drugs and also across channels.
And I think the ability to bring this suite of those tools to a large system can be a value creator and we are seeing some of that.
But again I don't want to overstate it as if it's a massive change.
But I do think they get something that we're seeing.
We think it will continue and we think that plays to our strength.
Jeff I think he wanted to clarify something from the last subset? I was just going to add on to your answer to the prior question from Eric and that is -- as we look at inventory as you may know our inventory is composed of all surgery center and physician's offices.
We look at both in total and separately for those subset.
So I would say both of those is very very well showing strong growth in Q3 which indicates that we're growing well above market in both of those subsets which is very important.
Luanne in the interest of time I think we've got time for probably 2 more folks in queue and then any other questions we will be more than happy to take after the call.
The next question does come from John Kreger of William Blair.
This is Robbie Fatta in for John Kreger.
On the generic side given the supply disruptions that you talked about and the impact of the complexity of some of the new drugs that are going to be losing protection the next year what are your expectations for generic deflation in fiscal 2012? That's hard to answer Robbie.
We've generally not guided on a deflation rate.
It is really the composite of so many forces.
Some of which we don't have control over as you know.
If a certain product is in the exclusive or semi-exclusive status and it's stays there for 3 more months than we model then deflation will be less than we expected.
So it's very difficult to give you a forward-looking model on deflation rates.
What we can say is that certainly over the last 9 months or so -- again that's an inexact time table we have seen a lower rate of deflation.
Some of the conditions that I think are causing that we continue to see but I don't know that I can give you a guidance on a deflation rate.
And your next question comes from the line of Robert Jones of Goldman Sachs.
This is Verdell Walker in for Robert Jones.
I just have a quick question on the CareFusion transition just some clarification.
I think you said that we can expect a $50 million to $60 million quarterly impact from that going forward.
I was just wondering could you just walk us back through that on the revenue and the margin side of the transition.
Sure.
And [indiscernible] let me give you a little bit more detail on this because some people are a little bit confused on exactly what's happening here.
Absolutely thanks.
At the time of the spin we put in what was a temporary arrangement with CareFusion particularly around -- or primarily around our businesses in the Chicago area that had been linked for some time going back to the allegiance phase really.
And because we needed some time for CareFusion to get its own independent systems up and running we put in place a temporary arrangement where effectively we manage most of their distribution for them and then charged a fee.
So it was a quality PPO [ph] relationships really for that particular business which primarily affects their V.
Mueller and respiratory products.
The plan was always eventually they would get their own systems up and running which they did on this quarter actually.
And once they did that we agreed that we would move from that service fee based arrangement where we just got a service fee for the products that we handle to a more traditional brand distribution agreement where we actually took ownership of the products recognized the revenue and then realized the margin on that revenue that went down to our bottom line.
That transition is happening now and will begin to affect us economically in Q4 this year and then going forward.
Now really it's more of a P&amp;L optics issue because the bottom line impact is about the same for us before and after the transition.
But because we're now recognizing the revenue it has the impact of boosting our revenue and reducing our margin.
And that's where we get to that $50 million to $60 million of incremental revenue figure per quarter starting in Q4 and also the dilutive effect on our margins -- our segment profit margins of about 25 basis points.
So hopefully that helps.
You have no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to Mr.
Barrett for your closing remarks.
Thank you Luanne.
Let me close by saying that we feel very positive about the performance in this quarter and about our trajectory going forward.
And I want to thank all of you for joining us in today's call and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Cardinal Health Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Tanya and I will be your conference moderator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to hand the presentation over to Sally Curley SVP of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Tanya and welcome to Cardinal Health Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2011 Conference Call today.
We will be making forward-looking statements.
The matters addressed in these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to our SEC filings and the forward-looking statement slide at the beginning of the presentation which can be found on the Investor page of our website for a description of risks and uncertainties.
In addition we will reference non-GAAP financial measures.
Information about these measures is included at the end of the slide.
Before I turn the call over to Chairman and CEO George Barrett I'd like to remind you of a few upcoming investment conferences and events in which we will be webcasting.
Notably the Robert W.
Baird 2011 Healthcare Conference on September 7 at 10:30 a.m.
Eastern in New York and the Stifel Nicolaus Healthcare Conference on September 8 at 9 a.m.
Eastern in Boston.
The details of these events are or will be posted on our IR section of the website so please make sure to visit the site often for updated information.
And we look forward to seeing many of you at these events.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to George.
Thanks Sally.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us for our fourth quarter and year-end call.
Our fiscal 2011 was an important year for us.
A year of outstanding accomplishments exceeding all of our key company financial goals and making great strides on both operational and strategic levels.
We continue to strengthen our core businesses build new capabilities to accelerate growth and take strategic action to position us for the short medium and long term.
I'll begin with a few numbers.
Revenue for the fourth quarter was up 9% to $27 billion.
And non-GAAP EPS was $0.59 an increase of 18% over the prior year period.
Full-year revenue was up 4% to $103 billion and we ended fiscal 2011 with a non-GAAP EPS of $2.67 an increase of 20%.
Our organization did an excellent job managing working capital generating $1.4 billion in cash from operations while maintaining -- remaining committed to returning significant value to our shareholders through a differentiated dividend payout share repurchases and maintaining a strong balance sheet.
Now let me provide some color on each segment's performance in the fourth quarter and then I'll return to some discussion on our full-year results.
Our Pharma segment had an exceptional quarter.
Revenue increased by approximately 10% and segment profit increased by 30% versus the prior-year quarter including the contribution from Kinray and Yong Yu.
Both of these acquisitions performed very well and their integration into Cardinal Health has progressed seamlessly.
Strong performance in our generic programs was a key driver in the fourth quarter.
Overall generic revenue growth was up more than 19% versus the prior-year period and sales in our Preferred stores program were up more than 14% with increases across all classes of trade.
Cardinal Health Specialty Solutions posted revenue growth of more than 30% over the prior-year quarter as a result of continued growth in our legacy specialty businesses and a ramp up of P4 Healthcare.
And as we announced back in May during the fourth quarter we expanded our P4 Pathways agreement with Aetna to add Georgia Northern Virginia and Washington D.C.
to the program we launched in February in Maryland and Florida.
And we entered the New York market with the addition of Independent Health to our Pathways program.
In our Nuclear business fourth quarter revenue increased 6.5% and while myocardial profusion imaging doses have continued to increase following the fiscal 2010 technetium supply shortages volumes have not returned to pre-shortage levels.
In the positron emission tomography or PET area we continue to support numerous clinical trials with innovators in the science of molecular imaging.
And we recently launched our state-of-the-art innovation laboratory in Phoenix that we referenced on our earnings call last quarter.
This facility is a first-of-its-kind collaboration center and will expedite the development of nuclear imaging agents that diagnose and treat diseases like Alzheimer's cancer and heart disease.
Turning to Medical.
This segment achieved solid revenue growth of approximately 7% in the fourth quarter primarily from sales to existing customers across all channels.
Although commodity cost increases led to a profit decline of 24% versus the prior-year quarter the underlying performance of the segment is encouraging.
There are clear signs that our channel and category management strategies are generating new business.
In the quarter we had some key wins including the expansion of our business with the Department of Defense and several large hospital networks or IDN which will begin to contribute later in 2012.
In our Preferred products portfolio we signed a record number of commercialization agreements with national brands in the fourth quarter.
Our category strategy better aligns us with customers and suppliers and will be a margin driver going forward.
I'd like to take a few moments to comment on utilization as it did dampen Medical segment profit growth in the quarter.
We've indicated over this past year that we were continuing to model somewhat soft utilization over the near term and we have not seen a material change.
Procedure-driven activity remained somewhat sluggish for the period and the results in the quarter for our Medical segment were held back by these dynamics.
Having said this the Ambulatory Care channel continued its strong growth particularly in surgery centers where revenue grew by double digits in spite of the utilization dynamic that I just described.
We did outgrow the physician office market which has continued to be weak.
It is worth noting that our focused cross-selling effort between our Pharma and Med segments is bearing fruit.
If we include this new Pharma sales which show up in our Pharma segment physician office growth would have been closer to 10%.
In the lab channel and Canada both grew by mid-single digits.
Our Medical Business Transformation initiative is on track for our pilot launch in October followed by our national implementation in the second half of fiscal 2012.
And we continue to expect a meaningful contribution to margins from this major initiative as we get into fiscal 2013.
Now let me provide more color on the full year.
Over all we had an outstanding fiscal 2011.
We grew non-GAAP EPS by 20% even with the commodity headwind of $60 million.
We improved our gross margin rate by 22 basis points versus last year driven by rebalancing our customer and product mix.
We generated $1.4 billion of cash from operations.
We strengthened our balance sheet despite deploying well over $2 billion in acquisitions and share repurchases.
We increased our differentiated dividend by 11% in fiscal 2011 and in May we increased it another 10%.
All in all we achieved an excellent balance of investing for current and future growth and returning significant value to our shareholders.
We continue to solidify our relationship with national retail customers and large hospital networks as highlighted by a number of contract renewals during the year.
In fiscal 2011 we made great progress on continuing to strengthen our strategic position in a number of important areas.
We dramatically expanded our footprint in community pharmacy and accelerated the growth of our generic franchise with the acquisition of Kinray which added more than 2 000 retail independent customers to our base for a total of approximately 7 000 and significantly shifting our customer mix.
This shift is not trivial.
Approximately 2 years ago we highlighted the need to improve our Pharma business mix.
Since that time our percentage of non-bulk business in our Pharma segment has gone from about 50% to 57% and the number of retail independent pharmacies we serve has increased by about 50% reflecting both organic growth in our customer base and the acquisition of Kinray.
And two weeks ago we hosted more than 4 000 stores at our 21st Annual Retail Business Conference and it was another record year.
This was a great event for our customers and supplier partners to network with each other and discuss changes in the healthcare landscape.
And on a personal level it's a fantastic opportunity for me to hear from them directly.
We acquired P4 Healthcare giving us a presence in oncology and specialty pharmaceutical services.
We continue to build out our capabilities in clinical pathways management giving us greater strength with new sets of customers and partners upstream and enabling us to build collaborative relationships between payers and providers in oncology rheumatoid arthritis and new therapeutic areas.
I'm very pleased with the pace at which we are winning new accounts with our pathways programs and specialty distribution is continuing to build momentum.
We took a significant step to reposition our Medical business.
We continued our investment in our major infrastructure change that we think is critical to delivering on our strategy and we finished our reorganization around channel moving decision-making closer to the customers.
At the same time we had accelerated our capabilities in category management which we think will be increasingly valuable to customers looking for efficiencies and for suppliers looking to grow share.
Our Nuclear business really stepped up its strategic commitment to an adjacent growth platform in PET.
And we have begun to execute with an eye toward a dynamic future growth in that area.
And finally we made a strategic commitment to establishing a presence in China.
The acquisition of Yong Yu creates an entirely new growth platform for Cardinal Health.
Not only does this expand our Pharma business in a market which is growing rapidly but it is -- also enables growth opportunities for other parts of our portfolio including medical products medical distribution nuclear and consumer health.
Jeff will provide additional commentary on China during his remarks.
As strong as our year was there are still areas for improvement.
Although it was an outstanding year for us in generics systemwide supply disruptions created challenges for us and for our customers.
This did have an impact on our generic compliance growth rate.
As you may remember we set some aggressive generic compliance rate improvement goals for fiscal 2011 on top of strong growth in fiscal 2010.
We have continued to progress to competitive levels but we did fall a bit short of our goal of another 10% improvement.
We will continue to keep our foot on the accelerator here.
And finally as I mentioned earlier specialty distribution is still ramping up.
It has taken a bit longer than we had originally projected.
But with the launch of VitalSource it is beginning to pick up steam and we feel very positive about the future of this business.
In fact we recently announced another large VitalSource customer South Carolina Oncology Associates the largest community oncology practice in the state serving more than 800 patients daily.
Now I'd like to make a few comments about fiscal 2012.
As you saw in our news release based on a new GAAP definition our fiscal 2012 non-GAAP EPS guidance range is $3.04 to $3.19.
This represents growth of about 9% to 14% from the comparable base of $2.80 in fiscal 2011.
Jeff will cover in detail our guidance and specific assumptions in a moment as well as why we're adopting a new definition for non-GAAP earnings which we believe is useful to investors and is more consistent with the approach of other U.S.
healthcare companies.
We are clear on our strategic priorities.
We have the right game plan in place and our organization is executing well.
And while we have to weather a few lingering headwinds we will continue to focus on driving momentum and making sure that each of our businesses has the market position it needs in order to compete.
Let me walk you through areas of focus for fiscal 2012.
Most of this should sound quite familiar to you.
This will be a noteworthy year in generics with some of the largest pharmaceutical products in history losing patent exclusivity.
While we can't control the timing we can control how well we execute on generic launches.
We want to make sure that when the opportunities are there we execute extraordinarily well.
The Specialty business is very important to our future.
While our presence in every part of this business is not yet of the scale we would like we are developing unique capabilities.
We believe that Specialty is a great opportunity for us and we will continue to invest here.
We will continue to deliver value to our Pharmaceutical partners as a one-stop shop for their supply chain service needs.
Pharma partners tell us that our operational expert -- excellence expertise coupled with the efficiencies of our National Logistics Center have helped drive profits improvements and incremental sales for them.
And we will also continue to develop customized tools to support their promotional strategies including new item launches and medication-adherence offerings.
PET will continue to drive the next-generation opportunity in the Nuclear business for us and we will continue to invest in this space.
We are truly excited about China.
Our business is growing well organically.
We will also look for opportunities to build scale and geographic reach.
We will certainly be evaluating tuck-in acquisitions throughout the year as well as broadening the Cardinal Health portfolio in China.
We will remain focused on the way in which the delivery of care is moving between parts of the health system from acute care hospitals to ambulatory centers to doctors' offices and we will make sure that we have the right capabilities to serve all of those channels and the right scale to execute our strategies.
Our Preferred products program represents one of those strategies.
It allows us to assist customers in reducing their costs to serve while reducing overall costs in the healthcare system.
We will continue to focus on growing this important cornerstone of our medical strategy.
Although the Medical segment begins fiscal 2012 with some lingering headwinds our competitive position is strong.
We're in the second year of implementing our category-management strategy.
We will be completing our Medical Business Transformation initiative and we continue to accelerate our global sourcing capabilities.
And of course we're taking aggressive action to mitigate the impact of commodities.
We will continue to focus on margin rates across our businesses and we will maintain a close focus on working capital.
And finally we remain committed to U.S.
shareholders with respect to our capital-deployment strategy with a differentiated dividend program appropriate capital reinvestment for growth and opportunistic share repurchase.
As we look ahead into fiscal 2012 I feel good about our position and our ability to execute on our priorities.
Before I hand the call over to Jeff I'd like to thank all of our employees for their contributions this year.
Our people are passionate about the work they do to serve our customers and I'd like to acknowledge their efforts by sharing a story with you.
With tens of thousands of customers you might think that it's hard to make each customer experience personal.
This story will give you an idea of just how personal it is for our employees.
On Sunday May 22 a tornado tore through Joplin Missouri leaving a path of destruction a mile wide and 6 miles long.
Our customers' pharmacy was located in the center of the storm and was completely destroyed.
There was simply nothing left.
I met this customer a couple of weeks ago at our Annual Retail Business Conference.
He told me his story of losing everything.
And he also described an incredible response from our Cardinal Health people.
The news of the tornado's devastation quickly spread to the Cardinal Health team and they mobilized support in an incredibly short period of time along with the support from other medicine shop owners and local volunteers.
A new location was secured and outfitted with store fixtures.
Phone cable and a security system was installed.
Inventory was ordered and delivered the front of the store fully merchandised and an advertisement developed and placed in the local paper to announce the new location.
On the afternoon of Saturday May 28 less than a week after the tornado had ripped through Joplin the pharmacist owner filled his first prescription in his new location.
It's hard to describe how proud of our people this makes me feel.
With that I'll hand the call over to Jeff to provide more detail on the quarter and the full year and on guidance for fiscal 2012.
Jeff? Thanks George and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to be discussing another great quarter running out an excellent fiscal 2011.
I'd like to begin by expanding on some financial trends and drivers of our Q4 and full-year performance.
Then I'll provide additional detail on our FY '12 guidance including some of our key expectations.
Let's start with Slide 6.
During the quarter we grew our non-GAAP EPS by 18% to $0.59 per share leveraging 9% revenue and 14% non-GAAP operating earnings growth.
The $26.8 billion of revenue recognized in Q4 represents another all-time high for Cardinal Health.
Although non-GAAP operating expenses were up 16% this was largely driven by the expenses added to the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures as well as certain strategic and business system investments.
Interest and other expense came in better than our expectations and last year driven by favorably realized in interest swaps foreign exchange and gains on our deferred compensation plan.
As we stated before when we prepare our internal forecasts we generally do not include an assumption that these items will continue.
Our non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 39% versus 37.7% last year.
The higher rate is attributable to the effect of changes in income mix and discreet items including adjustments in reserves related to completed and pending federal and state tax discussions.
The net of these discreet items was worth $60 million in additional tax expense this quarter.
Last year we had discreet items in the fourth quarter that netted to $4 million in expense.
Finally we continue to benefit from the $450 million in share repurchases we executed last summer with our share count in Q4 at about 355 million diluted average shares outstanding versus 362 million in the prior year's quarter.
Before shifting the discussion to the segment results let me comment on consolidated cash flow and the balance sheet.
We had operating cash flow of approximately $120 million in Q4 which resulted in about $1.4 billion total for the year.
Our strong earnings performance as well as further working capital improvements drove these full-year results.
You may recall that last quarter I said that we expected lower cash generation in Q4 relative to Q3 due to the inherent volatility in our quarterly cash flows.
This is what we experienced.
We ended the quarter with more than $1.9 billion in cash of which $266 million is held overseas.
As a reminder this cash balance does not include our investments in held-to-maturity fixed-income securities which are classified as other assets on the balance sheet and totaled $142 million at quarter end.
Although our net working capital has finished the year flat to prior year end at 8 days we are pleased at being able to maintain these levels given the absorption of recent acquisitions into our business.
We generated $235 million in operating cash flow from net working capital reduction in fiscal 2011 following a noteworthy $949 million reduction in fiscal '10.
One final note on the balance sheet.
During the quarter we opportunistically entered into a new more cost-effective $1.5 billion revolving credit facility which is in effect until May 2016.
Our previous facility was simultaneously terminated.
This line is in addition to our $950 million accounts receivable facility which expires in November 2012.
So we will begin our fiscal '12 with ample balance sheet flexibility to continue to handle any short-term liquidity needs and to maximize longer-term shareholder value.
On a related note I'm happy to report that S&amp;P just upgraded our long-term debt rating to A- recognizing the improvements in our business performance and the consistency of our financial policy.
Now let's move to Q4 segment performance referring primarily to Slide 7 and 8 and starting with the Pharma segment.
Revenue in the segment increased 9.6% with the acquisitions we completed earlier in the fiscal year contributing 6.1 percentage points to this growth rate.
Revenues from retail independents continue to grow at a rate above the market even when excluding the sizable impact of Kinray.
We continue to see strong double-digit generics growth in the quarter both overall and within our SOURCE program.
Our Nuclear business produced 7% revenue growth in Q4 and our traditional core pharmacy or spec procedure volume increased sequentially for the fourth consecutive quarter which is a continued positive sign.
Our PET business also continues to show strong growth.
In China Yong Yu's revenue was again very strong growing 23% in Q4 versus performance as a separate company in the same time period last year.
We also picked up several new large vendor accounts in the period.
Our base business is performing well and we have also begun to see the contribution from a newly implemented business unit supporting the growth of retail pharmacy.
We continue to explore other possible opportunities in areas like nuclear pharmacy lab distribution and pharmacy management.
And perhaps most importantly we have now fully staffed key leadership positions to drive our strategic initiatives.
In short our China business is off to a great start and we are very excited about its potential in this market.
Now turning back to the overall Pharma segment.
Segment profit margin rate increased by 19 basis points compared to the prior year's Q4 reflecting an increase in both bulk and non-bulk margin rates and a continued mix shift towards non-bulk.
For the full year bulk margins were up 7 basis points and non-bulk margins were up 24 basis points compared to full-year fiscal '10.
As part of the ongoing success of our generic programs we also saw continued benefit from new and recently launched generic items during the quarter as well as favorable generic deflation rates.
Although generic deflation continues to be below historical norms rates experienced during Q4 were slightly higher than the first nine months of fiscal 2011 as a result of certain drugs passing their exclusivity period.
We realized strong contributions from acquisitions in the quarter which added 12.1 percentage points to segment profit growth while our performance under our branded manufacturer agreements was also a positive driver.
And since I mentioned a possibility of a LIFO charge on our last call I did want to note that we did not end up incurring one in Q4.
Net-net the Pharma segment again had an excellent quarter resulting in a noteworthy increase in segment profit of 30% to $295 million.
Now turning to our Medical segment.
For the quarter revenue increased by 7.1% to $2.3 billion driven by increased sales to existing customers across all channels and the impact of transitioning our model with CareFusion to a traditionally branded distribution agreement.
This change added 2.4 percentage points or $52 million to revenue and had the effect of depressing our segment profit margin rate during Q4 by 18 basis points.
Importantly and as expected volume from net customer wins was positive this quarter for the first time in fiscal '11.
Our inventory business a continuing focus for us had another strong quarter growing its revenue over 10%.
Medical segment profit declined 24% to $78 million primarily driven by the negative impact of commodity prices on our cost of products sold certain one-time items and system investments partially offset by the impact of increased volume to existing customers and net new business.
Specifically commodity prices impacted our current period cost of goods sold by $14 million versus last year and reduced segment profit margin by 14 percentage points.
We also had certain charges totaling $11 million in the quarter which were primarily due to inventory-related items including a change in estimate related to the capitalization of certain costs associated with self-manufactured products.
As expected the continued sluggishness in utilization disproportionately affected our higher-margin Preferred products including our Presource kits.
Now let me turn to Slide 9 which I will just summarize.
In total GAAP results included items that had a negative $0.01 per share net after-tax impact.
This compares to $0.04 of benefit we had last year primarily driven by litigation gains in that Q4.
One last call-out.
We recorded a small gain related to CareFusion's shares sold over the last quarter as a result of slight adjustments to our tax accounts.
I want to make a few comments about fiscal '11 in total starting with Slide 10.
For the full year non-GAAP EPS was at $2.67 per share an increase of 20.3% year-on-year and at the upper end of our most recent guidance range.
Operating earnings of $1.6 billion increased 14% versus fiscal '10.
Excluding the Kinray Yong Yu and P4 acquisitions operating earnings would have grown 9.6% and non-GAAP EPS 15.3%.
In particular I am very pleased with the strong progress on our goal to expand margins with both gross margin rate and non-GAAP operating margin rate increasing versus last year up 22 basis points and 13 basis points respectively.
This was driven by the consistently strong operating results of our Pharma segment in particular our generic programs contribution from the acquisitions and performance under our branded manufacturer agreements.
Although our Medical segment faced some unique headwinds namely commodity price increases a one-time CareFusion revenue recognition in FY '10 triggered by the spend and difficult healthcare utilization trends there are good signs in the underlying performance and we believe we have taken steps to position us well longer term.
And positioning for longer-term growth was clearly an accomplishment enterprise-wide in fiscal '11.
Through the acquisitions organic reinvestment and strategic decisions we laid a solid framework upon which we continue to grow in fiscal '12 and beyond.
We did this while returning more than $500 million of cash to shareholders through both a differentiated dividend policy and share buybacks.
Before discussing our fiscal '12 outlook I want to discuss changes in the way we're providing guidance and reporting results going forward.
As noted in the release and mentioned by George we are redefining our non-GAAP earnings measures to exclude amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets.
You'll see in our reconciliation statements that we have referred to this as the new non-GAAP as compared to the historical or previously reported non-GAAP figures.
During the past year a number of you pro-actively asked us to consider changing the way we report our non-GAAP earnings to exclude intangible amortization.
After listening with you and conducting our own research in comparable healthcare companies we have decided to adopt this new definition for our non-GAAP earnings measures.
This we hope will accomplish two things: first to better reflect our ongoing operations and comparisons of current operations with historical and future results; and second to simplify for you comparisons of our results against other peer companies the majority of whom already report on this adjusted basis.
Clearly we also will continue to provide GAAP results as we have historically.
Also note that we will revise previously reported segment profit figures to reclassify acquisition-related intangible amortization to corporate.
Fortunately since we were already breaking out most of our intangible figures for you making these changes was actually pretty simple.
In order to assist in this transition we have provided quarterly financial tables for fiscal '10 and fiscal '11 under the new and historical non-GAAP earnings definitions at the end of today's press release.
So as highlighted on Slide 13 our outlook for non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations in fiscal 2012 is $3.04 to $3.19 under the new definition.
This is growing off a comparable base of $2.80 for fiscal '11.
Now I suspect some of you may be wondering what would drive us towards the lower end of this range.
As always there are a variety of drivers that could push us in either direction but probably the biggest single factor that can move us towards the downside of the range is a further significant increase in commodity prices beyond what we've budgeted for.
As you know we do not provide quarterly guidance.
However I thought it would be helpful to highlight one-time item that we might see for fiscal 2012.
We anticipate our overall tax rate to be between 37% and 37.5% comparable to the FY '11 rate.
And while this may fluctuate quarterly currently we anticipate a more normalized tax rate than the quarterly variances we saw in fiscal '11.
This means for example that in Q2 of FY '12 the relatively low 32.8% tax rate that we experienced in Q2 last year will likely significantly dampen our year-on-year EPS growth rate comparison.
Likewise our ETR in the second half of fiscal '11 is relatively high which potentially creates a somewhat easier compare for Q3 and Q4 of fiscal '12.
Slide 14 outlines some of our other key corporate expectations for the year.
Our diluted weighted average shares outstanding should be approximately 353 million in fiscal '12.
This is a slight increase from our fiscal '11 weighted average of 352.5 million shares.
This forecast for fiscal '12 reflects $250 million of gross share repurchase which we completed in July.
Again we expect the benefit from these repurchases to be offset by the impact of share price on the dilution calculation and exercising of options.
These July repurchases  leave $500 million remaining under our board authorization.
Interest and other should net between $95 million and $105 million.
This forecast assumes that items benefiting interest and other in fiscal '11 such as interest rate swaps foreign exchange and a deferred compensation program do not necessarily repeat in fiscal '12.
We expect capital expenditures in the $250 million to $270 million range with a continued focus on completing the Medical Business Transformation project and customer-facing IT investments.
During Q4 we finalized the valuation of acquired assets and liabilities for the acquisitions which resulted in a reduction in our expectations for amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets to about approximately $75 million from our previous estimated range of $85 million to $95 million.
One final note on corporate assumptions.
Our guidance range includes some incremental SG&amp;A resulting from the expiration of the last of the CareFusion transition service agreements.
However as we have done consistently when the CareFusion spin has created costs [ph] in the past we have plans to substantially offset virtually all these costs within several years.
Let's now spend a few minutes going through some of the segment-specific assumptions starting with Pharma on Slide 15.
Our expectation for brand inflation is that the rate will be similar to fiscal '11.
We continue to forecast good growth from our generic programs versus fiscal '11 driven by our continued momentum in this area.
We expect generic deflation overall to be steeper in fiscal '12 as certain specific products launched over the recent past move out of their exclusivity period and may deflate more rapidly.
Based on our most current portfolio assessment and a very strong generic launch dynamic in fiscal 2011 we project a slightly lower year-over-year contribution from new generic launches in our upcoming fiscal year.
Clearly this area can change quickly and because predicting generic launches is rarely precise we use a risk-adjusted approach to modeling.
We should also point out that we are using an underlying assumption that LIPITOR generic launches in November 2011 with 2 generic players.
We expect to benefit from growth in both our Specialty and PET businesses.
We will continue to invest in customer-facing IT and we will also to continue to invest in growing our platform in China.
Although we narrowly avoided a LIFO charge in fiscal '11 we are modeling one into our fiscal '12 Pharma forecast with the range of $15 million to $25 million.
Finally recall that deal announcement we provide Kinray accretion estimates for fiscal '12 non-GAAP EPS under our historical definition of at least $0.12.
We now expect to exceed that accretion level in fiscal '12 even before considering the removal of intangible amortization.
Turning to Slide 16 in the Medical segment.
We expect mid-single-digit revenue growth reflecting net customer wins in fiscal '11 and the transition of our relationship with CareFusion to a traditional distribution model which should increase revenues by $50 million or $60 million per quarter but decrease segment profit margin rate by approximately 20 to 25 basis points per quarter.
We also expect continued sluggishness in the relevant healthcare utilization trends.
Our guidance includes the full-year expectation of approximately $80 million of gross negative impact on cost of goods sold due to commodity price movements.
This is somewhat larger than what we projected in our last earnings call and let me explain.
We use a CDI or Chemical Data Index as a basis for our internal or related commodity price forecast.
CDI is a forward curve for petroleum petrochemical and plastics commodities.
Since we provided our initial estimate on our April earnings call the relevant forward prices for oil and nitrile have increased on this index.
For your information based on this index we set a budget for fiscal '12 which incorporates oil prices in a range of $100 to $105 per barrel.
Although cotton and latex prices have trended downward recently and are reflected appropriately on our forecast they have relatively less of an impact on the overall basket of commodities to which we are exposed.
As you would expect we have and will continue to take actions including pricing mix and cost-reduction activities while offsetting a good portion of gross impact during the course of fiscal '12 and these mitigating effects are also reflected in our forecast.
We're expecting a headwind of approximately $15 million to $20 million related to foreign exchange net of our hedging activities.
This is primarily driven by the continued weakness in the U.S.
dollar relative to our foreign currency denominated expenses in our international sourcing and manufacturing operations.
Our Medical Business Transformation is in the testing phase and on track for national implementation in the first half of calendar 2012 with a phased rollout scheduled to begin later this calendar year.
And while we expect to see some slight margin contribution toward the end of fiscal '12 we continue to expect meaningful margin contribution in fiscal 2013 and beyond.
In general much of the Medical story in fiscal '12 and beyond is about further strengthening our value proposition and expanding margins as we grow our customer base and our presence in higher-margin products services and channels.
We expect continued growth in Ambulatory and remain committed to growing our Preferred products with a sourcing operation in Asia that continues to expand in scope.
In summary I am very pleased with our overall performance for the quarter and the year.
Fiscal '11 was a great period of operational execution financial performance important strategic moves to establish long-term growth platforms and delivery on those and other strategic priorities.
And very importantly total shareholder return.
I am confident that we will execute well on our priorities and continue our momentum throughout fiscal 2012.
With that let me turn it over to the operator to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Operator? [Operator Instructions]  Our first question will come from the line of Larry Marsh with Barclays Capital.
My question really is context and a follow-up is on P4 and Specialty.
As you would call that George in a year of a lot of successes you communicated that the ramp took a bit longer than expected.
If you could elaborate a little bit more on why that was the case.
And now with the VitalSource GPO in place announcing important GPO relationship do you feel like you're now on track to get to where you want to be or is there still a lot you feel like you can do in Specialty that -- where you're not involved currently? It's been -- all told for our Specialty business it's actually been a good year.
It's been -- different components have done well and better and different components have moved more slowly.
I would say the Pathways programs and our legacy business has actually done really well.
We knew that Specialty distribution was going to be a building process and I would still describe it as that.
We've begun to feel some momentum recently but it does take a while to get rolling.
You've got to build scale and you've got to build presence in the offices.
And I think we've been achieving that throughout the year.
So while I would have liked it to accelerate faster and I'll always be clear with you about that we feel good about the fact that it's picking up steam.
And I think we've got a reason to feel optimistic about it.
And is it clear that you anticipate announcing more of these oncology practice relationships? And will we see these being announced or just give us indications of progress as we go along? It's a great question.
I'm not sure that we'll announce every individual account.
My hope is that they'll become frequent enough that we don't have to do that.
But we'll give you certainly ongoing progress updates and you should expect to hear from us on how -- certainly all of our businesses are doing -- but this is a priority item for us.
And we'll continue to share information on progress.
Very good.
And a follow-up on Medical.
And I know Jeff you talked about $14 million commodities $11 million with inventory adjustments and charges.
You also alluded to incremental IT spending.
About how much was that? And is that all related to med trans? And just you talked about the go-live in the second half of fiscal '12 for med trans.
Is that going to be a specific catalyst for that margin expansion that you hoped to see in fiscal '13? Or is that really separate from some of the other drivers that you're looking for? Let me answer both of those questions.
First of all the incremental investments in IT and business systems was worth about $5 million in the quarter.
And that was a combination of both the Medical Business Transformation and other changes that we're making to our customer-facing systems.
For example we're dramatically improving our web-based ordering platform that's used both in the ambulatory setting and the hospital setting so that also drove a piece of that increase.
Regarding the impact of the Medical Business Transformation in '13 and beyond clearly that's one of the most significant drivers of margin growth and margin expansion in fiscal '13.
But I would say it's also alongside and complementary to all the other initiatives that we're already working on such as growth in our Ambulatory channel such as growth in our Preferred products including expansion of our sourcing in Asia and the additional services that we're providing to our customers in the acute setting and the other channels that we work in.
So I would say it's probably the major one but it's also very complementary and facilitates the growth in those other areas that I mentioned.
Our next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Jeff you called out the FX impact as we look at 2012 as a headwind.
Can you maybe talk about any tailwinds that you saw in this quarter around FX and the med-surg business? Yes.
Actually for Q4 FX was a relatively neutral impact.
Saw some slight benefit from our Canadian long exposure but equally offset by some of our exposure to manufacturing expenses in foreign locations given the continued weakness in the U.S.
dollar.
So that was a relatively neutral event.
And Lisa I think you asked a second question there which I've forgotten already.
And then the second question actually is more on the strategy side.
Maybe this is more for George.
George you did mention when you were talking about your drug distribution component -- talked about lab distribution.
Is that an area -- I know that you have a lab distribution business today.
Is it an area that you look to grow? And also as we look at capital deployment -- again not a lot of share repurchase in the guidance for 2012.
So can you maybe just remind us of areas that you would think about from an acquisition standpoint? You're obviously very successful last year with both Kinray and Yong Yu as acquisitions.
So let me start with the first part.
Our lab business has really been actually a very strong business of recent years.
We've got a terrific market position a very I would say technically consultative-driven selling organization and a very broad presence across the market.
So this continues an important -- to be an important part of our business Lisa.
It also connects to a lot of the other elements of channel management for our business.
And so we're really going to continue to drive our lab business.
As it relates to capital deployment again we try to reinforce this notion of a balanced approach to it.
Our goal is to make sure that we're in the strongest position in each of the markets where we want to compete and compete effectively and compete to win.
So we've highlighted some areas in our discussion that'll continue to be important to us.
Obviously Specialty continues to be important for us.
Growth in Ambulatory continues to be important to us growing our Preferred products capabilities and our Nuclear capabilities as we move towards PET.
So we'll continue to do some work there.
Obviously in China we want to make sure that we have both the scale and the geographic reach that positions us in the best position possible.
So these are all areas of focus.
Of course some of this will be -- or all of this will be the focus of our organic attention but to the extent that the right opportunities come up from an acquisition standpoint we're certainly -- we'll  consider those.
Lisa just a further detail on your question about lab.
Our lab revenue was up 6.5% in Q4 which actually it was pretty impressive given the overall sluggishness in utilization so continued good signs in that part of the business.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Muken with Deutsche Bank.
So a lot of happenings I guess with some of your key customers and so I was curious as to your thoughts on maybe some contract updates.
So obviously we saw the mega merger in the PBM space and so anything you want to sort of shed your light on or opine on sort of your view on your relationship with Express and in turn that transaction.
And sort of what you bring to the table that could argue for you to garner a significant share of that.
And then also on the CVS front if there's any update on Longs and maybe a potential relationship there? So -- yes a couple of pieces.
Again as it relates to the Express Script and Medco story as you know Express is a customer of ours and a good customer of ours.
But as you also know this is early days and beyond that there's probably not much I can or should say at this stage.
Let's let this thing play out.
Your second question was really about Longs.
And I guess I can't share a lot here but I can say that we have picked up -- we're pleased to have picked up incremental volumes from Long stores.
Okay.
Great.
And I guess maybe just going back to the guidance for a second here.
If you think about sort of how you executed this year versus your original guidance for '11 and then you think about sort of the plan you've put forward today -- I mean if you had to highlight maybe 2 or 3 points -- and I think Lisa pointed to it on the capital deployment side where we could see a delta versus the original forecast what you would you need to kind of over-execute on to really move the needle? And where do you see sort of the biggest sort of threats I guess on the lower end of the range? Why don't I let Jeff walk you through just a little bit of some of the sort of puts and takes as we look at the range.
Then I'll sort of come back with sort of a more general comment.
First of all I think your point about execution FY '11 is a great one Ross.
And obviously we're assuming that we continue to execute well in all of our priorities going into FY '12.
What could push us up towards the top end versus the bottom end I guess which is effectively your question.
I guess towards the top end even stronger generic performance than we have projected.
And in particular if generic launches come in stronger or more frequently than we have modeled that could clearly push us towards the top end of the range and beyond.
I think commodity prices are a big swing factor both in the positive and negative direction.
Obviously oil moving closer to $90 or into the $80s would be a very a positive impact on the second half of the year for us.
Likewise oil moving into $110 or $120 would have the opposite impact.
You mentioned capital deployment our base assumption for share repo is that the $250 million that we completed in July is the only repurchase that we do.
But depending on how the year turns out in terms of other uses of capital clearly we have authorization capacity remaining under our board approval of $500 million.
And as we continue to build our cash it's always an option that we would discuss with our board about buying back additional shares.
Brand inflation -- as we've said we projected or we modeled for this fiscal year that brand inflation will continue at about the same level that we saw in fiscal '11.
Clearly that could be a bit of a swing factor particularly in our quarterly results as I mentioned before.
Given our less independents on brand inflation than we've had historically each year that goes by it because less of a swing factor annually.
But given that price increases seem to be spread more and more out through the quarters and on somewhat unpredictable manner you could get swings quarterly year-on-year.
The LIFO assumption is another one that -- we modeled in a $15 million to $25 million charge.
It could be 0 or it could be higher than that depending on certain factors some of which are within our control some of which aren't such as the levels of brand inflation and generic deflation.
Generic deflation is another one that -- in terms of the overall economics of our Generics program that has a potential swing factor for us.
I would probably add Ross just a few things.
And Jeff really covered the big picture.
I think as you know Generics are very hard to be completely precise about both in terms of launches and deflation and it typically is really deflation on specific products.
And so you know our approach I think to doing this which is we use sort of a risk-adjusted model.
I think that has served us reasonably well over the recent years and we'll continue to use that approach.
Other than that again just -- perhaps a reminder of the obvious we really moved '11 faster and more dramatically than we had originally anticipated and so our feeling about the ability to grow '12 on top of that is -- well for us feels like the right trajectory.
Our next question comes from the line of Glen Santangelo with Crdit Suisse.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups on the Medical business.
Jeff I just want to follow up on your remarks about an $11 million charge in the quarter due to the inventory-related items.
Could you give us a little bit more detail about what drove that charge? Sure.
There were 2 major drivers: one was worth about $6 million -- $6 million to $7 million and it related to the change in estimation methodology for some of the self-manufactured products that we carry in our warehouses and the way we calculate the capitalized expense that's inherent in that inventory.
And we made a change in our estimate to more accurately reflect our current view of that inventory and that was worth $6 million or $7 million.
Second was we had some Presource kits in one of our warehouses that for certain reasons we don't think are usable and we decided to write them off.
Okay.
That's fine.
I just wanted to discuss the fiscal 2012 guidance in Medical in a little bit more detail.
I understand the commodity issue.
That seems pretty straightforward.
But I want to get a sense for maybe what you guys are modeling in terms of volumes and incremental investments that may be needed in fiscal '12.
And you're obviously calling out the FX -- the potential FX impact.
I'm trying to get a sense for how significant those are relative to what you saw in fiscal '11.
I'm trying to figure out how much of an incremental headwind it is because it seems like to me you're sort of forecasting that the Medical business is going to be down again year-over-year.
And I just want to make sure -- I'm trying to understand the magnitude so I can think about things that might ultimately go away in fiscal '13 like the investments for example.
So let me touch on a couple and I'll turn it over to George.
So on commodities the gross negative impact on our cost of goods sold is $80 million.
And I always emphasize the word "gross " because clearly we put actions in place to mitigate as much of that as we can.
And we have and will continue to offset a good portion of that.
But that $80 million compares to a gross headwind in fiscal 2011 of about $60 million.
The FX impact as I said is between $15 million and $20 million.
I believe that's slightly more than what we experienced in terms of the headwind in fiscal '11.
Those are the 2 biggest headwinds.
You also asked about volume.
As I said earlier and I'll let George comment further on this we are not being overly optimistic or aggressive in terms of how we're modeling volumes.
We're assuming sort of a continued sluggishness in utilization that we experienced in fiscal '11.
Yes.
Glen let me just sort of give a sort of broader perspective on that.
I think Jeff gave you the sort of components economically.
Let me just sort of put into context I guess the way I see the year.
Our Medical business really had to weather some environmental challenges with commodities and soft utilization particularly as the drivers.
But as our organization knows while this is some bad fortune there's no great path.
Like we understand -- our organization clearly gets that we're in a competitive market.
But having said that there's really for us a lot to feel good about.
And when I look at the performance of Medical and I sort of ask some questions about the underlying performance I focus on a couple of things.
One do we offer solutions that our customers need? Second are we gaining momentum in the market? Are we getting tougher to compete against? Are we positioning for the future as opposed to sort of thinking about solving old problems? And finally are we taking actions to drive margins? So when I look at those questions with all the puts and takes that Jeff just described I feel pretty solid about where we are.
And I can answer yes to those questions.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Rhyee with Cowen.
LLC</strong> I just wanted to maybe touch on Medical here sorry about this.
But if I think about this commodity price headwind that we're talking about and it sounds like it's really coming from the manufacturing side of the business am I right to understand that what's really happening is that you're not able to pass on the pricing increase from commodities that's in your manufacturing costs to your end customers? And if that's the case because -- George you're talking about the underlying performance of the business which sounds more on the distribution side to your hospital clients.
Is there any thoughts to think back whether you need to be manufacturing products as well? Yes.
A fair question.
Obviously as you can imagine we look at this portfolio question all the time.
We actually feel very good about the competitive differentiation this gives us both in margin rates and in flexibility.
So in fact those manufactured products today continue to be important drivers.
I'd love for us not to have to deal with the headwind this year but there are other times that it's been working as a tailwind for us.
So we really look at this and we look at it regularly.
But I feel very good about where we are today.
But you should assume that we'll continue to always explore the question of whether ownership of those assets has been official.
Today I would say strategically and economically we would still answer yes.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Great.
And maybe as follow up Jeff you talked about the headwinds.
If I understand correctly the impact on commodity prices you see it as a lagging effect right? So we're still kind of hitting the -- getting the impact of pricing -- of the prices that rose let's say 1 to 2 quarters ago.
Can you give us a sense on -- when you talk about this $80 million headwind how we should maybe see it as it progresses through the year? Should we get more of an impact here in the next quarter and then maybe it eases up a little bit? Anything around on sort of that progression will be helpful.
Sure.
Let me go back to your prior question first and then I'll address your second one.
By the way just to emphasize again the $80 million is a gross headwind that -- which means it's before any mitigating actions we may take such as pricing or mix changes or manufacturing cost reductions or material changes et cetera.
So it's sort of a starting point and then we identify specific initiatives to begin to offset it.
I want to be clear about that.
Included in that offset are some pricing increases.
We are very strategic and tactical about how we do that.
And in some cases we can in other cases it's a longer-term process.
But clearly passing on pricing to some of our customers is one of the tools that we have and will utilize to offset some of these commodity price increases.
In terms of the timing interestingly it's fairly evenly spread over the year perhaps the negative impact -- perhaps a little bit more concentrated in Q2 and Q3 and that's just the way the year-over-year comparison worked out.
But that $80 million I'd say as a general statement it's fairly evenly spread.
LLC</strong> And just one quick clarification.
You're saying the $80 million is a gross number.
When we compare that to the $60 million from fiscal '11 was that $60 million also a gross number? Yes it was.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
George obviously Specialty seems to be a big focus for fiscal '12.
I just wanted to go back and get a better understanding of how you guys view that market specifically specialty distribution.
Is this really more of a market share game play or are there actually untapped areas on the distribution side that you guys are targeting? First again the Specialty business covers a broad group of services specialty distribution is one of them.
So again I just want to remind you that in our mix the programs that we do to support bio companies -- biopharmaceutical companies -- the programs that we're doing to improve practice management the Pathways programs these are all sort of a big part of our service model and specialty distribution is one of them.
I think primarily here it's about building scale and building presence.
What has been happening lately is we're getting momentum and sort of momentum builds momentum in a sense.
And so I think we've made it very clear that this is a place we're going to be.
We're going to compete effectively and we expect to grow.
I'm not sure that there are unique areas necessarily that people don't know about.
I think it's largely about having the right relationships and the right practice management offices and taking advantage of those opportunities.
But it is largely about building presence building scale and we'll continue to drive that.
Great.
And just one quick one on the Pharma side.
Obviously there's some rather large and important generic launches in your fiscal '12.
I was wondering if you guys had any incremental compliance programs or concepts that you're going to put in place specifically in relation to your retail independent customers to make sure that when they are buying these important generic launches that they are buying them through Cardinal? Yes.
I think the answer is yes.
As you might understand it's not something that we'd necessarily share in a public setting.
But yes we're very aware obviously of the big products in front of us.
Our customers are very aware.
This system is very aware.
And so we'll just want to make sure that our customers are in a position to be very effective in their delivery of key generic drugs to their patients.
And we've got a lot of things working to create benefit for them and the ways to facilitate and incentivize.
Our next question comes from the line of A.J.
Rice with Susquehanna Financial group.
LLLP</strong> Maybe first just there's a lot of inputs here.
I won't put pen to paper as I'm sure everyone else will to try to come up with something.
But any comments about overall margin expectations or bracketing expectations around the 2 main business lines Pharma and Medical going into 2012? It's Jeff.
Good question.
Without getting too specific I think the reality is in order to achieve the goals we have for ourselves a continued focus on margin expansion has to be there.
And we need to continue to make it a priority for both Pharma and Medical.
And virtually all the things we're doing in both of those businesses are very much geared towards not only growing the top line but perhaps even more importantly growing gross margin and growing gross margin rate and operating margin rate.
So it'll continue to be a focus going forward in both segments.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then just I guess on your guidance you've obviously made a lot of progress in the working capital in the last 2 years.
Are there any assumptions about further gains there? And you mentioned the credit facility being redone.
Has that changed meaningfully your effective borrowing rate? Maybe those 2 data points.
No it hasn't.
And actually we draw upon that credit facility very infrequently usually only during brief periods of peak needs during quarters.
So even if it was a dramatic change in the rate I'm not sure you'd necessarily see it flow through the income statement.
I will say however that in the new $1.5 billion facility that we negotiated our -- both of our undrawn and drawn rates are lower than they were previously which is great news and I think reflects the growing and continued strength of our business.
Regarding working capital yes we made some great strides in the past couple of years.
I think in total we've taken somewhere between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion of net working capital out of the business in total.
Getting more efficient our working capital will continue to be to be a focus although I will say given the growth projections that we have in certain parts of our business like Specialty like China and some of the new customers that we have taken on that will drive growth I would actually expect working capital next year probably not to see the sort of gains that we've seen previously and quite likely will be a slight increase next year.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci with Lazard Capital Markets.
Two questions I had.
One I think you mentioned independent market share is up or the growth is stronger than the market I guess even ex Kinray.
So I'm wondering if you're seeing any particular regional strengths or if you can get any granular on maybe where some of that business is coming from? And then number two I was wondering if you had any comments or wanted to opine at all on the LIPITOR possibility of it going over-the-counter? Okay.
So Tom it's George.
Let me take the first one.
I would have a hard time describing a particular regional distribution of our improvement on our independent business.
I think our footprint is national.
I would say our tools that we deploy we deploy on a national basis.
And I think our overall presence our attention to this area of the business is done in a very broad-based way.
So I would have a hard time pointing to any particular areas that stand out one versus the other.
I think it's a broad-based -- on LIPITOR that is a tough one to answer.
You know that this has been a subject of discussion on some level for more than a decade.
And it's a hard one to weigh.
I would say switches are not easy.
This has -- is a product with an enormous amount of data.
That's sort of good news and bad news as some of them go through this regulatory process.
So I would have a hard time really giving you a I think today an incredibly well-informed answer other than it is a product that as you know that statins in some markets are available either through a third class of drug or through some other mechanism without a prescription.
But I'm not sure how I'd cap that.
We're certainly not building it into our assumptions.
We're assuming this remains a prescription product and that come November that there's a generic launch.
Our next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
One question on the increased volumes from new customers.
Is this exclusive to the independent market or are you seeing new growth in other channels as well? No this is actually not just exclusive to the independent channel.
We're having through a good number of our businesses some encouraging new business and so it's going to be distributed to different parts of our business.
And that's true in both Medical business as well as the Pharma business.
And then secondly when you put together the guidance and you mentioned that you're assuming 2 generic manufacturers in LIPITOR on the launch how do you think -- what are you factoring into your assumptions and what happens with the generic drugs after -- on day 181? At this point again I'm probably not going to share all the details of our modeling partly because that is still to evolve Ricky.
I think we can feel comfortable sharing with you our launch assumption which is that there'll be 2 players in November.
It is going to be very interesting to see what happens on day 181.
As you know they're not today a large line of tentatives awaiting approval.
So we're still working through our assessment here as you would imagine given the timing this is not a particularly meaningful issue for us for our fiscal '12 but certainly one that we'll provide more color on as we feel like we get more information.
And certainly as it relates to '13 it will become more relevant.
Our next question comes from the line of John Kreger with William Blair.
Just a follow-up question on some of the utilization comments you've made.
If you look back over the last 3 months have you actually seen utilization trends getting worse? And also if you look across your Medical portfolio where and what types of procedures are you seeing the most sluggishness in? So this is George.
I'll give you a little bit more color without going into too much detail.
I would say in the general medical business it is not a noteworthy change.
So if you look at hospital inpatient outpatient procedures small dips up and down throughout our Q4 or our calendar Q2.
The doctor's office data in June was actually down more strikingly but it was also up during one of the months of the quarter.
So I -- we tend not to get too nuts about a month-to-month swing.
We'll watch for longer-based trends.
We look at it over a longer time horizon.
So I would say for us we didn't see a material change although I'd say that the doc office numbers for June were lower.
That's very helpful.
And then my follow-up relates to pricing.
You've had some nice -- sounds like new customer wins on across both of your segments.
What sort of pricing dynamics are you seeing? And as that new incremental business folds in is it kind of coming in can we assume at an average margin or perhaps below average? Well it's hard to answer that.
We have as you know so many businesses and so many competitive dynamics.
Here's my general sense.
On our Medical business we've worked extremely hard at building out a portfolio of products and services for our customers that differentiate us.
And so the truth is we're not leading with the price story.
We're leading with the value story.
We think that as pressure continues to build in the system as more patients come in and we have this population health issue driving more demand that it's important for us to be able to demonstrate to our customer that the we can help them manage their cost.
That's not just about price.
That's about creating value through different tools whether or not that's deploying OpEx people in a hospital in an oncology office providing practice management tools.
So I would say for us it would be hard to describe a unique pricing dynamic today in any of our markets.
It's always competitive but we work very very hard at making sure that our lead is valued.
And if we're going to continue to drive margin forward that has to be the story.
I will say that the profitability in a particular account may be less linked to the actual upfront pricing and more linked to the range of products and services that they choose to buy from us and what we can offer to them.
And I think what's particularly encouraging is that the more products and services that they buy from us not only do we have better profitability but the customer has lower overall acquisition costs and cost of managing the supply chain so sort of a win-win for those customers.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
George you've changed the basis for presenting your earnings to the adjusted metric.
Has management incentive compensation for the next fiscal year changed at all as well? Basically we'll just re-base each of the components.
So from a net change it has no impact on us so we'll just recast all our numbers.
We'll continue to drive other things based on the priorities you heard us talking about.
We'll be driving off apples-to-apples comparisons.
And anything else to add Jeff? Our target growth percentage year-on-year that we've been challenged with as a management team didn't change.
It's just the target and the base year both came down.
But the percent that we have to deliver is consistent.
I guess my concern Jeff would be if you take out the amortization number then maybe deal premiums are not being factored in as closely in terms of incentive compensation.
Absolutely not.
First of all if we do a deal in the middle of the year we don't get to count that towards achieving our target for the year.
Our target is based on a set of businesses that we had at the beginning.
Secondly one of the key measures for us is total shareholder return and that takes into account all the elements.
And the final thing I'd say is when we're evaluating a deal the most important metrics to us are NPV and IRR and return on capital.
And we haven't changed how we define those.
Our next question comes from the line of George Hill with Citi.
Maybe to hit on the Medical segment one more time and ask this another way.
Is your assumption that commodity costs moderate in fiscal 2012 or basically that they stay flat or that they continue to deteriorate? We've -- it depends on the commodity by the way.
So we've assumed that over the course of the year oil fluctuates between $100 and $105 and that was really based on the latest forward curves that we have according to the indexes that we look at.
For latex and cotton we actually see a slight decline over the course of the year even versus current spot.
And clearly versus the rates that we saw in FY '11 which was really spiked up during the middle of our fiscal year.
And then there's a variety of other components many of which oil derivatives that have their own index.
And each of those is slightly different.
Some are expected to deteriorate based on the index and some are expected to improve.
So that overall $80 million gross headwind is really a weighted compilation of all those.
Okay.
And maybe a quick follow-up.
I don't know if you'll be comfortable discussing this but on the dual source launch of the generic LIPITOR that's expected in November 11 given that impairment do you have any -- would you be able to give us any color on where you expect the drug to launch in price kind of with respect to discount reference with the AWP level? Yes.
George that's probably not something at this point that we can provide color on.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Coldwell with Baird.
You mentioned on the prepared remarks that Kinray is doing better than your original expectations in terms of the accretion outlook.
I'm curious whether you can talk about the dynamics behind that whether it's account retention cost reduction and efficiency sourcing leverage combination of the above.
Maybe if you could help us get a sense on what's going better than expected there.
Sure Eric.
Why don't I start now and then Jeff can jump in if there's some things to add.
I would say the good news is largely all of the above.
We told you from the beginning that customer retention was very important to our model.
We've done extremely well so we're really pleased with that.
Our synergy work had turned out to be good.
Our due diligence I think was  pretty well done.
And we've been able to achieve those numbers.
And our team is executing very well there.
We are still -- believe that there's more opportunity there as it relates to integration but it's really been sort of an across the board a good story.
And we're really pleased  with the way it's unfolded.
I don't know what you might want to Jeff.
When we did the original model the 2 biggest factors that we knew by far that were going to determine the success or not of this acquisition were customer retention and generic sourcing leverage.
And in both cases we're doing materially better than we modeled and that really is what drives the economics of this deal.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette with UBS.
A couple of questions here.
I guess first on the SG&amp;A.
If we ignore the segment breakdown for a moment and focus just on the overall SG&amp;A in the income statement it was a pretty big acceleration in SG&amp;A growth in the back half of fiscal '11.
I think it was some 16% in fiscal 4Q in particular.
It's kind of hard for us to know for sure what's in COGS and SG&amp;A when you talk about the segments.
I guess the question is what was the primary component that drove the SG&amp;A growth in fiscal 4Q? And what's the way to think about SG&amp;A expenditure growth in fiscal '12 and just in terms of normalized growth versus additional discretionary.
And again just ignoring segments just overall SG&amp;A just trying to get a little more color thinking about it that way.
Sure.
Good question.
And clearly it's something we look at about very carefully because remaining focused on limiting the growth of our core SG&amp;A is clearly an important part of our business model.
So we look at the total growth in Q3 we had SG&amp;A growth of 11.5%.
The vast majority of that was related to the acquisitions.
In Q4 we had SG&amp;A growth of about 16% more than 50% of that was related to acquisitions.
There were some other drivers including increased EIT spend which really reflects some of the investments that we've been making throughout the business in IT and just the year-on-year comparison of the expense portion of that.
We also made some important strategic investments to accelerate the growth of certain of our businesses.
In Specialty for example which we're still very focused on ramping up this is an important investment stage.
And we will continue to invest very aggressively there to make ensure that we deliver on our expectation.
Likewise in China we continue to invest to grow some of these new businesses.
I will say that these new business units that I described earlier where we're selling and distributing consumer health products to retail pharmacies although we did ramp up spending considerably there to grow our sales force and management team it actually was profitable in Q4 despite that ramp ups.
And then there were the usual things like bad debt reserves et cetera in Q4 that drove a piece of it.
But it's a great question.
And rest assured internally we look at each of these items very carefully and also strip some of this noise out to make sure the core SG&amp;A growth rate in the business is as close to flat as we can make it.
Okay.
And just one other quick question here.
Just curious to get a little more color on what's driving the LIFO charge assumption in drug distribution in fiscal '12 especially in the year of big generic launches.
So that does wipe out some $0.04 to $0.05 of earnings.
Does this mean your expecting this be bigger brand drug inflation to remain quite high? Or I guess what's driving that? Part of it is and explaining LIFO which I just spent a great deal of time doing with our board.
It's always a long story.
But let me just spend a few minutes on it because it is an important part of our business.
Part of whether we have a LIFO expense really starts with the reserve with which we start the year.
The past couple of years we've been in a net LIFO debit position.
And we're in a debit position we actually don't record income or expense.
It's only once we've switched to a credit reserve position that you begin recording expense or income.
We started FY '11 with a net debit reserve of over $30 million and we ate up most of that during the year actually ended up the year with net debit of $7 million.
So our cushion for error -- or cushion going into FY '12 is substantially reduced.
It's technically 0.
So that's probably the biggest reason why we're projecting some level of LIFO expense in FY '12.
Because any movement from that will result in an expense.
And then there's operational factors driving it with the addition of Kinray and the branded inventories associated with Kinray that creates some additional LIFO exposure.
And then we have to make certain assumptions regarding generic deflation and brand inflation and the level of inventories that we'll carry.
Yes I think you're correct in your assumption that if all else was equal the fact that some big brands are going off patent next year may actually reduce our LIFO exposure but all those other factors I just described also have to go into the mix and net net when we sort of ran our forecast we came up with a projection of between $15 million and $25 million.
And that's really our best guess at this point.
Okay.
And just one other quick one if I can squeeze it in just on the drug distribution you provided a revenue growth excluding acquisitions.
Did you provide provide the EBIT or the profit growth in drug distribution excluding the acquisitions? I did actually.
Let me just -- so the overall Pharma segment growth for Q4 was 14% and excluding acquisitions it was about 18%.
Our final question comes from the line of Helene Wolk with Sanford C.
Bernstein.
This is Zach Sopchack [ph] filling in for Helene.
I just had a quick question on Yong Yu.
It sounds like you had really good growth rates for Yong Yu for the quarter.
I was just wondering how that compares to  historical growth rates and what you see for potential growth going forward? And then margins in the business since it's got a very different business mix than your U.S.
business how we should think about margins and potential margin expansion? I would say the revenue growth rate is comparable to perhaps slightly above what they've seen historically there which reflects some of the increased investments we've made in the business and the focus on it.
And in an overall environment that's doing very well as well.
In terms of margin as we said before the Chinese business just given the mix and the types of customers and just the maturity of the business tends to have a higher margin both the gross margin and operating margin than what we see in our U.S.
Pharmaceutical distribution business.
This concludes our Q&amp;A session for today.
I would now like to hand the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
Thanks to everyone for joining us today.
I know this was a little bit earlier than you're used to having with us.
And we appreciate your flexibility.
We would just close by saying we appreciate all your support during the year.
We're real excited about the period coming in front of us very proud of the year that we just completed.
But it's behind us and on to the future.
So thank you for your time this morning and we'll look forward to talking to you soon.
Thanks.
Thank you for attending today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 Cardinal Health Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I'd like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Matthew Blake Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Stephanie and welcome to Cardinal Health First Quarter Fiscal 2012 Conference Call.
Today we will be making forward-looking statements.
Matters addressed in the statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to the SEC filings and the forward-looking statements slide at the beginning of the presentation found on the Investor page of our website for a description of risks and uncertainties.
In addition we will reference non-GAAP financial measures.
Information about these measures is included at the end of the slides.
Before I turn the call over to Chairman and CEO George Barrett I would like to remind you of a few upcoming investment conferences and events in which we will be webcasting.
Notably the Crdit Suisse Healthcare conference on November 9 in Phoenix and the Oppenheimer Healthcare conference on December 13 in New York.
The details of these events are/or will be posted on the IR section of our website at cardinalhealth.com.
So please make sure to visit the site often for updated information.
We look forward to seeing you at the upcoming events.
I also want to point out to you that we will be filing in early November 3 documents with the SEC.
Our Q1 10-Q and 8-K which will include the results from our November 2 Annual Shareholder Meeting and will reflect the reclassification of amortization of acquisition related intangible assets from distribution selling general and administrative expenses to acquisition-related costs on the income statements and the exclusion of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets from segment profit and the last filing is an S8.
Pending shareholder approval on November 2 the S8 will be filed to registered shares that maybe issued as compensation pursuant to the 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to George Barrett.
Thanks Matt and good morning everyone and thanks to all of you for joining us on our first quarter call.
We're off to a good start in this new fiscal year and I'm encouraged to see strong execution on our key operational and strategic initiatives.
We've created an increasingly balanced healthcare business model that in a shifting landscape better leverages our core strength and drives value for all of our customers business partners and shareholders.
Revenue for the first quarter was up 10% to $26.8 billion and non-GAAP operating earnings increased to $442 million a 16% increase.
This translates to a non-GAAP EPS of $0.73 an increase of 11% over the prior-year period.
As noted in our release this profit performance was driven by continued excellent results in our Pharmaceutical segment.
While both the Pharmaceuticals and Medical segments recorded revenue growth of 10% our Pharma segment grew profit 19% over the prior year more than offsetting the anticipated 5% decline in our Medical segment profit.
I want to underscore the fact that both of our segments recorded strong sales gains in the period.
Our growth initiatives continue to gain momentum and last year's acquisitions are yielding results at or above target.
Business fundamentals are strong.
We are managing our balance sheet with discipline generating approximately $500 million in cash during the quarter.
This  past quarter we increased our quarterly dividend payment by 10% and share repurchases totaled $200 million.
As part of our balanced capital deployment strategy we have continued to pursue acquisitions which allow us to create value by extending our core capabilities through scale and reach or which leverage our capabilities by creating access to adjacent sectors for markets.
The planned acquisition of Futuremed for approximately $155 million announced this past Tuesday morning actually accomplishes both.
Futuremed is Canada's leading healthcare supplier for long-term care facilities.
This business complements our existing acute-care medical and surgical platform in Canada and enhances our ability to serve Canadian patients across the healthcare continuum.
Our goal is to close this transaction before January 1 2012 and when completed this acquisition will be reported as part of our Medical segment.
Now let me provide some color on each segments' performance in the quarter.
Our Pharma segment had another excellent quarter.
Our 19% segment profit growth was driven primarily by the Pharma distribution business.
Strong generic performance and contributions from Kinray and Cardinal Health China acquisitions as well as from our Specialty Solutions businesses drove an 11-basis-point margin expansion.
All of these businesses continue to perform very well and the integration of the acquisitions into Cardinal Health is largely complete.
As we drove down into the Pharma distribution business our efforts to rebalance our business mix both customer and products continue to bear fruit.
In this year's first quarter our non-bulk sales represented 57% of total Pharmaceutical segment sales versus 53% in the prior year's first quarter.
Our generic revenues grew by 8% versus the prior year.
This is more modest growth than in recent quarters where we anticipated this given the limited number of new launches and a steeper wave of inflation coming from some key products which experienced new competition.
We've continued to work closely with our branded pharmaceutical partners to develop tools which enable their strategies including our work in specialty which I'll come back to in a moment.
Our recent agreement with GlaxoSmithKline which leverages our new platform in China is a great example of our collaboration with biopharmaceutical companies.
Through our enhanced cold-chain distribution capability we will help GSK expand its vaccine distribution network and geographic coverage as well as insure the safety and quality of the vaccines.
Turning to our Nuclear business although raw material supply levels have been back to normal for some time market demand for low-energy products has not returned to pre-shortage levels.
This is associated with the general softness in low-energy cardiac imaging utilization rates.
However we continue to see solid progress in positron emission tomography or PET sales while supporting numerous clinical trials with our Pharma partners for new biomarkers and laying the foundation for future growth.
We're moving into more kiosk markets with 3 new PET manufacturing facilities targeted to open this fiscal year.
Our Center for the Advancement of Molecular Imaging announced during our August call is up and running.
Our Specialty Solutions business has begun to accelerate as we build out our product offerings expand our customer base and recruit critical foundational talent.
The business delivered a revenue increase of 29% driven by the growth in our legacy Specialty businesses and the increasing traction in our new specialty offerings.
We are pleased to report that we have added a dozen new provider customers during the quarter including 2 very large ones Augusta Oncology and South Carolina Oncology Associates the largest oncology practice in the state.
In addition to utilizing our GPO benefits these customers will also have access to our expertise in business intelligence information and clinical support solutions.
We have some exciting new payor wins including Keystone Mercy Health Plan a new customer in oncology.
Our fee-for-healthcare business will be teeming with this managed healthcare plan to launch an evidence-based program to improve cancer care for Medicaid patients in Southeastern Pennsylvania.
I continue to be very encouraged by our building momentum in Specialty.
Turning to our Medical segment.
Solid revenue growth of 10% for the Medical segment was achieved primarily through increased sales to both new and existing customers as well as from a few unique items that Jeff will touch on later.
In spite of the published reports of sluggish or uneven utilization the segment recorded revenue growth across all of its businesses and continued to build on relationships with existing customers.
We offer a unique set of solutions at a time when customers are seeking new ways to compete in a shifting healthcare landscape.
The ratio of wins to losses is of increasing confidence that we are positioning thoughtfully for the future.
Having said that Medical segment profit -- operating profit was down 5% as anticipated negatively affected by the challenge of higher year-over-year commodity costs which Jeff will discuss in more details.
We did however experience a challenge which was not anticipated in our Presource kitting business.
As we've been communicating for the past several months we have been experiencing issues with kits imported from our Juarez Mexico facility being detained by the FDA and as a result have been making a number of changes to our component documentation processes for our Presource kit both imported and those assembled domestically.
Today I want to provide some further background on the issue and update you on the status.
Over the past few months the FDA began requesting certain information related to the documentation associated with each individual component contained within all of our Presource medical kits assembled at our Juarez facility.
For over 25 years we have been following the typical industry practice for supplier certification in medical kitting with the expectation that our FDA-registered suppliers bore the responsibility for the individual product certification.
Given that we've placed over 10 000 components in our tens of thousands of kits we were not able to immediately meet this documentation request.
We've worked with FDA throughout August and September to comply with this request instituting significant enhancement to our documentation processes.
At the same time we worked with customers and the FDA to mitigate and manage any potential customer interruption which could result from any kit assembly delays.
We are now through the heavy lifting on this but we did absorb additional costs associated with our remediation plan and our enhanced processes.
This negatively affected first quarter profit by approximately $11 million.
We are now operating at full capacity and are working closely with customers to fully replenish inventories.
The industry landscape is changing and this is just another example.
And while this situation has been enormously challenging for us and for our customers the actions we've taken have positioned us well to lead the market in an environment in which higher standard will be the norm.
We appreciate the enormous support of our customers in this period.
We thank our employees for their unwavering dedication.
They have worked around-the-clock for weeks to make sure that patient care was the highest priority.
While meeting this challenge in the quarter the Medical segment continued to move forward.
We signed renewals on a number of large agreements.
We made excellent progress with OptiFreight our full-service freight management program where we help customers achieve freight cost reductions through our in-depth knowledge of logistics and freight transaction data.
And the growth of our Preferred products business is making a positive mark on the segment margin rate.
The Ambulatory Care channel continued to see excellent growth of 15% with particular strength in surgery centers.
We also had solid growth in the physician office channel expanding our sales team and adding expertise in a number of areas including pharmaceuticals and laboratory products.
And our Canadian Medical/Surgical business had another strong quarter with revenues growing by more than 14%.
Our organization is pushing hard to innovate our marketplace.
This work is reflected in some new products.
We launched our new [indiscernible] Protexis gloves a latex powder-free hydrogel surgical glove.
We also signed a new agreement with one of our largest hospital operators in the U.S.
for SurgiCount our safety-sponge system that will now bring the safety-enhancing surgical products to more than 200 hospitals.
And we have just gained the exclusive distribution rights for MicroPhage a Colorado-based company to their new KeyPath MRSA/MSSA Blood Culture Test.
This is a unique tool which provides same-day antibiotic susceptibility and resistance results for these deadly infections.
As I've said before innovation is an important lever for our continued success and these are just a few examples of the ways in which innovation can make the healthcare system safer and more cost-effective.
Although I covered our Pharma segment a few minutes ago I thought I would conclude with some comments on our China business.
I just returned from a recent trip to visit our operations there.
During my trip we celebrated the opening of a new state-of-the-art distribution center in Shanghai.
We now have 9 distribution centers in the country from the Chinese market.
Our business in China continues to form ahead of plan.
We will remain focused on executing on our core business there expanding our business geographically and on adding business lines including lab distribution retail support and medical products.
And Jeff will talk more about China during his remark.
Finally I'd like to welcome David King CEO of LabCorp to our Board of Directors.
Dave is a terrific leader with enormous healthcare experience and we're proud that he has agreed to serve on our Board of Directors.
In summary while I'm very pleased that our business is off to a good start to the new fiscal year I'm equally excited to see that our investment in our strategic priority areas including specialty positron emission tomography generics ambulatory preferred medical products in China are going extremely well.
Our progress in these areas provide increasing confidence that we're taking the right steps to continue to deliver growth and value to all our stakeholders.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks George.
Good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to be discussing a solid start to fiscal 2012.
My focus today will be on some financial trends and drivers of our Q1 performance then I'll touch briefly on our full-year outlook.
Let's start with Slide 4.
During the quarter we grew our non-GAAP EPS by 11% to $0.73 per share driven by 10% revenue and 16% non-GAAP operating earnings growth.
$26.8 billion of revenue recognized in Q1 is another all-time high for Cardinal Health.
Even if you exclude the year-on-your impact of mid-year fiscal '11 acquisitions it contributed about 5.3 percentage points.
Underlying sales growth is strong.
Although non-GAAP operating expenses were up 11% more than half of this growth represents the expenses added to the mid-year acquisitions.
But the sizable portion of the remainder relate to our continued focus on business system investments.
Consolidated gross margin and non-GAAP operating margin rates both increased year-on-year up 11 and 8 basis points respectively.
Interest and other expense came in $13 million higher than last year driven by moderately higher debt levels and the impact of the recent market downturn on the value of our deferred compensation plan which shows $7 million of other expense.
As a reminder losses in our deferred compensation accounts that are reflected in other expense were offset 1 for 1 by gains within SG&amp;A so have a net neutral impact on our P&amp;L.
Our non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 38.1% versus 37.1% last year.
The slightly higher rate this quarter reflects unfavorable net discrete items of $4 million versus a net favorable of $3 million in the prior year and the unfavorable effect of changes in income mix.
Finally fair build in our share count versus last year which is driven by a $300 million of share buyback we completed in July and August.
Our share count in Q1 was about 349 million diluted average shares outstanding versus 352 million in the prior year's quarter.
As shown on Slide 10 we've now reduced our share count outlook for the full year to 352 million from 353 million.
This reflects the $50 million of additional share repurchase we opportunistically completed in the quarter beyond our initial guidance assumptions of $250 million.
Now let me comment on consolidated cash flow in the balance sheet.
We had operating cash flow of approximately $500 million in Q1 driven by our strong earnings performance and further working capital reduction.
Much of the working capital improvement came in the form of inventory efficiencies generated from transitioning Kinray to our National Logistics Center a noteworthy milestone in our integration plan.
Overall our net working capital days ended the quarter at 7.5 days versus 8.3 in the prior year.
We ended September with approximately $2 billion in cash of which about $300 million is held overseas.
This cash balance does not include our investments in held-to-maturity fixed-income securities which are classified as other assets on the balance sheet and totaled $131 million at quarter-end.
We continue to deploy our capital in a prudent bounce and opportunistic manner keeping sight of our identified strategic priorities.
On top of the $300 million of repo in the quarter we increased our dividend payments by 10% and made $44 million of capital expenditures mostly in IT.
And as announced on Tuesday we've initiated a tender offer to acquire Futuremed in Canada utilizing our overseas cash in a strategically and financially attractive manner.
This $165 million acquisition which includes $40 million in debt is a great example of identifying tuck-in opportunities that enhance our existing businesses.
We anticipate this accretive transaction to close before July 1 2012.
And finally on a related note I'm happy to report that Moody's just upgraded our ratings outlook to positive recognizing the continuous improvements in our business profile.
Now let's move to Q1 segment performance referring primarily to Slides 5 and 6 and starting with our Pharma segment.
Revenue in the segment increased 9.6% with the Yong Yu and Kinray acquisitions we completed mid last year contributing 5.7 percentage points to this growth rate.
Let me walk through a few of the drivers.
In our Pharmaceutical distribution business growth with existing customers was a strong driver.
We achieved close to 30% revenue growth in our Specialty Solutions business which continues to add customers and capabilities.
Within our Nuclear business we have seen continued positive momentum in customer wins despite the low energy market volume softness that George mentioned which has dampened growth in the cardiac imaging business to a much greater degree than we anticipated coming into the year.
Given the higher relative margin of this business this has a disproportionate impact on our earning projections for the remainder of fiscal '12.
Pharma segment profit margin rate increased by 11 basis points compared to the prior year's Q1 in part reflecting a mixed shift toward non-bulk that George mentioned.
We realized strong contribution from the Kinray and China acquisitions in the quarter.
As you might expect the actual contribution to segment profit growth is getting harder to calculate as we continue our Kinray integration effort and fold this business into our overall domestic platform.
But the benefit is estimated at a little over 10 percentage points in total from both acquisitions.
We continue to see strong contributions from the ongoing success of our generics programs even though there are notably fewer generic new item launches from the prior year's quarter.
Net generic deflation for our portfolio products was slightly steeper this year than last.
As George mentioned this was driven by certain newer generic products which were launched last year and they're experiencing steeper deflation at this stage in their life cycle.
I would note however that we did see some material inflation for certain more mature generic products.
Finally we know that a favorable resolution of certain open manufacture-related disputes was a positive driver of earnings in Q1 for Pharma.
Due primarily to our ability to successfully resolve a number of these outstanding issues during the quarter we realized a net $17 million benefit in this area a somewhat larger impact than we would typically see and somewhat unique to this quarter.
As an upside this amount represents the largest of the unique or nonrecurring items which were reflected in our consolidated Q1 non-GAAP results.
It was worth about a positive $0.03.
The other noteworthy items which were on the negative side of things include the medical Presource issue with both $0.02 and about $0.01 worth of net unfavorable discrete tax items.
Net-net the Pharma segment had another solid quarter resulting in an increase in segment profit of 19% to $363 million.
George touched on our China operations during his remarks and I also want to pause here for a moment to highlight this business which is now reflected in both of our reporting segments more on that in a moment but is most prominent within Pharma.
Our revenue in China was again very strong.
In particular we grew our local direct distribution business a key focus area by 28% during the quarter.
We completed a small tuck-in acquisition in August our first in China since establishing our platform last November to the Yong Yu deal.
This acquisition provides us with direct presence in the Sichuan Province key geographic area.
We'll continue to pursue additional acquisitions to expand our geographic presence in the country and have a number of smaller deals in the pipeline.
As George mentioned we opened our ninth distribution center in China during Q1.
We also continue to move forward in our evaluation and piloting of opportunities in other business areas.
In summary we continue to make great progress in China and remain very excited about the future of this platform.
Now turning to our Medical segment.
For the quarter revenue increased by 9.7% to $2.4 billion driven by increased sales for existing customers across all channels and net new customers.
Within this performance are a number of highlights: Volume from net customer wins was again positive in the quarter.
We saw a good increase in revenue from our Preferred products which is particularly noteworthy as it is occurring in what has been reported externally as a continuing sluggish surgical procedure market.
As we've highlighted in the past this is a key growth and margin expansion opportunity for us.
Another key growth opportunity we've highlighted is our Ambulatory business which also had another strong quarter.
Overall ambulatory revenue growth of 15% is driven by well-above market performance in both the surgery center and physician office channels.
And Cardinal Health Canada posted excellent revenue growth of more than 14%.
We also had a couple of unique items which amplified our reported revenue growth that I wanted to bring to your attention.
First is the ongoing effect of having transitioned our business with CareFusion with traditional brand of distribution model a move that we highlighted in our Q3 earnings call last year.
This change added 2 percentage points or $44 million to revenue and had the effect of depressing our segment profit margin rate during Q1 by 10 basis points.
Secondly heading into this year we also made a refinement in the way we report results for international commercial operations.
Previously our results for our Puerto Rico and China businesses were reported as part of our Pharma segment while Canada was included within the Medical segment.
As an enhancement and to be consistent with how we treat our U.S.
operation we are now splitting the results for these businesses based on the underlying business activity.
We're doing this now while our international businesses are relatively small in preparation for the future as they grow and become more relevant to both segment.
But for example our med/surg distribution activity in China will now be recorded as part of our Medical segment financial results instead of within Pharma.
I mentioned that international reporting change here because it contributed 1.7 percentage points to the Medical segment revenue growth rate in the quarter while having a relatively insignificant impact on segment profit growth.
Now turning to Medical segment profit which as we expected heading into the quarter declined 5% to $79 million primarily driven by the negative impact of commodity prices on our cost of products sold and the impact of the Presource kit issue which George described in more detail in his remarks.
Specifically commodity prices impacted our current period cost of goods sold by $18 million versus last year.
For the full year given the general reduction in commodity price levels since our last call we are now forecasting a gross headwind of approximately $70 million in FY '12 versus the $80 million reflected in our prior guidance which is a positive trend.
We have seen some significant recent reductions in cotton latex and oil.
However that rate of decrease has not yet been seen in the price of some of our oil derivative inputs such as resins.
And one of our key raw components used in gloves nitrile has increased in price due to process involvements.
But overall the positive movement is good to see.
At this point much of this $70 million headwind is now locked in due to the lagging effect between price movements and the corresponding impact on our cost of products sold.
Overpriced levels over the next couple months will be important as it relates to the impact in Q4 and beyond.
Related to the Presource matter we saw an impact of approximately $11 million in the quarter coming from inventory reserves incremental operating expenses and other related items.
I should note that this amount and any expected smaller residual impacts from our ongoing resolution plans are reflected in our fiscal '12 guidance range.
On the positive side of the ledger the effect of these negative items was partially offset by the impact of increased volume to existing customers at net new business as well as the margin benefit of increasing our sales of Preferred products.
One final but very important note on the Medical segment.
We successfully launched our Medical Business Transformation pilot at the beginning of October with no major issues.
We remain on track for national implementation in our fiscal second half.
Let's turn to Slide 7 which I'll just summarize.
In total GAAP results in the quarter include items that had negative $0.05 per share net after-tax impact primarily from the exclusion of $0.04 of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets of our non-GAAP results.
This compares to $0.18 of net benefit in our GAAP results last year mostly driven by $0.21 in gains on the sale of CareFusion stock.
Now let me briefly comment on our fiscal '12 full-year outlook.
We're maintaining our non-GAAP EPS guidance range at $3.04 to $3.19.
This range excludes any potential impact from the Futuremed transaction as we wouldn't typically reflect acquisitions in our guidance until they are closed.
As we consider the full-year outlook in the context of our first quarter results we remain positive about the year in front of us.
There are clearly a few puts and takes.
A Presource issue and a weaker-than-expected demand in nuclear low energy cardiac imaging are downsized to our original full-year expectations.
Our commodity prices lower share count and a favorable Q1 resolution on the Pharma manufacture-related issues should benefit the year.
Although there's just one quarter behind us there's still plenty of year to play out including some key factors such as generic launch timing and value generic deflation granted price increases and further commodity price movements.
One comment on the second quarter I'd like to make is to remind everyone that we expect Q2 to be our toughest period in terms of EPS growth rate due in large part to the abnormally low tax rate we had in the second quarter of fiscal 2011.
It also appears that Q2 might be the most difficult compare for the year-on-year commodity price impact within our Medical segment.
I'm going to wrap up by saying I am very pleased with how we started the year.
We continue to execute well in our base business and increase our momentum in our key strategic growth drivers positioning us well for the future.
Now let me turn it over to our operator to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Charles Rhyee with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I could just get a quick clarification the discrete items on the Pharma distribution that benefited $0.03 I kind of missed that.
Can you just kind of quickly go over that again? Sure Charles.
It was a $17 million of what I referred to as resolution of some open manufacture-related disputes.
And since this involves relationships with some of our business partners I want to be a little bit careful about how I describe this here.
But in general it's related to successful settlements of certain reserves that we've had on the books related to dispute of product returns to manufacturers.
And this is an issue actually that we referred to in our 10-K as third-party return reserves and we've had some type of reserve on our books of order [ph] for some time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay that's helpful.
The other day one of your peers obviously had a pretty strong results and part of their distribution results benefited from the timing of payments from branded manufacturers.
Can you talk about sort of the timing and how you see those payments coming to you? How does that flow through your -- through the quarters in the way you look at it? And how should we kind of expect that? How much benefit was that in this quarter? How should we see that over the next few quarters? Charles I really can't comment on our competitors' results.
But in terms of the impact on Cardinal I would say generally it's flowing through as we expected.
We didn't call it out as a major year on your driver either way.
And you're referring specifically to timing of branded price increases.
I would say generally price increases are happening in line with what we expected coming into the year and our forecast for the year in that respect remains pretty consistent with what we thought coming into the year and pretty consistent with the price increases we saw last year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And if I could just ask one last on nuclear here.
You kind of noted that your expectations for this segment are lower now than last quarter.
Can you give us a sense on the magnitude of that difference now in your expectations? Clearly you didn't change the guidance itself but maybe give us a sense within that.
How much of that -- how big of that is the delta do you think between your initial assumptions on utilization and today? Yes I'm not going to get into too much detail on that Charles other than to say that it's less about the year-on-year impact and more about it not growing as quickly as we would have expected coming into this year.
Clearly we have begun to see some momentum in the overall low energy market last year as we sort of emerged from the supply issues that we had experienced the year before.
We're expecting sort of a continued sequential and year-on-year rate of growth in the overall market demand.
And at least through Q1 that hasn't necessarily materialized for a number of reasons I imagine including perhaps the overall economic environment and the impact that may be having on utilization and the use of certain procedures et cetera.
So again it's really a market issue the overall market has not yet returned to the levels that we saw a couple years ago before the supply issue.
And we just want to make sure that we remain cautious about our expectations there.
I will point out however that in this relatively stagnant overall market we continue to gain share which is very important.
And also I'll emphasize that what I'm really speaking about right now is a low-energy cardiac market.
The PET business continues to grow quite well and we continue to remain certainly optimistic about the future of bio-tracers there that are in various stages of development.
Your next question comes from the line of Larry Marsh with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick elaboration on the puts and takes.
So I know at the beginning Jeff you talked about I guess FX being a bit of a headwind and then LIFO charge expectation as well as everything else.
Is there any other change in those expectations as you come through the sort of first quarter? No.
Previously we said that FX was going to be about a $15 million to $20 million headwind.
For Q1 it ended up being about a $5 million headwind and our revised forecast for the year is still pretty consistent with our original expectation.
For LIFO we said in the $15 million to $25 million range that's something that sort of evolves as the year goes on based on price increases both in the generic and branded side as well as our respective levels of inventory.
Nothing has changed so far this year to change that estimate at this point but that will play out over the next couple quarters.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just a -- I mean some of this is determining like Presource and then the settlement is really changing your outlook although it's sort of more onetime in nature as opposed to ongoing.
I mean it seems like the message really with Presource is there was an issue.
It's been resolved and you're pretty much back to normal.
Is that right? Yes our production levels are pretty much at 100% now.
Inventory levels have returned to close to normal.
We've been able to satisfy all of our customers' needs at this point.
So yes I would say largely the issue is behind us but clearly we had to put in some remedial measures which will have some slight impact going forward.
But I would say the vast bulk of the negative impact is behind us at this point.
But obviously it affects the full year.
Research Division</strong> I guess the second question is really on China broadly.
It seems like when you first announced Yong Yu as a great opportunity to get a footprint in China it seems like when we had the call with you guys in September and now today you talk about really broadening that footprint in different verticals.
You talk about the vaccine distribution issue with GlaxoSmithKline lab.
So is it fair to say that you've upsized the magnitude of the opportunity with China? And then from that really think about a much bigger footprint there than you would have suggested a year ago when you added Yong Yu? Larry it's George.
I think our perspective all along was that we wanted to be a meaningful player there.
So I'm not sure that we've upsized our expectations.
I think what's happened as we've -- it's a market where you learn a lot more every day.
And I think what we've really started to focus on is making sure that we grow our footprint geographically but also realize that there are opportunities of business lines.
Their historical strength has really been in pharma distribution and the services associated with that.
So as we've gotten deeper into the market there we've realized of course there is opportunity for geographic expansion and there's a consolidation process going on which we certainly want to participate in.
But we've also seen opportunities in things like medical supplies lab even some areas in retail that are evolving.
So we have always had a view of this that was with of some size and we felt like we could make a difference there and that's our goal.
Research Division</strong> And just to clarify then George when you think about the margin opportunity with China would you say it's comparable to your pharma supply chain domestically is it higher or lower as we think about it? We've consistently described it as somewhat higher than the pharma supply chain.
Although again ultimately that's going to depend on what mix of businesses we end up with there.
If we're just looking at core pharma distribution I'd say it's marginally higher than the U.S.
But ultimately when you look at the entire business it will depend on what the mix of businesses ultimately is.
How much for example lab distribution and med device distribution and our retail pharmacy support.
And it's still early in all of those various business line initiatives.
And I suspect that some of them will end up being quite successful others may not.
And ultimately how that plays out will largely dictate the margin evolution as well.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Ross Muken with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So can you give a little bit more color on your commentary regarding generic pricing inflation and changes you've seen with a few specific drugs? We've obviously heard different things about manufacturer-related issues and other facility-related issues on the generic side.
Can you just give a little bit more detail on sort of areas big picture where you're seeing it and sort of your expectations going forward? Sure I'll start.
This is one of the interesting areas because you have a lot of players who comment on it all from a different perspective and how it affects our business so we'll try to make sure that we're focusing on what we see.
As Jeff described overall again net-net the level of generic inflation was a bit higher during this period as compared to last year's same period.
This was largely the result of a couple of key products just hitting their stage of life cycle where they see more competition.
We expected this it was in our models not a surprise.
We are seeing some inflation stability and in some cases inflation on some of the more mature products.
Or in some cases as I've said before on sort of event-specific instances.
So we are seeing some inflation or early stability on some of the more mature products.
And whether or not that -- the conditions that drive that are varying actually.
But that's what we're seeing.
And as I said the overall effect because of those few bigger product sets that decline was slightly negative for the period.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And obviously we saw just quickly on the Futuremed side you made the purchase there.
How would you sort of characterize the M&amp;A landscape as you look at it today from a valuation standpoint or net attractiveness versus buying back your stock? Obviously we've seen market multiples come in and you've been doing most of your work in the private market although this was obviously a public deal.
Have we seen private operators get a bit more rational with expectations? And how has that sort of changed your view on cap deployment? Well first in general it is always very difficult to predict how a private seller sees valuation at any given moment.
As you know there are often family conditions that come into play personal issues.
So those -- it's very difficult to describe a trend or pattern as it relates to private sellers.
In terms of valuation it varies a lot as you probably know from sector to sector.
There's some that seem to get a lot of buzz and valuations get quite high and others that the general view is less enthusiastic about it and those are different.
But I'm not sure that I would describe -- certainly there's been some adjustment but it varies a lot.
We compete in a lot of different markets and so we see different valuations in different sectors.
Jeff I don't know if you want to add anything to that.
No in terms of the comparison to repo as an alternative that's sort of a continuous process right? We're always making that alternative and any time we look at a potential acquisition we run the scenario the alternative scenario if we use that cash to buy back shares what impact does that have on expected total shareholder return et cetera.
Obviously that depends on the potential price we're paying the economics of the transaction and our share price.
And so that's sort of a continually moving target.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess first one housekeeping item.
The $19 million sort of amortization can you just breakout where that was versus pharma versus the medical segment? And actually just to be clear now that we're excluding acquisition-related intangible amortization from our non-GAAP earnings it doesn't appear in either segment.
We actually are pulling it out of the segment and holding it at the corporate level for the purpose of our GAAP reporting I just want to be clear on that.
But if we were attributing it to the respective segments of that $19 million the vast majority would be pharma about $18 million of that would have been pharma.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect appreciate the clarification.
And then you're just wondering about utilization and what you see out there across the spectrum you've alluded to some sluggish areas as in nuclear and maybe some of the med/surg market underlying market being a little more sluggish.
Just curious how you would characterize it and if you see any inflection points over the course of the last quarter that we should be thinking about? Yes this is a good question Tom.
And as you probably heard in our commentary there is sometimes a disconnect between the data that we see publicly and the demand in our business which you know was quite strong at least quite solid I would say.
I would -- it depends on the area.
There was as quite a stretch of very soft data in the physicians' office market.
September actually saw a little bit of an uptick.
But I would say for quite some time that market has been soft.
The surgical procedure market -- again I would say on -- if you look at the public data it has been relatively soft over the past months.
We do see these month-to-month swings so I would describe the data as a little bit choppy.
I'm not sure that we can describe a trend break anywhere over these past few months.
I would say it's largely been the same.
Again September saw this uptick in the doc's offices but I'm not sure that we would necessarily draw a conclusion yet from that one piece of data.
So that's what we've seen.
IMS data I would say has been showing very modest prescription growth and our numbers obviously are showing a little better than that.
But that's what we're seeing in the public data probably much of the same data you're accessing.
Research Division</strong> Right just to be clear though relative to that public data that we've all seen it sounds like maybe you're suggesting your own market -- your own growth that you seen in terms of market trend is a little steadier and maybe the data is a little choppier along the way and there's really been no major inflection point that you can describe? Yes I would say that vast majority of our businesses have held up very well and have actually shown some pretty robust growth notwithstanding the external reports.
So a lot of those reports at least for Q1 didn't really manifest themselves and slowdown our volumes.
I would say the one exception to that was what we mentioned related to nuclear that within our own results for nuclear we definitely felt the effect of what appears to be a fairly soft market in the low-energy cardiac imaging area.
So I'd say that would be the one exception.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A lot of detail around pharma but I just want to dig into the margins a little bit.
I was wondering if Jeff you could maybe give us a little bit of insight on the difference from the margin expansion from mixed shift versus generics versus acquisitions.
Just trying to get a sense how to think about the run rate there.
Yes it's a -- I'm not going to get to too many specifics here.
And again for some of our acquisitions and Kinray is probably the best example the ability as I said to sort of distinguish between what's Kinray and what's the rest of Cardinal Health is getting extremely difficult as we continue to integrate them.
And just to give you a specific example right? As we increase our generic volume as a result of the Kinray acquisition and hence we're able to buy generics better how do we attribute that to the acquisition versus the core business.
And as I've said that's probably as much an art as it is science.
So I would say clearly the 2 acquisitions or 3 if you include the specialty which we did at the beginning of last year generally are all higher margin than the incumbent business.
So as they continue to grow in over the quarters they are definitely contributing to the margin expansion.
The exact percentage point or exact number of basis points I won't get into.
In terms of contributions from just general margin rates in general I guess the only other piece of detail I'd give you is that within pharma non-bulk margins were are up 11 basis points versus last year and bulk margins were down slightly 4 basis points.
So that might give you some idea about the relative mix there.
Research Division</strong> And then George just on specialty it looks like you guys added more large GPO oncology customers there.
How does this -- or I guess what is your expectation for these wins to translate into distribution? Well I think it's beginning to happen again.
We've said all along that this is going to take time that the key foundation in order to gain additional distribution in specialty is making sure that our presence in the oncology offices and the specialty offices is strong.
So every one of these wins in terms of providing tools for an oncology practice that helps enable them to do their work that provides clinical pathways everyone of those creates  a foundation for us to have the right to plan the distribution.
And we're beginning to pick up some of that business.
So I'm feeling optimistic that this business is starting to get a little bit of steam.
We're pushing it hard but we also know that it just take some time.
You don't walk in day one and have instant impact.
But I like where it's going and we're beginning to see some signs of momentum.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And if I could just sneak one in on the medical side.
It looks like the medical transformation pilot launch went off.
I know the full launch is upcoming.
Jeff is there cost that we should think about rolling off as we move into launch mode within the Medical segment? I would say not in launch mode.
I think really we're looking to FY '13 before we see a noticeable impact.
Clearly as we exit go -- into go-live some costs are going to ramp up as we complete the final preparations.
And then immediately after the national go-live there'll be a period of 60 to 90 days during what we refer to as hyper care where we're going to overinvest in certain resources to ensure that there's no hiccups and that our customers are properly served and that the system is working properly.
Once we get through that period which really is -- begins in FY '13 that's when those costs will all start to drop off obviously the depreciation will kick in as well for the project.
But more than offsetting that will be the significant benefits in the project throughout the medical income statement.
So I really think it's more of an FY '13 issue Bob.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> George you made a comment earlier that the industry landscape within med/surg is changing.
Can you maybe just talk about what you're seeing? The other day one of your competitors talked about the fact that what the customers' expectations are are different than what they were in the last few years and that there's going to be a bigger role around the relationship on medical supply distribution.
So first off can you talk about what you're seeing there? And then secondly you did talk about growth in ambulatory.
Is that an extension of some of your hospital relationships? As we're talking to some of the hospitals we continue to hear about them acquiring physician practices and growing out the number of physicians that they have relationships with.
So I'm just wondering how that's working.
Yes so you sort of -- the questions -- the 2 parts of the questions actually relate.
There really is a change.
It's been unfolding for quite some time and it will continue to unfold.
So most broadly if you look at the health system it's no longer just thinking about an acute care hospital.
You now have to think about an integrated healthcare system that has surgery centers and probably has a set of oncology practices it has doctors physicians practices which it either owns or is affiliated with.
And so what we're seeing is a broader need for value creation throughout the health system.
They all feel under a fair amount of pressure in the environment.
They know that as more people come into the system they'll continue to be under pressure to do what they do incredibly efficiently.
They're also going to be measured in different ways in terms of safety and quality and outcomes.
And so the ability to provide tools that touch on all those value drivers I think becomes increasingly important.
And so this sort of does touch to your second part of your question which is we are as you are seeing a growth in affiliation between IDNs and physicians offices.
And yes a good part of our growth in the ambulatory setting is coming from our very strong historical relationships with these integrated health systems.
Research Division</strong> So when I think about this from a financial perspective when you talk about increase to existing customers that's what you're talking about so more touch points? But if I back out all the things the detail that Jeff gave us on commodity prices and Presource kitting et cetera and I start to look at the underlying margin of your business it actually looks like the margins for medical supply are improving.
So as you take on more of this business is the margin actually better? Is there a leverage in the existing relationship where you can drive margins over time? Or is it something else that's driving the margin improvement? I think that's -- there are a number of things going on there that are driving improvement including our preferred products mix.
But I do think that you're touching on an important point which is that the margin that we gain will come from the value creation we bring.
That value creation runs deeper through these very integrated health systems and I think that probably is for us an opportunity to do what we do well and to gain additional margin.
We are seeing some of that already.
Your next question comes from the line of A.J.
Rice with Susquehanna Financial Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Maybe just first question following up on your comment about preferred products can you give us a flavor of -- or it sounds like that's growing faster than the underlying business.
So what percentage of the med/surg maybe does that represent today? And how much is growing faster? And what are the margin implications of that growing faster over time? A.J.
it's Jeff.
Thanks for the question.
So overall preferred products represent about 40% of the total sales within the Medical segment.
They did grow faster -- I'm sorry 20% of sales a little less than 40% of gross profit just to be clear.
They did grow faster than the underlying business during the quarter closer to 10% versus if you look at some of the underlying growth if you back out some of the unusual revenue items it was closer to 6%.
So it did grow faster than the underlying business.
Clearly when you look at the 20% revenue 40% gross profit profile any growth that we can have in preferred products particularly when its growing faster than the underlying business it's a very good thing for margin which is why it was a significant contributor to our margin growth in the quarter.
And we expect it to continue in that respect.
Yes I'd also add that to the extent that -- again if we assume that the market has been in a relatively soft stage for some time to the extent that you see any improvement.
These are areas -- particularly in the surgical suites this is an area where we have a pretty high rate of participation with preferred products.
So those are things that could be beneficial to us as we see any uptick at all in the surgical procedures.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay and just real quick is the second on Futuremed I know you said that you don't really bake anything in until it's closed conceptually is it sort of a neutral to this fiscal year and modestly positive to next year can you give us any flavor as to what it might be if you do close it? Sure.
Again it depends on when it closes during the year but assuming it closes per our expectations this year we expect it to be slightly accretive in fiscal '12 and then at least $0.04 accretive in fiscal '13.
Your next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on the bulk revenue.
I think that bulk accounted for about 43% of revenue in the quarter.
So my question is is this the steady state revenue mix we should be modeling or will bulk as a percent of the total revenue mix -- or distribution mix should come down as new generics come in? Ricky it's George.
It's a little bit of a hard equation because there is a part that is related as you described the swing from a branded product to a generic when the generic is launched.
But there's also dynamic which is that a number of our large national chains buy products both into their warehouses in bulk and into their stores in DSD.
That can vary from time to time.
And we don't necessarily control that.
This is really part of the operating model of the customers.
And so there's a bit of choppiness and variation in the way they do that so it's a little bit hard to describe an exact steady state.
I think the general direction for us has been to make sure that we try to balance increase the balance of our business to more DSD which we've been doing pretty successfully.
But it's a little bit harder to model an exact trend line here because there's this part that we don't necessarily control.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when I think about the margins I think Jeff you mentioned that non-bulk was up 11% basis points in the quarter in a quarter that I don't think you had much new generic products that you would consider as kind of the highest-margin product.
So what should -- how much should bulk margins be up kind of like in a quarter where you have more new generics and more generics that have more 180-type of profile? Yes first of all the improvements that we saw in our non-bulk margin it was a combination of all of our various margin initiatives that we have underway to continue to improve our margin.
Clearly the Kinray acquisition had a positive impact on margins the growth of China has an impact on margin the general strength of our generics programs has a positive impact on margins.
So I mean those are all benefiting our margin as planned.
So I agree that there weren't a large number of new generic launches during the quarter so the fact that we were able to increase non-bulk margins in spite of that I view as a very positive sign.
Ricky I'm not sure I fully understood the second part of your question.
Research Division</strong> I guess the question is when you think -- when you look ahead to the second half of your fiscal year '12 where you will see a number of quite significant new generic product introductions could you quantify for us what would be the impact on the non-bulk margin as a result of that kind of like mix shift? Yes I mean that's a very difficult thing to quantify at this point.
So I probably won't be able to Ricky.
But I guess as a generalization I'd say all of it equal that should be good for our non-bulk margins but lots of other moving parts in there and it's still early so it's difficult for me to quantify that exactly.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So on the -- just on generic drugs it did seem that fiscal 1Q is maybe a difficult comp quarter for you guys just given how strong the September 2010 quarter was for Cardinal in particular.
So I'm just curious we all know that your fiscal back-half year is going to be strong but just curious for the December quarter would you anticipate the year-over-year growth in generics to be maybe a little better than what it was in the just-reported fiscal 1Q or would it be about the same or maybe a bit tougher? Just trying to get a sense for the sequential trend there for -- just for you guys in particular.
Yes Steve thanks for the question.
Again it's -- I'm not going to get too specific here.
Some is going to depend on how the generic launches that are transpiring play out.
The ZYPREXA launch happened a few days ago.
We've got the LIPITOR launch coming up later this month.
So exactly how those both play out for the quarter is still a bit of unknown at this point.
And so it's probably a little bit premature to guess too specifically but yes I think we're starting to see another generic wave across the transom and it remains to be seen how it will play out.
Yes let me just add we're always going to be -- we don't really guide by quarter the generic impact.
I think it's -- I think as you all well know there are some key products that are -- that we expect to launch and one that just did and so our hope and as you probably know what we're modeling as most folks are a launch of a generic LIPITOR in November.
So I think a lot of this will be influenced by the nature of the launches the timing the number of competitors but we see good things ahead for generics.
Your next question comes from the line of George Hill with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> George maybe as we look a little further out 2 questions on generics.
Number one can you talk about how conversations are evolving with customers that might normally buy generics around Cardinal with respect to your ability to hold on to some of that volume share? And then following onto that with LIPITOR you'll have some of the 180-day exclusivity period and then some of the multi-source period during the upcoming fiscal year.
I guess can you put some color around the conversations you're having with some of your preferred manufacturers around what lies after the 180 day exclusivity period looks like? Thanks George.
It's a very fair question a lot of which I can't comment on because these are really conversations between us and our business partners.
Let me take the first one which is a little easier.
Yes we feel good about the value of our generic proposition to our customers.
So our ability to hold -- following [ph] with our key customers feels pretty good.
Obviously there are -- there can be unique things happening with major launches like some that we're seeing in front of us and so those always require some creativity around the system and we're talking of course with our suppliers on how those are going to unfold.
But I think right now we feel that we're getting and have been getting better sort of every year at managing our generic portfolio working closely with our suppliers and creating a very flexible value-creating tool for our customers so I feel good about that.
As it relates to the strategies of how a product plays out during its exclusive period and the subsequent period that is really -- varies a lot by company by product by what the anticipated competitive level looks like post-exclusivity and so we I think I've said this to you before it's almost like each is a strategy of one.
It's very very difficult to characterize a general direction rather than -- I think it's more appropriate to say each of these has its own unique characteristics.
And we try to work closely with the suppliers to make sure that we're a valuable partner for them.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Halper with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> With respect to the China initiative how do you think about capital deployment there? You built another distribution facility you did a tuck-in acquisition what are the objectives there in terms of capital deployment and returns? Hi Steve the question -- as we said previously for at least a 3-year period we expect China to be a net use of capital as we continue to build up the platform aggressively as we make some small tuck-in acquisitions as we put up additional DCs and as we grow the business and have the working capital needs to support that.
In the past I quantified that at somewhere between $100 million to $150 million per year for a 3-year period.
And I think that's still a pretty accurate projection.
Clearly we expect to get a return on that investment a good return on that investment but we're in growth mode right now.
And as a result we'll be injecting capital prudently but with the desire to establish a major presence in China and to consolidate and to build up some of these business lines that George and I referenced earlier.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The $100 million to $150 million per year does that include the tuck-in acquisitions? Yes it does.
Now some years may be slightly higher depending on exactly what transpires but yes I would imagine that would include most of the acquisitions we've been looking at because quite frankly most acquisitions we're looking at are relatively small.
We have the major platform that we need.
The goal now is really to build out additional geographic presence in a number of the cities that we don't currently have a presence.
And in most cases that involves picking up smaller regional players that have a presence in that particular city.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Last question have those valuation expectations declined since you went in initially? Yes.
I'd say perhaps marginally.
I think in line with general economic conditions in China and the availability of funding et cetera but I would not say dramatically so.
But we feel the acquisitions that we've been looking at and we've been very selective about going after the ones that best fit our profile I'd say they're available at reasonable multiples perhaps higher multiples than what we see in the U.S.
as you would expect just given the growth in that market.
But again the ones that we've been looking at and closing on or expect to close on I would describe as high but reasonable.
Your next question comes from the line of John Ransom with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> George I wonder if you could just expand on your comments with the generic market inflation versus deflation.
And what are your latest thoughts on the effect on Cardinal if LIPITOR is a single source versus a dual source generic for a while? Well this is -- yes I don't want to be too specific John on any particular product.
Again what we were assuming -- I think we've shared this but I'll share it again.
We're assuming a November launch we're assuming that would be product that has statutory exclusivity and that there will be another launch associated with legal -- a legal agreement which allows for an authorized generic.
So essentially 2 players in the market.
That's what we're modeling that's what we've been modeling all along and it's still our expectation.
Those are conditions that can be very good for us but again each product has its own characteristics.
There is a general pattern but we do find that occasionally a company will price in a certain way that the market will price in a certain way.
And so these are generally conditions that are pretty good for our business and good for our profitability and certainly for our customers a chance to grow their generic business as well.
The characteristics that I described earlier in terms of our overall pattern it's not bad for us to see stabilizing prices in generics on some of these older products but again even that varies a little bit.
But generally speaking I would say that can be a good thing for us.
I described the characteristics of some of the -- a more recent product experiencing the stage of evolution where they fear their first competition.
But that's what we -- we see that fairly typically and model it usually pretty accurately.
So the conditions that we're seeing right now are good and our hope is that stabilizing prices is not a bad thing.
Our hope is that that will continue but again it's pretty hard to model.
The competitive dynamics tend to wax and wane a bit.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Coldwell with Baird.
Research Division</strong> I know you've quantified the Presource custom kitting EBIT impact but did you give the revenue impact from the hold? No we didn't Eric but actually in the scheme of things the revenue impact was relatively light.
Most of the impact is related to reserves we took on inventory that was held up at the border or additional operating costs that we incurred as our team worked to make sure that our customers had as much supply as we could humanly provide them.
There were a few blips over the course of the quarter in terms of sales week to week due to spot outages of inventory et cetera.
But I would say overall over the course of the quarter it kind of evened out and we were probably down very slightly but it wasn't a significant sales impact.
Research Division</strong> Good.
On Puerto Rico and China in the reclass of performance into the segment did I understand correctly that you're going to split those 2 geographies by Pharma and Med/Surg or is it all moving into Med/Surg? And then secondarily do you plan to provide restated numbers for prior periods with future quarters or in a subsequent filings? No.
Great question.
I'm glad you asked it.
No.
All 3 businesses that we consider international Canada China and Puerto Rico I recognize it's not international but for our purposes we treat it as a nondomestic business.
Yes all 3 of those we're going to split between the 2 segments based on the underlying business.
So no we're not switching it totally to medical.
We're just switching to medical the relevant portion of those 3 respective geographies.
We're not going to restate prior years in part because the bottom line financial impact is very small.
I'll call out the revenue impact each quarter for the rest of this year.
In Q1 as I said it added about 1.7 percentage points to the medical revenue growth rate.
That was about USD $38 million it added but the profit impact if you apply it to the average medical operating margin rate to that you can figure out the bottom line impact is relatively small.
So we decided it really wasn't worth restating prior years for that small change.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> George or Jeff is there any material cost or capital savings folding that Futuremed asset into the acute care footprint in Canada? And then maybe can you speak more broadly to the market there? It's not exactly been a barnburner here in the U.S.
You take the first part I'll take the second.
Thanks Bob it's Jeff.
I always have to make a comment I can't let -- but yes it's a little bit premature because we're still prior to the close period there and going through the regulatory process et cetera so I need to be a little bit careful of what I comment but I will say that the synergies of this deal are expected to be substantial and that's both in the areas of capital and expense.
There's a fair amount of geographic overlap in the country with our DCs and the headquarters I believe running miles apart.
So a significant part of the economics of the deal are the ability to fold Futuremed into the robust Cardinal Canada platform.
So I would expect it'd be significant.
That all said we will be retaining some key management from the Futuremed company including the existing CEO and President Ray Stone who will be joining the Cardinal health team and will be a very important part of our business going forward.
Again assuming this transaction closes.
Generally speaking Bob as I understand your comment on long-term care it has had its complications here in the U.S.
It's actually been a very solid growing market in Canada.
They experienced the same demographic challenge we experienced but their system and the financing system has been more stable in fact there's been a push towards taking care of folks in long-term care.
So we actually like the characteristics of the market it seems quite stable growing and demographics are certainly moving in our favor there.
The last question comes from the line of David Larsen with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> I'll be quick here.
What were the offsets to that $17 million benefit you received from that dispute with the manufacturers? There were a couple that you mentioned can you just remind me please? Sure.
Thanks Dave for the question.
One was the Presource issue which as I said was worth about $11 million in the quarter or roughly $0.02.
And then the discrete tax items which net were negative of about $4 million again equal to about $0.01 worth on the EPS line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And those were all included in your adjusted EPS correct? Correct.
They were all in our non-GAAP EPS but I just wanted to call them out because they were somewhat unique for the quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
George Barrett Chairman and CEO for any final remarks.
Please proceed.
Thank you Stephanie.
We're off to a good start to our fiscal '12.
So we look forward to the year in front of us.
We thank all of you for joining us on today's call and have a good day.
Thank you.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 Cardinal Health Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Chris and I will be your conference moderator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
At this time I would now like to turn the conference over to your presenter for today Ms.
Sally Curley Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may proceed.
Thank you and welcome to Cardinal Health's Second Quarter Fiscal 2012 Conference Call today.
We will be making forward-looking statements.
The matters addressed in the statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to the SEC filings and the forward-looking statements slide at the beginning of the presentation found on the Investor page of our website for a description of risks and uncertainties.
In addition we will reference non-GAAP financial measures.
Information about these measures is included at the end of the slides.
I'd also like to remind you of a few upcoming investment conferences and events in which we will be webcasting notably: the UBS Global Healthcare Services Conference on February 8; the Leerink Swann 2012 Global Healthcare Conference on February 16; the Citigroup 2012 Global Healthcare Conference on February 27; the Cowen &amp; Co.
32nd Annual Healthcare Conference on March 5; the Raymond James 33rd Institutional Investors Conference on March 6; and the Barclays Capital Global Healthcare Conference on March 14.
The details of these events will be posted on our IR section of our website at cardinalhealth.com so please make sure to visit the site often for updated information.
We look forward to seeing you at one of these upcoming events.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to George Barrett.
Thanks Sally.
Good morning everyone and thanks to all of you for joining us on our second quarter call.
We are now halfway through our 2012 fiscal year and I'm pleased to report a solid second quarter performance.
We continue to make excellent progress on activities that will benefit the near mid and long term.
Revenue for the second quarter was $27.1 billion up 7% from the prior year.
Non-GAAP operating earnings increased by 21% to $475 million.
Our non-GAAP EPS grew 11% to $0.81 from last year's $0.73 which benefited from a lower than usual tax rate.
The earnings improvement reflects continued margin expansion across our business.
This continues to be a priority of ours and our margin improvement is a result of disciplined approach to product and customer mix as well as overall efficiency improvements.
Our Pharmaceutical segment continued its momentum and delivered a terrific performance 30% profit growth on a revenue gain of 6%.
The Medical segment achieved top line growth of 9% demonstrating good progress but as expected recorded a year-over-year profit decline of 18% primarily due to residual commodity cost pressures.
Overall our growth initiatives continue to gain momentum and our recent acquisitions are yielding results at or above target.
Now let me provide some color on each segment performance in the quarter.
The 30% Pharmaceutical segment profit growth was driven primarily by our pharmaceutical distribution business.
Strong generic performance solid execution under our manufacture agreements and contributions from the Kinray and Cardinal Health China acquisitions resulted in a 29-basis-point margin expansion.
To provide a bit more detail our generic revenues grew by 17% versus the prior year.
As you know this quarter saw the generic launches of a number of major branded pharmaceuticals.
In particular the launches of the generic equivalents to LIPITOR and Zyprexa occurred in the period with financial contributions largely as planned.
Our generics team did an excellent job in preparing for what turned out to be a very complicated launch scenario and executed well for our customers.
We've now lapped the year mark for Kinray last year's acquisition in the retail independent pharmacy space and our integration is complete.
We were very pleased with the performance this quarter and we continue to see the positive impact of Kinray on both our customer and product mix.
Innovation continues to be a high priority for our organization.
BarCode360 launch during this quarter is a great example.
This barcode administration solution supports hospitals' medication safety initiatives by making it easier timelier and more cost effective to order medications.
It also ensures that more unit dose medications can be scanned at the patient bedside.
Moving to nuclear.
Our team continues to do a terrific job serving our customers in this high-touch business.
That said sluggish utilization in low-energy cardiac imaging have negatively affected our top and bottom line in the space.
However we continue to see solid progress in positron emission tomography or PET sales.
As I noted last quarter we're moving into more key U.S.
markets with 3 new PET manufacturing facilities targeted to open this fiscal year.
And we look forward with promise to the potential for several launches of new biomarkers for cancer and Alzheimer's from our biopharmaceutical partners.
The Specialty Solutions group delivered a revenue increase of 37% for the quarter driven by our provider distribution services.
Over $100 million in revenue growth was generated from new and existing distribution customers.
We also signed another $100 million in annualized distribution revenues including a new oncology customer cCARE the California Cancer Associates for Research and Excellence a rapidly expanding group in this space.
On the payer side we remain very encouraged by key customer wins that will impact future growth including a partnership with CareFirst BlueCross BlueShield to add rheumatoid arthritis to its P4 clinical pathways program.
We are excited about our specialty model which works at the intersection of the biopharmaceutical companies the payers and most important the providers.
Turning to our Medical segment.
Solid revenue growth of 9% for the Medical segment was achieved primarily through increased sales to both new and existing customers.
We believe this is a strong validation of our value proposition.
Customers are seeking new ways to compete in a shifting healthcare landscape and we continue to create unique solutions to support them.
As noted earlier the Medical segment operating profit declined as expected negatively affected by the challenges of the anticipated higher year-over-year commodity costs and the investments in information systems associated with our medical business transformation or MBT initiative.
Our investment in MBT has moved to an important stage.
The second quarter pilot went very well and we are ready for a national rollout in this current quarter.
We feel very confident that this effort will allow us to reduce complexity for our customers while enabling us to take cost and working capital out of the system.
The business fundamentals of the Medical segment remain solid and we were pleased with the strong contributions in the second quarter from our strategic focus areas.
The growth of our preferred products which includes both Cardinal Health-branded and select national brands continues to outpace the rest of our product portfolio and make a positive impact on segment margin rates.
Cardinal Health-branded product revenues grew at a double-digit rate during the quarter driven by the strength of patient care surgical and kitting products and above plan new product launches.
Our national brand portfolio also recorded good results.
From a channel perspective ambulatory care growth was again in double digits outpacing the market.
We saw particularly strong results from our surgery center team.
And our Canadian medical/surgical business had another strong quarter with revenues increasing by close to 8%.
Jeff will provide some additional color on Cardinal Health China but let me just make a few comments here.
The integration has gone extremely well.
We have opened 2 new state-of-the-art distribution centers in Shanghai and Beijing.
We expect to complete about $90 million in acquisitions in China this fiscal year to enhance our geographic coverage and local direct distribution business.
We are developing a platform in China not only for pharmaceutical partners but also for other global companies who seek to build a business in China for their medical products lab equipment and other supplies.
So the outlook is very encouraging.
Finally it's always great to see -- receive positive customer recognition for the work we do to serve them.
In November Gartner released their 2011 Healthcare Supply Chain Top 25 which uses a survey process to identify organizations that enable high-quality patient care at optimal economic cost.
I'm pleased to report that Cardinal Health was rated #1 in this survey.
We were recognized as a company that is working collaboratively toward common goals in care and cost improvement.
As we look to the back half of the year we continue to watch several market and macroeconomic trends which influence our second half performance and our perspective on the full year.
Jeff will elaborate on these factors during his remarks which include the continued relatively soft healthcare utilization rates and continued residual commodity cost pressures.
Based on what we see today and our first half performance we are tightening and slightly raising our non-GAAP EPS guidance range from $3.04 to $3.19 to a new range of $3.10 to $3.20.
In summary I'm encouraged with the performance of our business these past 6 months and with the progress we've made on our strategic initiatives.
Healthcare is an exciting place to be and one experiencing powerful forces.
We are positioned well in this environment and we'll continue to innovate and adapt as these forces play out.
And now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks George and hello everyone.
I'm happy to be discussing another quarter of strong results.
I'll begin my remarks today by expanding on some financial trends and drivers in the second quarter.
And then I'll touch briefly on our updated fiscal 2012 guidance.
Let's start with Slide 4.
During the quarter we grew our non-GAAP EPS by 11% to $0.81 per share driven by 7% revenue and 21% non-GAAP operating earnings growth.
Looking specifically at revenue.
Even if you exclude the year-on-year impact of the mid-year fiscal 2011 acquisitions which contributed about 4.1 percentage points underlying sales are growing well driven by increased volume from existing and net new customers for both segments.
Although non-GAAP operating expenses were up 6% more than half of this growth represents expenses added through the aforementioned acquisitions with a sizable portion of the remainder related to planned business system investments.
Consolidated gross margin and non-GAAP operating margin rates continue to increase year-on-year up 19 and 21 basis points respectively.
Interest and other expense came in $8 million higher than last year driven by changes in the value of our deferred compensation plan.
Our non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 37.8% versus an abnormally low 32% last year.
Tax rate this quarter included unfavorable net discrete items of $5 million driven by state tax items versus a net favorable $17 million in the prior year.
Finally favorability in our share count versus last year was driven by the $300 million of share buybacks we completed in Q1.
Our share count in Q2 was about 349 million diluted average shares outstanding versus 351 million in the prior year's quarter.
I would like to point out that our FY '12 share count guidance remains at approximately 352 million shares.
As a reminder this higher share count forecast is driven by certain assumptions such as the impact of share price on the dilution calculation and exercising of options.
Now let me comment on consolidated cash flow and the balance sheet.
Operating cash flow for the quarter was a use of $114 million driven by normal and anticipated year end working capital demands and the impact of large customer ordering patterns.
Year-to-date operating cash flow of approximately $400 million is still slightly ahead of where we were at this point last year.
Overall our net working capital days ended the quarter at 8.8 days versus 8.4 in the prior year driven by a slight variance in days payable.
We ended Q2 with approximately $1.8 billion in cash of which approximately $300 million is held overseas.
This cash balance does not include our investments in held-to-maturity fixed income securities which are classified as other assets in the balance sheet and totaled approximately $100 million at quarter end.
Now let's move to Q2 segment performance referring primarily to Slide 5 and 6 and starting with the Pharma segment.
Revenue in the segment increased 6.5% with the China and Kinray acquisitions we completed in the prior year's quarter contributing 4.4 percentage points to this growth rate.
Let me walk through a few of the other drivers.
In the pharmaceutical distribution business growth in existing and new customers was a strong driver.
Non-bulk sales specifically were up 14.8% for the quarter.
As George mentioned our Specialty Solutions business continues to progress growing revenue this quarter at 37%.
Our nuclear business continues to be challenged by the low-energy market volume softness that we described last quarter.
As you would expect we are taking actions within this business in the areas of contracting strategies network and sourcing efficiency and expense management to mitigate the impact of this demand softness.
It is possible that one of these initiatives may result in an inventory write-off or other impacts later this year the majority of which would likely be in the third quarter.
Any likely range for that expense is reflected in our guidance.
As George mentioned we remain excited about growth opportunities on the positron emission tomography side of the business where we grew our doses per day one of the key performance indicators we track internally by more than 8% compared to the prior year.
Pharma segment profit margin rate increased by a noteworthy 29 basis points compared to prior year's Q2 in part reflecting a continued mixed shift towards non-bulk.
Further we saw margin expansion in each of the classes of trade that we track within the Pharma distribution business.
We continue to see significant contribution from the ongoing success of our generics programs including the favorable impact of generic new item launches with both Zyprexa and LIPITOR contributing strongly.
As an aside related to generic deflation we did benefit from inflation on a few specific generic products in Q2 which helped to moderate the overall deflation rate to a level that was better than our expectations for the quarter.
Performance in our manufacture agreements both branded and generic was a positive driver in the quarter.
Some of this variance was driven by timing of price increases including one that we view as the pull ahead from Q3 as well as sizable increases for a few specific products that we view as somewhat atypical.
We also continue to see strong contribution from the Kinray and China acquisitions.
As we have now lapped both of these deals this is the last time we plan to provide a breakout of the combined impact.
But the benefit to segment profit in Q2 is estimated at a little less than 13 percentage points in total from both acquisitions.
In summary the Pharma segment had another excellent quarter resulting in a 30% increase in segment profit to $394 million.
Now turning to our Medical segment.
For the quarter revenue increased by 9.4% to $2.4 billion driven by increased sales to customers across all channels.
Let me highlight a few items driving this result.
Volume from net customer wins was again positive this quarter.
We saw another good increase in revenue from our preferred products.
As we've highlighted in the past this is a key growth and margin expansion opportunity for us.
Our ambulatory business another important focus area for us also had another strong quarter with 11% revenue growth.
Consistent with the last quarter we also had a couple of unique items which contributed to our reported revenue growth that I want to quantify once again.
First is the ongoing effect of having transitioned our business with CareFusion to a traditional branded distribution model a move that we highlighted in our Q3 earnings call last year.
This change added 2 percentage points or $44 million to revenue.
The second item is the impact of the refinement we made in the way we report results for our international commercial operations which I discussed in detail on last quarter's call.
This change also contributed 2 percentage points to the Medical segment revenue growth rate in the quarter while having a relatively insignificant impact on segment profit growth.
Now turning to Medical segment profit which as we expected heading into the quarter declined 18% to $85 million driven by the negative impact of commodity prices.
Specifically commodity prices impacted our current period cost of products sold by $23 million versus last year.
For the full year we are still expecting a headwind of approximately $70 million as favorable price movements in cotton and latex since the last call have largely been offset by unfavorable oil and oil derivative trends.
Of the remaining negative impact in the second half we estimate approximately $20 million will be felt in Q3.
As a reminder due to the lagging effect between price movements and the corresponding impact on our cost of products sold further changes in commodity price levels during this fiscal year will have more of an FY '13 than FY '12 impact.
We saw approximately $5 million of negative impact from foreign currency movements this quarter roughly the same what we saw in Q1 and in line with our expectations.
Additionally we increased our investments in information systems which affected the year-over-year expense comparison in the quarter.
In this regard I'm pleased to report that we are nearing the national implementation of our medical business transformation during Q3.
As we've said in the past we expect meaningful margin accretion from this project beginning in fiscal 2013.
But I'd like to remind you that since most of our attention in the coming months will be on ensuring a successful launch we are not assuming much benefit in fiscal '12.
And segment results will be dampened in the back half of the year as we begin to depreciate these assets and incur incremental project spend associated with the national implementation.
Specifically we expect over $50 million of negative expense impact versus prior year in the second half with the majority of this in Q3 as we implement and ensure a smooth rollout post-launch.
But again we expect the benefits of this project to more than outweigh the depreciation expense next year.
Partially offsetting the effect of these negative items was the positive margin benefit from increasing our sales of preferred products as well as the impact of increased volume to existing and net new customers.
Given the masking impact of commodity costs this year we thought it'd be helpful to share some of the key metrics we track internally to measure our progress in the Medical segment.
Let's start with revenue growth and net customer wins.
Even adjusting for unique items like the CareFusion switch and the international reporting change core sales growth was in the mid-single digits in both the first and second quarter and is expected to be at that rate for the full year.
Net customer wins have been positive each quarter so far this year and again are expected to be so for the full fiscal '12.
One related point in this regard is we have been informed that the transition to the expanded Department of Defense med/surg contract that was awarded to us last year has been delayed by the Department of Defense until May due to their systems change pushing out any impact out of Q3.
Moving on to the growth of preferred products.
Sales of Cardinal Health-branded products specifically grew 12% in Q2 and are expected to grow at least high-single digits for the year.
And finally ambulatory growth.
Despite reports of sluggish and choppy trends of physician office visits our ambulatory business grew 11% in Q2 and has been outgrowing the market for at least 10 quarters now.
So in summary we are closely tracking the progress of our medical strategy and remain excited about where the future is heading.
Now Id like to spend a few minutes discussing Cardinal Health China.
Our revenue in China was again very strong.
And in particular we continue to see exceptional growth from our local direct distribution business which grew its revenue by 37% during the quarter.
By the end of Q3 we will have expanded to 10 distribution center sites in China and our service area will cover more than 250 million people.
We also continue to move forward in our evaluation and piloting of opportunities in other areas such as consumer healthcare products for retail pharmacies direct-to-patient specialty distribution diagnostics and live supplies and medical device distribution.
In summary Cardinal Health China continues to perform well and we are very optimistic about its future.
Let's turn to Slide 7 which I'll just summarize.
In total GAAP results in the quarter include items that had a negative $0.05 per share net after-tax impact primarily from the exclusion of $0.03 of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets from our non-GAAP results.
This compares to a negative $0.12 net impact in our GAAP results last year mostly driven by $0.08 in acquisition-related costs.
Now let me briefly comment on our fiscal 2012 full-year outlook.
Following our strong first half results we are both tightening and raising our non-GAAP EPS guidance to a range of $3.10 to $3.20.
All our assumptions on Slide 9 and 10 remain largely consistent with our prior guidance.
This new range also encompasses our forecast for some key factors including generic launch timing and value generic deflation branded price increases a LIFO charge which could be up to $25 million and any anticipated impact on our results from the Express Scripts and Walgreens situation.
While we generally don't provide quarterly guidance I did want to make some directional comments about the shape of the second half of this fiscal year.
Based on our $3.10 to $3.20 guidance range and our best estimate of timing of events we anticipate the Q3 EPS growth rate versus last year to be in the mid- to high-single digits.
Keep in mind that many of the drivers that result in this growth pattern were referenced by me earlier in my discussion.
But I'd be happy to answer any further questions on it during our Q&amp;A.
To close let me reiterate: this was a very solid quarter and I'm very pleased with our first half results.
We have continued to execute well across both our base business and on key strategic growth drivers.
And we remain well positioned to deliver value to our shareholders.
Now let me turn it over to our operator to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Glen Santangelo of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple quick questions about the MBT the business transformation.
And Jeff if I heard you correctly you said that you expect to spend about $50 million in the back half of the year with the bulk of that kind of slated towards the third quarter.
I guess my question is how has that number been trending over the past several quarters? Are you increasing the spending rate? Or is that kind of about level with where it is? And then should we assume that at the end of fiscal '12 that basically run rate of spending stops and we start to see the margin lift right in fiscal '13? Yes Jeff why don't you take that? Yes.
Thanks Glen good question.
So just to be clear it was $15 million 1-5.
Research Division</strong> Oh $15 million? Okay.
Yes yes.
But yes that is a higher run rate than what we saw in Q1 and Q2 of this year and that's for 2 reasons.
Number one since we're going live with the national implementation this quarter we begin depreciating the assets.
So that begins flowing through our income statement.
But on top of that as you get towards the end of any project like this you actually do incur a fair amount of expense as you finalize the training and develop contingency plans for the go-live and ensure stabilization once you've rolled out the implementation.
So the run rate that we'll see in Q3 and Q4 will probably be the highest expense run rate that we've seen for the project and higher than Q1 and Q2.
Now once we get through the end of this year all the project implementation spend largely goes away.
Clearly we still have the ongoing depreciation but the benefits that we expect to realize in the project really kick in beginning in Q1 and then ramp up.
And as I said during my prepared remarks they well more than offset any ongoing depreciation that we have from the implementation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could just ask George one follow-up.
With respect to generic pricing you seem to suggest that there were a few generics where you actually saw price increases which moderated the overall rate of deflation.
Could you just kind of maybe give us any type of quantification for that and if you think the current -- what's driving the current trend and the sustainability of the current trend? I won't be able to quantify this for you but I can sort of just give you a little bit of color on it.
Yes I think the way you characterize it is right.
We would say that generic deflation has been somewhat favorable.
And this is really driven largely by a subset of what is this enormous multi-thousand product portfolio of generic drugs.
So what we saw is in this subset in some products we saw lower deflation; in some products we actually saw price increases.
And that's really driving the shift.
So as to what causes it it's sort of a good question and a hard one to answer.
Some of this is probably a little bit event driven in that the disruption of supply through parts of the system have had some impact on pricing.
I think there's probably little doubt about that.
The question is if it's sustainable it's a hard one to know because it's hard to know exactly what behavior would be.
What I would say is this that the characteristics that are driving some of the supply disruption some of the shortages those continue to persist for the moment.
So that I would say whether I would go and predict market behavior at this point I'm not that comfortable doing that.
But I would say that to the extent that some of this is driven a little bit by the supply disruptions and some of the shortages that may persist.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Muken of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Gentlemen so obviously we've got a lot of moving parts in the Medical business at the moment and Glen touched on some of the investment.
I mean George relative to kind of the plan you laid out 18 24 months ago for sort of the reinvigoration in this business where do you feel like you've sort of hit plan? Where do you feel like you've overachieved? Where do you feel like there's still quite a bit of room to go? So here's what I'd say.
If we go back 2 years ago and we look at the various components driving our business the reorganization around category management the focus on preferred product the general efficiencies that we were going be looking at as we reorganized our focus on growing our ambulatory setting I would say those are all encouraging signs.
The part that we probably didn't model well was what happened with oil prices and floods in Thailand that would affect our cotton prices this past year.
So again not in any way to make excuses but those are the unplanned ones for us.
But I would say in terms of the things that we control I feel pretty good that the progress that we're making is solid.
We measure them.
We've got I think good lead indicators.
Our market progress in terms of overall share and retention and wins feels good.
So I think I'm encouraged that we're on the right path.
I would be very happy to see the commodity situation stabilize.
Research Division</strong> And maybe Jeff was there anything in the guidance relative to sort of Futuremed? I know you haven't closed it yet and I know it's relatively small.
But I was just curious if there was any assumption on medical from contribution there? No good question Ross and there isn't.
We don't reflect in our guidance any deals that haven't closed.
So there's nothing reflected for Futuremed.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from line of A.J.
Rice of Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just on obviously you had some nice new customer wins in both segments as you've been commenting on for several quarters now.
Can you just maybe step back and comment on the competitive landscape and where you're picking up those customer wins potentially? A.J.
this is always a hard one to answer because we've got so many activities and businesses and markets.
This is -- business-by-business it varies.
I think our largest business in pharmaceutical distribution is as always a competitive market.
But I think we're competing effectively.
We've been able to I think bolster our share in the community pharmacy and the independent pharmacy space.
We've had some encouraging signs in the chain world in the retail chain world.
And I think we've done well in the institutional areas in hospitals and in ambulatory settings.
So I think in general we feel a pretty encouraging sign across the board.
Medical business is -- again these are all competitive businesses.
But I think as you saw from our revenue numbers the growth of 9% our Medical that we're making some good progress there.
So I would say generally speaking rather than be specific about individual count I feel like we've got some sense of momentum and a pretty effective value proposition and a good market position throughout most of our businesses.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe another follow-up question.
You guys did raise the point about trying to bake in some expectations around the Walgreens-Express dispute.
Is there anything more? I know it's a sensitive topic but is there anything more that you can say about how it's impacting your performance and how you think it might in the second half? Yes.
Other than to say that our guidance sort of encapsulates all of our thinking as you can imagine it's probably best for the parties to speak directly about how this issue may or may not have affected them.
So I think it's better for us to just leave that alone for the moment.
And our next question comes from line of Tom Gallucci of Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just first one was a clarification Jeff.
[Audio Gap] there a nuclear and that's sort of in the guidance? And I assume that's part of a little lower growth in the third quarter versus let's say the fourth quarter that you talked about? Hey Tom we lost you for a few seconds there during your question.
Would you mind repeating it please? Research Division</strong> Sure sorry about that.
Okay.
Just first with a clarification on the nuclear.
You said Jeff that there may be a write-off in the quarter on inventory and that's in the guidance and that's sort of also part of your commentary on the more moderate EPS growth that you expect in the period? Yes.
It's a possibility that there could be a write-off as a result of some of the actions that we're taking Tom.
Yes that's reflected.
Any likely range for that is reflected in our guidance.
And yes that's part of the Q3 specifics that I provided.
Research Division</strong> Care to roughly size it if it were to happen? Or not at this point? We're still working through it.
And as I said it's still a possibility.
So it's not certain.
But could it be $0.02 to $0.03? Yes.
But we're still working through exactly what it would look like if in fact it will occur.
But if it does it could be up to that sort of range.
And our next question comes from line of Robert Jones of Goldman Sachs.
.
Research Division</strong> On the Medical side I was wondering if you guys could comment a little bit with respect to the trend of IDNs growing through acquisition of physician practices.
You obviously have a unique vantage point distributing both on the acute and the ambulatory side.
Are you getting more requests from these IDNs to help distribute across these wider networks as they grow? Yes.
I would say this we have certainly seen a general trend toward IDNs looking to acquire or affiliate in some ways with physician's practices.
Although as you probably know this varies a little bit by specialty area.
So yes I think in general this plays to our historical strength in the IDN and this is probably helpful to us in many ways.
Having said that I would acknowledge that we still do hear from some physicians that they like to practice in the community setting and they believe that this is an excellent way to deliver care.
So we still see a sort of robust community setting.
But I think the general trend that you're describing is probably one that we would echo.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a follow-up on a different topic.
I saw this morning Walgreens announced that they would try to be acquiring some of the specialty pharmacy and mail service assets from BioScrips.
Can you just remind us of your relationship with Walgreens on the mail and specialty side? Yes.
So I think what I can say is we are a supplier.
All we've ever publicly disclosed is that we are a significant supplier to Walgreens and I think that's probably covered in our public documents.
And probably that's what we can say at this point.
And our next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I think that Jeff you made a comment that direct store sales were -- grew 14.8% in the quarter.
Did I get that number correct number one? And then number two can you just help me understand what it looks like on a same-store sales basis? If we look over especially this quarter I think across the distribution channel all 3 drug distributors have grown faster than expected.
So can you maybe help us understand where that growth is coming if it's not coming from competitors? Sure Lisa.
This is Jeff.
Yes we said that non-bulk sales in the Pharma segment grew 14.8% in the quarter.
I would say probably same-store sales is lower single digits.
But on top of that we have 2 significant wins that we have publicly announced previously and that was picking up both Duane Reade and the Longs business.
So clearly that helped the growth rate as well.
And then the Kinray acquisition and the China acquisitions also contributed to that.
Without Kinray just to provide you some data the non-bulk growth rate is about 8.3%.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then as a follow-up maybe George can you talk to us about capital deployment? I think you mentioned today you have $300 million outside of the U.S.
talking about $90 million additional acquisitions in China.
But how should we think about capital deployment over the next 12 months? Lisa I'm not sure that we would probably alter our perspective on that versus what we've said fairly recently.
We really are looking at this in a balanced way.
You know that we continue to believe that the dividend is an important part of our story to our shareholders and our value creation.
We are always looking for the opportunity to strengthen our strategic positioning as a business and enhance the growth rates of our business.
And to the extent that we find those opportunities we are always ready to deploy capital in that area.
Having said that other than those things that we've announced and our observations about China that we just made it would be hard to give you any particular indication that there's anything particular to discuss.
We've always said that we regard share buybacks as a part of the equation when we accumulate cash and that's the most effective way to deploy capital in our shareholders' interest.
And of course we have the investments and our own capital infrastructure of IT systems everything else that we do to drive this core business.
So there's not much to share other than we probably take -- I think we take a very balanced approach to looking at this and we believe very shareholder-friendly.
Lisa the only thing I'd add is that dividends have been and continue to be an important part of our capital deployment story going forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> My first question is around generics.
Obviously generics grew a very impressive 17% this quarter.
I think some of your competitors noted low single-digit growth.
Do you have a sense of what market growth was? And also what percent of the generic growth is same-store? Ricky I don't have the market growth rate in front of me.
And maybe as we're talking someone will grab that for me.
We're actually fairly encouraged by what's happening with our generic business.
As you know for the last couple of years I think we're making good progress.
That's both in terms of I think same-store sales in effect or same -- from a company sales where we're doing better with each of our accounts.
I think we've been more and more effective with each launch.
I think that the distribution of our business and the mix of our business is actually favorable to the progress of our generic business.
And I think we're just doing a more effective job as a global sourcer of generic products.
So we've generally speaking been able to outgrow the market and feel pretty encouraged about that.
Ricky on the market growth our best estimates are that both script and probably dollars growth for generics were in the lower single digits.
Clearly we did much better than that which I think continues to reflect the performance that we've had in improving our generics sales over the past couple years.
And obviously it also reflects the Kinray acquisition in the second quarter as well.
And again keep in mind that Kinray came into our books very late in the second quarter of fiscal '11.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a clarification on the Q3 guidance.
It just seems based on the fact that you raised guidance for the year that this year you might have less of the seasonality between the March quarter and the June quarter.
I mean just doing back of the envelop I get to around as you said high single-digit growth for third quarter which would imply kind of like 20-plus range for the fourth quarter on a year-over-year basis.
So can you just clarify that? And is there anything that I'm missing here in kind of like the headwinds versus tailwinds in the last 2 quarters of the year? No.
As has been happening for the past couple years the seasonality in our business continues to decrease over time as more and more of our brand pharma contracts go to a DSA basis.
I also think it's true in the Medical segment.
Traditionally Q3 in the Medical segment has been one of our strongest ones.
And again I think some of the seasonality in that business segment has decreased over the years as well.
So I guess that's point number one.
Point number two I mentioned the potential write-off of inventory in nuclear the majority of which would happen in Q3.
So obviously that would depress Q3 somewhat as well.
We also as I referred to think there was a bit of a pull ahead of price increases from Q3 to Q2 this year.
So I mean those are some of the things that I would highlight.
Also keep in mind that the commodity impact in Q3 for Medical I referenced to be about $20 million in Q3.
But if you sort of force out the Q4 based on the $70 million for the full year that I gave you can see the Q4 number it will be in the -- is expected to be in the single-digit million dollar range for commodity impacts.
So I mean those are all the things that I think are affecting the distribution between Q3 and Q4.
And our next question comes from the line of Larry Marsh of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just one more quick question on Medical.
It seems like in my model the base for '12 is now slightly lower than I had estimated with some incremental costs that you've called out.
But I guess the direction for profit contribution for medical for fiscal '13 directionally seems like you're saying you're as confident as ever that that's going to be the case.
I know George you've talked about this being an extraordinary complex business proposition.
So is it a matter of where you are now with the rollout that the level of confidence even around timing is extremely high? And do we -- is there any sort of directional timing of ramp of margin for fiscal '13 in that business that we should think of? Let me let Jeff at least start this one and I'll jump in.
Because I think you're asking a little bit about margin directions.
Right.
So I want to be a little bit careful here because we haven't provided fiscal '13 guidance.
And in particular I'm not going to get into quarterly trends or anything.
That all said as I sort of referred to during my prepared remarks if you look at the underlying trends whether it be ambulatory or preferred products or the soon-to-be-launched implementation of MBT many of the key strategic initiatives that we've been investing in to drive margin expansion continue to progress very well.
And that's obviously very important.
And then on the top line again good top line growth net customer wins.
Again signs that bode very well for the future and really validating the value proposition that we're bringing to all of our customers acute care and ambulatory.
That all said it's a little bit early to be talking about fiscal '13 because some things still have to play out and we're still watching commodity prices closely.
But all I can real say is the underlying trends that we're executing on are performing well and we feel good about them as we continue through FY '12 and prepare for '13.
Yes Larry just a little to add to that other than to say this I think we have a game plan and are clear about those things that for us will drive value for our customers and drive margin expansion.
I think we can always do them better and we're going to keep driving to push those things hard.
And so hopefully we'll never be satisfied and we'll keep pushing at it.
Research Division</strong> Okay very good.
And as a quick follow-up George one of the things you have suggested to us is that you had anticipated the profit contributions from new generic launches this fiscal year to be less than that for last fiscal year given some of the great performance you showed last year.
Is that still your view? Or given the strong results has that been altered? Yes.
Let me ask Jeff to start and I'll jump in.
Yes what weve been saying is that it would be slightly lower in fiscal '12 than we saw in fiscal '11.
I think that's still the case although probably some of that gap has been closed a little bit as we've gone through the first 6 months of the year.
But I think slightly lower is probably still an accurate description.
And honesty there's still some big launches to come and we're only a month and a bit into LIPITOR.
So there's a lot to the year still to play out.
So I wouldn't want to start making a final prediction too early until some of these things work themselves through.
Yes.
Again these things as you know Larry they really move throughout the course of the year.
So right at this stage I'd say we're relatively encouraged by what we're seeing.
But we'll take measure as we go through the year.
Our next question comes from line of George Hill of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Jeff number one you talked about a price increase pull forward in the quarter.
Can you talk about whether or not that was material and what the contribution could've been to revenue earnings? Yes.
One specific one I was referring to was probably worth $0.01 to $0.02.
So not huge in the scheme of things but it was slightly different than our expectations.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And kind of another high-doubting question can you talk about what organic growth in China looks like? So ex the acquisitions I thought you said revenue growth in China was about 37%.
But how should we think about that on a same-store sales basis? I would say it's low 20s.
Well let me put it this way very little acquisitions are in that 37% that I referenced.
So I would say virtually all of that is either the market or our ability to take share.
So if that was your question what is it excluding acquisitions? I'd say it's very close to that 37% of LDD that I referred to.
By the way our overall growth rate in China was in the low 20s.
The 37% was the local direct distribution which has been a key focus area for us.
Our view of the market if that's your question is that it appears to be in the high teens right now in terms of the overall pharma market growth rate that we've seen in the last quarter or so.
Yes and I think just to add to George the pieces that we will look at are obviously the natural organic growth that we can drive through expansion of the market and market share whatever we might do through acquisitions but also building product lines.
So that for us is another potential source of growth.
Our next question comes from the line of John Kreger of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> George if we could just go back to your comment about specialty.
I believe you said that business grew something like 37% in the quarter.
Can you just talk a little bit more about what drove that? And if we thought about that business in terms of income contribution would it be around the same pace? So I guess I'm really asking how aggressive is pricing as you try to build that business? So the bulk of our revenue growth was really driven by our sort of emerging distribution business.
And that as you know has been the priority for us to get started as we built our relationships out with the community practices is to make sure that we can leverage that to build our distribution business.
So I would say that that business is actually going well.
As you know the distribution businesses has a lower margin than the pure services part of the business.
So in a way that compresses the margin rate but it's actually good news for us because essentially it's all growth business.
That's probably as much as I can share on that topic.
Jeff may have some color on that.
No the only thing I'd add is that we continue to invest very aggressively in that area as well.
So as we continue to show success and grow some of that increased profitability will be put back into the business because we want to continue to establish a platform in both oncology and other disease states that can be long-lasting.
And we'll continue to do that as we show progress in the year.
Research Division</strong> And a quick follow-up.
As you look across your businesses at healthcare utilization are you seeing anything that surprises you over the last 3 or 4 months in terms of the way things are trending? Yes.
I think the only thing I can say that's surprising is sort of the volatility of the externally reported data the choppiness of it.
If you trend it out it doesn't look all that particularly changed or dramatic.
But it is choppy particularly when we look at physician's office numbers.
If you looked at sort of the last quarter of the year it was very very choppy.
When you look at inpatient and outpatient surgery it's probably a little bit more stable.
I would say that generally speaking we're not seeing a material change if you sort of smooth out the lines.
And so it would be hard to characterize a particular trend and I wouldn't say anything particularly surprising other than the choppiness when we look at the reported physician's office data.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a question here on the branded drug inflation and on the balance sheet.
I mean I know you guys have mentioned that with fee for services now much less opportunity for forward buying profits.
But just curious about the $1.4 billion increase in inventories in particular in the quarter.
That's one of the biggest jumps ever for a December quarter ahead of January price increases.
So I guess any comments on your inventories and also just on the January brand inflation trends you're seeing year-over-year? Yes.
Well first of all if your comparison is versus last year keep in mind that we've had some pretty significant businesses that have continued to grow.
Specialty has grown at a very high rate over that period and obviously we're building up inventory to support that.
China has continued to grow the top line very aggressively so we're building up inventory for that.
Was there some inventory at the end of the year to take advantage of certain price increases? I would say that was a portion of it but definitely not the overwhelming portion.
And then we also had some -- as we always do we have unique ordering patterns at the end of -- particularly at the end of calendar years as people are looking to build inventory up for the holiday season et cetera.
So the end of Q2 is always a very difficult one to both predict and quite frankly depending on the day of the week it ends et cetera we can have a fluctuation of $200 million $300 million $500 million just based on unique ordering patterns.
So other than those things I don't think there's anything particularly unique to point out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But as far as just the brand inflation trend you were seeing in January any comments on that versus how that was stacking up versus last year? We said before that we expect our fiscal '12 to be very similar to what we saw in fiscal '11.
And I would say so far it's playing out almost exactly at that.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Rhyee of Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> First a quick clarification Jeff on the $15 million incremental spend.
You said part of that started to depreciate out.
Can you give us the [indiscernible] and kind of quantify the sort of run rate on the appreciation part of it? I'm not sure I want to get that specific for just one part of our business quite frankly Charles.
But it's a multi-$100 million project that gets depreciated over generally a 5-year to 8-year period.
So I think you can get an idea from that what the annual run rate would be.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then maybe a follow-up here on China.
Obviously the business itself is growing well.
It sounds like though some of the more interesting opportunities are layering on new product lines.
George and Jeff you both talked about it.
Maybe can you talk about where the progress we are in terms of some of these initiatives particularly on the medical device side and then maybe on the consumer healthcare side? Let me start Charles and then I'll turn it to Jeff.
Our primary focus post-acquisition was integration and making sure that we're driving the pharmaceutical business their traditional business.
Making sure that we're getting the right positioning and market the right distribution network getting the right as Jeff said LDD business.
And so that's been the priority.
What's been interesting in China is looking at these product line opportunities.
And some have turned out to be less exciting and some actually very exciting.
So we're just really in the early stages in some work around our medical products business some very interesting opportunities in the lab space even some in more consumer activities and Jeff can touch on that in a second.
So it's been a very interesting process.
I think the key when you're in a market like China is that everything looks interesting and you have to use a lot of discipline to identify those opportunities that really you can have an impact and move the needle and those opportunities that are interesting but not necessarily going to make good business.
So we've been really working at it.
It's been an exciting time.
But maybe Jeff can touch on that a little bit.
Yes let me touch on 3 of those that we referenced.
First of all med devices.
I think since this acquisition we've built up a pretty nice med device 3PL business.
We're also growing that into a more full-service line business for med device and have a number of key multinational partners that have launched with us or we're in discussions with.
So again I think that's layering on very nicely.
And we've developed -- and we're developing the national infrastructure that really facilitates that as well as we continue to build out our distribution center and LDD base.
The second one is distributing and selling consumer healthcare products to retail particularly retail pharmacies.
That's a business that we launched at the end of fiscal '11.
We have a strong partner that we've started with in that regard and we're continuing to build that out with additional suppliers.
That business is growing nicely.
It's profitable already.
I'd still -- say it's still relatively small in the overall scheme of things but I am very encouraged about its potential.
And then the last one is sort of a piloting we're doing of specialty direct-to-patient distribution.
And that's in its early stages.
But again I think it has significant potential given the unique characteristics of the Chinese market.
So those are 3 of them that we are sort of building up but feel very good about.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> You've gotten most of mine.
Just Jeff no share repurchase in the quarter.
What's the guidance for the remainder of the year assume on the share repo front? With the $352 million that we -- or 352 million diluted shares outstanding I knew I'd get that eventually that would assume that there's no further repo for the rest of the year Bob.
Our next question comes from the line of David Larsen of Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the specialty business have you guys provided any color around the size of it or the earnings or revenue contribution to the overall book? David this is George.
No we have not.
This is again a business that is still a subset of our Pharmaceutical segment.
And we'll try to provide some color on the progress of what really is a growing business.
But at this point not broken out those details.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if you were to say win the VA contract are you confident that you'd be able to basically supply all the specialty drugs that that large client would need? Yes.
So let me just give a general answer because we've been asked about the VA and it's always tricky.
All we can say is this that we have the capacity and the capabilities to do anything called for should the VA contract come our way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just quickly I think you won a $1-billion defense logistics agency contract in April of '11 which I thought was very big.
And it's my understanding that that would start in 2H fiscal '12.
Is that correct? And was there any impact this quarter to that from that contract? Yes.
So actually we were excited to get that win.
Because of some of the systems issues that the DoD was experiencing they shifted that out a little bit.
So that has not had any impact in us and actually will shift out towards the end of the year.
Yes.
We had originally expected to start implementing that in January of this fiscal year.
But the DoD informed us that they are going through a systems implementation.
We prefer to push off that transition and so we're now expecting it to start rolling out in May of this year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So you get benefit from that and also margin improvement in fiscal '13 from the transformation.
Okay.
And then Express Scripts that's a bulk contract correct? Yes.
We classify all mail order business as sales to bulk customers.
And our last question comes from the line of John Ransom of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jeff could you help us if we look at fiscal '13 versus fiscal '12 what's the net headwind in the Medical segment when you net the increased depreciation versus the decreased implementation spend? Can you size that for us? I don't want to get into specific guidance on the Medical segment specifically or particularly that specific.
All I will say that when you net out everything so net out the benefits that we're getting from the implementation and some of the reduced project spend to implement it versus the increased depreciation we're looking at a fairly healthy benefit next year.
But I wouldn't want to get more specific than that at this point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that was a math question not an essay question but you did really well.
And fairly healthy I'll put that in my model.
The other question is LIPITOR.
Did that drug contribute as expected given some of Pfizer's machinations? And it looks like they held on to maybe 30% of the market.
Was that where you had assumed? Or is that a slight little headwind? Yes John.
No actually that was about as we modeled it.
I think we assumed this was a bit of a unique drug obviously with plenty of attention and unique characteristics.
And I think we made some assumptions.
It turns out we were relatively close.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally on the AMP rule that came out could you just help us with your independent pharmacy base? Do you have any idea what their Medicaid mix is in their pharmacy business and kind of what your early thoughts are about helping them with that? And I guess my other question is our concern is that it might bring some unwanted transparency that kind of line-by-line generic pricing.
And is that something that will create some complexities for you as you deal with these customers going forward? Yes John.
So I can't give you the specific breakout as it relates to independent pharmacies.
As you probably know it's about 8% on a national basis.
It's hard to characterize.
AMP has been out there as you know for many years.
It has been an incredibly noisy subject.
We've always dealt with sort of interesting and challenging reimbursement dynamics around the system and I assume that we'll deal with this one as well.
So it's really hard.
The report that  the piece that came out is how many pages long? 200-some-odd pages.
So it's incredibly complex and we'll work our way through it.
And again it's not a direct effect to us but we'll be watching very closely.
And we have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
George Barrett for any closing remarks.
Well I'd like to thank everyone for being on the call.
In closing we're very encouraged by our first half of fiscal 2012 and again thank all of you for joining us today.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you so much for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Cardinal Health Inc.
Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Sally Curley Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you Ben.
And welcome to Cardinal Health's Third Quarter Fiscal 2012 Conference Call today.
We will be making forward-looking statements.
The matters addressed in the statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to the SEC filings and the forward-looking statements slide at the beginning of the presentation found on the Investor page of our website for a description of risks and uncertainties.
In addition we will reference non-GAAP financial measures.
The information about these measures is included at the end of the slides.
I'd also like to remind you of a few upcoming investment conferences and events in which we will be webcasting; notably: The 2012 Deutsche Bank 37th Annual Healthcare Conference on May 7 in Boston; the Bank of America Merrill Lynch 2012 Healthcare Conference on May 15 in Las Vegas; the Goldman Sachs 33rd Annual Global Healthcare Conference on June 5 in Rancho Palos Verdes California; and the William Blair 32nd Annual Growth Stock Conference on June 14 in Chicago.
The details of these events are -- or will be posted on the IR section of our website at cardinalhealth.com so please make sure to visit the site often for updated information.
We look forward to seeing you at the upcoming events.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to George Barrett.
George? Thanks Sally.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on our third quarter call today.
I'm pleased to report another solid quarter and we have now completed 9 months of excellent overall growth and progress in our areas of strategic focus in FY 2012.
Revenue for the third quarter was $26.9 billion up 3% from the prior year.
Non-GAAP operating earnings increased by 6% to $524 million.
Our non-GAAP EPS grew 16% to $0.94 from last year's $0.81.
Our Pharmaceutical segment delivered 9% profit growth and a revenue gain of 3%.
The Medical segment achieved top line growth of 8% reinforcing our improved positioning in the market but as we had expected the segment recorded a year-over-year profit decline of 17% primarily due to residual commodity cost pressures.
The team had shown great focus offsetting much of its headwind with solid performance in the underlying business.
I'd like to walk you through the performance highlights of these segments.
First Pharmaceutical.
Revenue increases came from multiple classes of trade.
This growth outpaced the market in virtually every channel.
Our focus on creating value for the specific needs of each customer in this dynamic environment remains a top priority.
Our customer base remains strong and the mix continues to evolve along our strategic pathway.
Our non-bulk sales were up 7.6% versus prior year.
Profit was fueled by the continued strength of our generic activities and solid performance with our branded partners whose needs continue to evolve in changing markets.
Our strong generic results reflect the continued focus in this important industry driver and the impact of new and recently launched products a number of which launched in the prior quarter.
I want to take a few moments to comment on our nuclear activities as this part of the industry has been going through some change.
We see distinct market dynamics at work from the 2 different nuclear product lines.
On the low energy side our legacy business demand remains soft.
Although we continue to provide market-leading products and services and the supply of raw materials to us has been reliable the number of nuclear cardiac procedures is considerably below historical norms.
Part of this can be explained by general economic conditions and part is likely associated with payer and employer policies designed to continue growth in medical procedures.
We've been making the necessary modifications to our business to adjust to what may be the new normal from a cardiac-procedure perspective.
I should note here that demographics should in the long-term generate some upward pressure on demand.
As you know our activities in the PET area are at a different stage of evolution.
We were excited to see the FDA approval of Lilly's Amyvid and high-energy products used in PET scanning as a diagnostic product for patients being evaluated for Alzheimer's disease.
We have been an innovator in this area a partner in the development of this product and we will be an important part of the team as a manufacturer and distributor of Amyvid from our specialized facilities.
From a business-model perspective in nuclear while I would love to have been able to synchronize the slowing of the legacy low energy business with the growth coming from the new category of diagnostic products we do recognize that Amyvid is the first product in a category of drugs and because of this we'll take some time to position and to build.
Nevertheless we believe that PET and in particular this new class of drug builds excellent promise for the future.
As a reminder Amyvid is the first of the over 20 diagnostic products in which we are actively involved in clinical trial.
As you know and have heard us say repeatedly we believe a growing presence in specialty is very important to our strategic position.
Our emerging Specialty Solutions group delivered an outstanding revenue growth in the quarter versus last year driven by our provider distribution services.
Approximately $150 million in revenue growth was generated from new and existing distribution customers.
We also find another $100 million in annualized distribution revenues including several large oncology customers.
Having said this we are still in the stage in specialty where any bump in the road can have an impact on the specialty numbers in the near term.
Unfortunately we did have an issue with a customer in the P4 legacy operations that resulted in the loss of some of our business with them primarily affecting margin.
And Jeff will touch on this in his comments.
All in all our Specialty Solutions group is picking up customers creating new products for providers and payers.
And we've built an outstanding management team.
I'm very pleased with the momentum we are gaining the innovation coming out of this team and the promise of continued progress.
I'd like to take a moment to comment on the overall pharmaceutical environment.
These past few months have been active in the pharmaceutical arena.
The dispute between Walgreens and Express Scripts has had some impact on end markets.
The VA contract was awarded and Medco and Express Scripts consummated their transaction.
We are well positioned to complete and deliver value in this environment.
We have developed dedicated tools to support the needs of large and highly integrated customers and feel good about those relationships each of which I might add is unique.
At the same time that we've increased our range of options for the smaller chains hospitals and independent pharmacies that depend on us every day.
Finally before I leave the Pharmaceutical segment I want to provide an update on the VA situation since we last spoke on February 3.
At that time we discussed our contingency planning specifically transitioning the distribution of controlled substances from our Lakeland facility to our Jackson Mississippi facility and other distribution centers.
Since that time we've put the plan in motion.
Litigation is continuing with our show cause hearing before a DEA administrative law judge scheduled to begin on May 7.
We have been investing and will continue to invest in people tools and systems designed to detect and prevent diversion of controlled drugs.
And I know our people are committed to this effort.
Turning to our Medical segment.
We continue to show good revenue growth in a relatively flat medical market a strong validation of our value proposition.
Sales grew by 8% helped by growth across customer channels as well as from the Futuremed acquisition in Canada.
Although systemwide physician office visits were down we continue to see double-digit growth in our ambulatory channel fueled by our business with surgery centers.
And similarly our work around preferred products produced double-digit growth rates outpacing the balance of the portfolio.
We had a number of new product launches during the quarter including the introduction of the Dura Blue sterilization wrap a hydrogel-coated version of our protective surgical glove a plasma soldering device and flexible masks all of which came out of our innovative -- innovation teams.
And just a few comments on our MBT go live.
We are now up and running.
Given the scale of this initiative and the complexity of the implementation it has gone extremely well.
I'll share a few statistics to give you a better sense of this scale.
On a daily basis our Medical segment processes an average of 5 000 customer calls 31 000 orders and 35 000 invoices and I might add MBT had to revise millions of lines and code and billions of rows of data.
Even with all of this we are barely off our previous customer service levels about less than 0.5% change.
We are most appreciative of our customers who have worked closely with us on this major initiative and particularly those who have had to endure some of the glitches that can occur in projects of this scale.
I also want to thank the thousands of employees who have worked tirelessly on this program many putting off vacation and family time to ensure that every issue is addressed and that we deliver significant customer benefits on this investment.
We are now through most of the heavy lifting at MBT.
We have absorbed some considerable commodity headwind and strengthened our value proposition.
We now anticipate that our Medical business will return to positive bottom line growth in Q4 and into our fiscal 2013.
Finally on Medical as you know we announced 2 weeks ago that Don Casey will be joining us to lead this important segment of our business and that Mike Lynch will be leading Cardinal Health.
I will come back to Mike in a few minutes but a few words on Don.
We are thrilled to get an executive of Don's experience insight and drive.
He brings to us more than 2 decades of strategic and operations work in healthcare having touched virtually every area in the industry.
We welcome him and his family to Cardinal Health and look forward to introducing him to those of you who do not already know him.
In the past few quarters I've taken just a few moments to comment on our work in China which crosses segments and businesses and I'd like to do the same today.
I recently returned from a visit to China where I had the opportunity to meet with local and national leaders and policymakers.
I came away from this trip confident that our team is focused on the right drivers of growth for Cardinal Health but this visit also reinforced for me that we're well aligned with national priorities as spelled out in China's 12th 5-year plan.
These priorities include improving the public health and access to affordable healthcare and the development of a vibrant service sector in the economy which will play an important role in promoting domestic demand.
Jeff will provide commentary specific to our business in China when he comments.
In summary I'm pleased by our performance this quarter and over the first 9 months of our fiscal 2012.
And based on the information we have today we're raising the lower end of our guidance resulting in a revised range of $3.15 to $3.20 for fiscal year 2012 non-GAAP EPS.
Finally as I mentioned a few minutes ago Mike Lynch will be leaving the company after a distinguished 28-year career with Cardinal Health and its predecessor company.
Mike's fingerprints can be found throughout our operations through the strategies he developed and the people he mentored.
We wish Mike all the best as he moves forward.
And we thank him for his many contributions and his readiness to work with Don and the medical team as they transition over the coming months.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks George.
Good morning everyone.
In my remarks today I'll explain our financial trends and drivers in the third quarter then I'll touch briefly on our outlook for the remainder of fiscal 2012.
Let's start with Slide 4.
During the quarter we grew our non-GAAP EPS by 16% to $0.94 per share driven by 3% revenue and 6% non-GAAP operating earnings growth.
There's low favorability in our non-GAAP effective tax rate.
Interest and other expense came in $3 million favorable to last year driven by changes in the value of our deferred compensation plan.
Our non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 35.6% lower than prior year and our second quarter of this year.
This quarter's rate was favorably impacted by the mix of foreign and domestic earnings and net favorable discrete items of approximately $3 million.
This $3 million includes 2 sizable and largely offsetting discrete items that I wanted to highlight.
First approximately $45 million relate to the final settlement of certain open audit years which favorably affected the rate.
Second we had a $44 million negative impact triggered by settlement discussions for other open-audit periods and the resulting measurement of unrecognized tax benefits.
As a reminder last year's Q3 rate was abnormally high driven primarily by changes in Puerto Rican tax law.
Our share count in Q3 was about 349 million diluted  average shares outstanding versus 353 million in the prior year's quarter.
I would like to point out that our fiscal '12 share count guidance is now approximately 350 million shares.
Favorability in our share count versus last year continued to be driven by the $300 million of share buybacks we completed in Q1.
As a reminder we still have $450 million of share repurchase remaining under our board authorization.
Let me pause here to reiterate our position regarding capital deployment.
You may want to reference Slide 7 as I do so.
As we've consistently emphasized since redefining our deployment strategy at the time of the CareFusion spend our objective is to have a balanced approach that begins with maintaining and growing our differentiated dividend.
In fact just yesterday we announced board approval of a 10.5% increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.2375 per share or $0.95 annualized.
This dividend represents a key move 70% increase from the per-share amount we're paying at fiscal 2009 prior to the CareFusion spend and represents a current yield of about 2.2%.
Second we make sure that we are investing appropriately in our capital expenditures to support and drive organic growth.
In this regard we continue to expect to invest $250 million to $270 million in FY '12 with the majority of that in IT-related processes and systems.
Beyond that we don't have a fixed formula.
Our goal is to ensure that we are positioning for sustainable competitive advantage and to create shareholder value.
Clearly over the past 12 to 24 months acquisitions have played a role in positioning us for sustained growth.
Over that time we have also continued to buy back shares on an opportunistic basis.
Before shifting the discussion to segment results let me comment on a few items from our consolidated cash flow and the balance sheet.
Our strong earnings performance coupled with reductions in networking capital led to excellent operating cash flow of nearly $900 million in Q3 bringing the year-to-date amount to approximately $1.3 billion.
We did have a few unique items affecting our working capital metrics in the quarter.
Days sales outstanding were higher this quarter versus last year due primarily to certain issues related to our Medical Business Transformation go live in early February.
While the MBT implementation was overall a definite success as one would expect with the implementation of this size we did encounter a few problems.
Specifically there were some temporary back-office issues including invoicing which we are still in the process of resolving.
This affected our quarter end AR balance and in turn our DSOs.
Days inventory on hand was higher in the quarter due to the on-boarding of a customer in pharma and the timing of this quarter end.
We ended Q3 with approximately $2.4 billion in cash of which approximately $200 million was held overseas.
This cash balance does not include our investments in health and maturity fixed income securities which totaled approximately $90 million at quarter end.
Now let's move to Q3 segment performance referring primarily to Slides 5 and 6 starting with the Pharma segment.
Revenue in the segment increased 3%.
Overall growth with existing customers was a primary driver but let me walk through a few more of the details.
As George said non-bulk sales were up 7.6% for the quarter and reached 60% of total segment revenue.
We again experienced strong growth in our generic programs up 18%.
And Specialty Solutions continues to add new distribution customers growing revenue this quarter 59%.
Pharma segment profit margin rate increased by 10 basis points compared to the prior year's Q3 in part reflecting continued mix shifts with both customers and products.
In fact we saw margin rate growth in virtually every one of our pharma distribution classes of trade.
We continue to see significant contribution from the ongoing success of our generics programs including the favorable impact of recently launched generic products with equivalent to LIPITOR ZYPREXA and Lexapro contributing strongly.
Generic deflation rates continue to be below historical norms with deflation this quarter roughly in line with Q2 and the prior year's Q3.
While we do not believe the industry dynamics moderate generic deflation will necessarily change in the near term we do expect the overall deflation rate on our portfolio of products to increase next quarter and into next year as certain recently launched items pass their exclusivity period.
As you know our nuclear businesses has had a rough stretch and we continue to be challenged by the low energy market softness we described in our last 2 calls.
We continue to take actions within that business to mitigate the impact of this.
One of these initiatives did result in inventory write-off we mentioned in last quarter's call.
This write-off lowered segment profit by $11 million or approximately $0.02 per share in the quarter.
As George said we did have some positive developments on the positron emission tomography side of the business recently with Eli Lilly and Amyvid a PET diagnostic agent which we have previously highlighted receiving FDA approval on April 6.
Regarding our DEA-related issues in Florida as George mentioned we have been transitioning distribution of controlled substances from our Lakeland Florida facility primarily to our Jackson Mississippi operation.
For the quarter we did incur some incremental cost associated with the DEA issue which totaled over $4 million.
This amount includes legal and other external fees and was recorded in the Pharma segment.
Our expectations for any continued negative impact are reflected in our guidance.
In summary the Pharma segment had another strong quarter resulting in a 9% increase in segment profit to $446 million.
Now turning to our Medical segment.
For the quarter revenue increased by 8.2% to $2.4 billion.
Let me highlight a few items driving this result.
We saw another good increase in revenue from our preferred products with 11% growth in the quarter.
As we've highlighted in the past this is a key growth and margin expansion opportunity for us.
Our ambulatory channel another important focus area for us also had another strong quarter with 11% revenue growth.
Cardinal Health Canada had a strong quarter with 16% revenue growth including the contribution from the acquisition of Futuremed during the period.
Consistent with the last quarter I wanted to quantify a couple of unique items which contributed to our reported Medical revenue growth this quarter although I would note that they had a relatively insignificant impact on segment profit growth.
First as the ongoing effect of having transitioned our business with CareFusion to a traditional branded distribution model a move that we highlighted in our Q3 earnings call last year this change added 2 percentage points or $46 million to revenue.
As we have now lapped this transition this will be last time I quantify its impact on Medical segment growth.
The second item the impact of the refinement we've made in the way we report results for our international commercial operations which I discussed in detail on our Q1 call this change contributed 1.9 percentage points to the Medical segment revenue growth rate in the quarter.
Now turning to Medical segment profit which as we expected declined 17% to $89 million.
Consistent with the forecast we provided on last quarter's call commodity prices negatively impacted our Q3 cost of products sold by $20 million versus last year.
For the full year we're still expecting a headwind of slightly under $70 million.
On the issue of commodities I want to remind everyone that due to the 4- to 6-month lag between price movements and the corresponding impact on our cost of products sold further changes of commodity price levels during this fiscal year will have more of an FY '13 and FY '12 impact.
On that note let me comment on what the information we have available to us today says about the impact for next year.
Currently we anticipate the commodity headwind we've been facing which range from $60 million to $70 million in FY '11 and FY '12 to significantly lessen for FY '13.
Although the price of oil remains fairly volatile based on today's information we expect the gross headwind to be closer to $5 million to $15 million next year -- it's $5 million to $15 million next year although that will clearly fluctuate over time.
Also as I mentioned on last quarter's call we saw approximately $8 million of incremental expense associated with the Medical Business Transformation launch as we began to depreciate the assets and incurred additional spend associated with the national implementation.
We're currently forecasting a similar level of incremental expense in Q4.
Partially offsetting the effect of the negative items I just mentioned was the positive margin benefit of increased sales of our preferred products.
Now I'd like to follow-up on George's comments regarding Cardinal Health China.
Our revenue in China was again strong and we continue to see outstanding growth from our local direct distribution business which grew its revenue by 45% during the quarter.
And at the end of Q3 we have expanded to 10 distribution center sites in China and the service area covers more than 250 million people.
We remain excited about the opportunity we have in China to partner with brand pharmaceutical and medical device companies and progress in this regard continues to gain momentum.
And we continue to move forward well in the new business areas we've initiated over the past while including consumer healthcare products for retail pharmacies direct-to-patients specialty distribution and medical device distribution.
Let's turn to Slide 8 which I'll just summarize.
In total GAAP results in the quarter include items that had a positive $0.01 per share net after-tax impact.
This compares to a negative $0.10 per share net impact in our GAAP results last year.
There are 2 unique items recorded in Q3 related to our specialty business which are excluded from our non-GAAP results.
The first is related to the P4 Healthcare earnout contingency.
We updated our forecast for future EBITDA generation which resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our total contingent consideration obligation bringing the remaining earnout liability from the P4 acquisition to $23 million.
You will see this appears in approximately $55 million or $0.10 per share gain in acquisition related costs.
The reduction in our forecast and corresponding earnout liability is largely driven by the revenue loss and a significant customer of the P4 Healthcare legacy business which given the nature of this services business has a relatively high margin impact.
Separately the other item related to specialty is tied to our decision to rebrand our Specialty business with Cardinal Health Specialty Solutions and to largely discontinue use of the P4 trade name.
This resulted in a $16 million write-off recorded in the impairment line.
And again to be clear neither of these 2 unique items relate to specialty which net to a positive $0.07 per share are reflected in our non-GAAP results for our Pharma segment numbers we've been discussing.
Keeping in mind that we have about 8 weeks left in our fiscal year our FY '12 guidance range takes into account some key factors that could still change including generic launch values generic deflation and branded price increases.
And to be clear our new guidance range of $3.15 to $3.20 assumes we do not have a LIFO charge in Q4.
I'll also point out that we made some minor changes to our full-year assumptions for share count interest and other and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets as shown on Slide 11.
Note that we have left our full-year tax rate assumption unchanged despite the lower rate we had in Q3.
Now I'm going to turn it over to our operator to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question today comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> George if we look ahead for fiscal year '13 can you provide us any guidance for fiscal year '13 on generics? And what's your expectation for total revenue growth for the year? At this point we're not prepared to guide.
We're still looking through our planning process.
I can give you some color on what we see on generics going forward and hopefully that will be of some help.
I'll start with this.
We expect our generic business to grow.
I would probably say that the number and value of generic launches in our fiscal '13 is probably lower than in our fiscal '12.
And as Jeff mentioned some of the products that launched let's say in the last 4 to 5 months will lose their exclusivity.
So we expect to see some deflation on those products but it's sort of an extraordinary time in the industry.
We're probably looking at the potential of total system-wide generic penetration exceeding 80% sometime next year which is really a sort of mind-boggling number.
And so this will help fuel and the work that we're doing in our generic program in general we think will help fuel continued growth.
But that's probably the general color I could give you at this stage.
Ricky I think there might have been a second question there about revenue growth for next year which I assume was overall growth.
Then again we're still going through our planning process so I don't want to be too specific here.
I think we all recognize that FY '13 is going to be an interesting year with respect to revenue just due to the sheer volume of large branded products that have and will come off patent in this fiscal year.
The obvious is that could very well result in flat to negative revenue growth in Pharma and the overall company next year.
Although as you know that can actually be good for our gross margin.
So that's our early thinking but there's still a lot things to play out over the next couple of months.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So from our regard we should think about like flattish to negative revenue growth but continued margin expansion as generic compliance increases.
Is that fair? Yes.
Again I don't want to get too specific on margin but I would say if you look at the impact of the products going off patent there's 2 impacts.
Just looking at those in isolation they will tend to dampen the revenue and I think an assumption of flattish to slightly down is probably reasonable.
And they generally will be positive to our gross margin rate so...
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci from Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> There's obviously been a lot of talk in the marketplace around customers and turnover and renewals and potential customers that are coming up for renewal.
And so I was wondering if you can make any comments on maybe your top 5 or so customers and their status? And how you're sort of thinking about renewals or contracts over the next year or so? Yes it's George.
I'll start with this one.
Again we are generally -- provide somewhat limited information on specific customers but some of this I think is fairly available out there in the public domain so I can comment on a few of the contract renewals and just general timing.
So couple of things to say.
We have renewed a couple that you may know with Kmart and Kroger have now been renewed in terms of long-term contracts that extend beyond FY '15.
That's always helpful to us in terms of long-term stability and we'll continue to work closely with these customers.
I think you all know from other calls that the status of the Express Scripts contract is extended that current agreement until the end of September and are in the process of responding to an RFP which is there to include the entire Express plus Medco business.
There's not much we can say honestly about that in terms of the outcome other than to say we've been a very solid and I think outstanding supplier to Express Scripts and we look forward to continuing that relationship.
Both CVS and Walgreens contract run through this summer of 2013 so still over a year away.
Not much to say about that other than those are 2 very important customers and outstanding relationships.
And one which we've been getting some questions about and questions we probably should comment on which is that we did pick up Safeway we've been asked this and I thought we should confirm that for a multi-year agreement.
So we really are excited about this.
We view this not just not just as a new customer but as a terrific partnership going forward.
So that will probably give you some color on the contracts that we would typically make some comment on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Just 2 quick follow-ups.
Do you have any idea about timing on when you might hear on the Express situation? And since you did confirm Safeway is there any color you can provide as to maybe the dynamics around that contract change? No.
For the first 2 parts of the question.
I don't think I can provide specifics on when we'll hear regarding the RFP on Express Scripts.
I suppose it is possible that we could here by the time we speak with you again for our year-end numbers but no certainty at this point.
The second part -- I'm sorry -- on Safeway.
Yes there's not much color I can provide for you here.
Obviously each agreement that we have with our partners is obviously quite proprietary.
And as I've said earlier they're quite specific and distinct.
I can say that it's a broad-based agreement and it covers branded lines and generic lines and we're excited to be with them.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from the line of Jim Elliott from Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick housekeeping question here.
Can we get the profitability split between bulk and direct store delivery? Sure.
This is Jeff.
The bulk rate for Q3 was 59 basis points and the non-bulk rate was 2.64%.
Let's put that in a little bit of context.
As we said before we don't think looking at these particular margins on a quarterly basis necessarily tells the complete or accurate story.
So we think the most appropriate comparison is over multiple quarters like kind of smoothes up quarterly blips et cetera that often occur.
So in that vein let me give you the year-to-date figures.
Year-to-date bulk margins are 40 basis points and non-bulk are 2.52%.
And for comparison to last year last year's rates in that same period were 35 basis points and 2.40% respectively.
Our next question comes from the line of Larry Marsh from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'd like to maybe get you to frame kind of where you sit on MBT.
Obviously as you said George your go live process is in motion.
You spent some incremental funds this quarter which ended up with a result that's a little better than I was thinking for this quarter.
But as you think about this full year and next year how should we frame the overall cost associated investment with MBT versus benefit this year next year? And then sort of how  do we think about it as a go-forward basis? And then as we sort of think about next year is there -- with the I guess medical device tax to go into effect next year how do we think about impact in our models? Why don't I let Jeff touch base on this.
So I'm kind of chuckling a little bit as I get the MBT question because I'm recalling John Ransom's accusation of me giving an essay question an essay answer to a math question last time so let me try to be a little bit more math-y with my response this time John if you're out there.
So and I will now that we've completed the go live I do want to provide a few more details regarding -- with the expense impact and future benefits.
So first of all let me talk about fiscal '12.
For the full year we'll incur about $32 million of expense related to both project implementation expense and depreciation.
And it's about equally divided between the 2.
On the benefit side in FY '12 as we said before there are very few benefits realized this year.
We're really focused right now on cleaning up any remaining problems and ensuring customer satisfaction and that will continue to be our focus for the next couple of months.
Now beginning in fiscal 2013 and I'll start on the expense side here we have a full year depreciation which kicks in and that's worth about $34 million next year.
Because MBT was really replacing systems that are quite old there isn't much in the way of elimination of depreciation expense for the systems being replaced.
And then there'll also be a relatively modest amount of ongoing annual costs to sustain the system and do enhancements.
Now on the benefit side we do expect the income statement benefits to begin in 2015 and ramp up over time.
Bottom line though we expect the financial benefits resulting from MBT next year to exceed the ongoing annual expense in the system.
So in summary the project will be net accretive for fiscal 2013 and beyond.
We also expect that net benefit to increase over time as we fully utilize all the benefits of the new system.
That pretty much answers the MBT question.
On med device tax as you all know the medical device tax is currently scheduled to kick off on January 1 of 2013 assuming that the medical Health Care Reform continues as scheduled.
Now you should know that there has -- there still is considerable debate around the exact final regulations as it relates to the medical device tax.
But based on our current interpretation of those regulations and our current product mix we estimate the half year impact next year to be somewhere in the range of $13 million to $23 million.
I know that's a wide range but the size of that range is really being driven by different assumptions regarding which of our offerings this tax will be applied to.
And until we get some further definition of that in that regard we'll be looking at that sort of range again $13 million to $23 million for the half year of impact next year.
Now I should also point out that this is a gross impact and that's before any mitigating actions that business takes to minimize its impact on us.
And I guess just a final point of clarity from an accounting perspective this tax will appear as SG&amp;A on our income statement.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Just a quick follow-up then on that point.
I mean to the extent that tax it raises price to your customers so I guess you're suggesting you don't anticipate any ability to offset that with raising price to your customers.
And then maybe just a follow-up on Medical with Don coming on board.
George you may have covered this but when do you hope to have him in a position to kind of comment on his initial views and perspectives of where he wants to take the business here once he's on board fully? First let me -- just a quick comment on the question with the hypothesis you gave Jeff in terms of our ability to mitigate the tax.
But first of all as you probably know there's also still considerable discussion around medical device tax.
And I won't go into a long treatise as to whether our products of the nature that we sell that are competitive should be taxed at all.
And there's still some action around this.
As it relates to our ability to mitigate I don't think we should preclude any option for us.
Jeff is trying to give you the gross impact.
And obviously it will be for Don and team to think about what strategies we can deploy to make sure that that is fairly -- that we have to experience that it's fairly distributed across those in the channel.
And I think that's one of the things to consider.
Don is on board.
He is up to speed and as we expect will not be shy about giving you his perspective on where we are.
Obviously Jeff is getting into the business now and Don is on board working closely with Mike.
And so I'm hoping that probably by the time we get a chance to talk with you all in August he's probably going to feel a lot more comfortable with life with Cardinal Health and with the business will have gone through our planning process that will actually be up and extremely a fast learning experience there in terms of the nature of Cardinal Health and what we're doing.
So that's it.
Our next question comes from the line of David Larsen from Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the DEA situation I mean several years ago there was some impact on your sales.
And I think what I'm hearing is there's really -- there really have -- sales have been going very well and there has not been any negative impact due to the current situation.
Is that correct? I would just say that at this point our customers have been tremendously supportive.
And we've I think put in a very effective contingency plan and we're doing everything to make sure that customers are served.
So that's what I will say.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And there's a Defense department contractor I think that should be ramping up in May for the Medical segment.
Is that still on track for the May start? Yes it is.
That process is still expected to continue this month.
As a reminder we initially had expected that to start transitioning in February.
But at the request of the DoD due to systems implementation they were making it got deferred to May.
So it will be a gradual ramp up as we bring on the various elements of that.
But the timing you described is still accurate from the beginning of that ramp up.
Our next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> George I was wondering if you could maybe just give us some comments around pricing that you're seeing on the generic side? I think Watson last week on their conference call or earlier this week noted that they would expect roughly 4 to 6 generic manufacturers for Lipitor post-180 days of exclusivity but were expecting price to drop pretty substantially.
What do you see? And what are your thoughts on -- as we have the outlook for generics over the next several months will some of these bigger drugs lose their exclusivity period? Right.
Good question.
It is -- it's hard obviously to know exactly what it's going to look like at the expiration of that exclusivity.
But I think we probably have the same perspective in terms of the number of players that we're seeing on that particular drug.
So here's what I'd say in terms of the overall environment you almost have to have to look at this in 3 buckets.
You have the products that are sitting in exclusive periods that will sort of go through the binary change when competition ensues.
And then you have this enormous basket of thousands of products.
And then you have some individual products that essentially suggest inflows.
And I would say in general in that middle bucket we're not seeing any particularly noteworthy change in the pricing environment.
It looks quite as it did last -- last quarter.
Obviously we will see some of these big products that go from being alone or alone with generics to 4 or 5 6 players.
And I think once you get into that range then it will be reasonable to assume some fairly significant deflation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as my follow-up I just wanted to clarify that I heard a couple of things correctly.
On the nuclear did you talk about an $11 million write-off in the quarter around nuclear? And then secondly on DEA did you say that that cost roughly $4 million in the quarter? So if we think about the next quarter shall we anticipate that there'll be another roughly $4 million cost associated with DEA? Yes.
First of all on the nuclear issue yes you did hear correctly.
That was an $11 million inventory write-off.
As you may recall from last quarter's call Lisa I sort of foreshadowed that that was a possibility.
As we are taking actions to mitigate some of the demand softness that we've been experiencing a result of one of those initiatives was to write-off some of some inventory that we had and that was exactly that.
So I think I had sized it as $0.02 or $0.03 so when I talked about it last quarter ended up being $0.02 of the $11 million that I described.
And Lisa regarding the DoD cuts they were slightly over $4 million this quarter.
I'm not going to try to forecast exactly what they may be next quarter other than to say that I think any reasonable range of possibilities is reflected in our guidance.
Yes.
I probably would answer that just recognize we're sort of in the middle of some -- it's been a relatively tense legal period so some of that of course is associated with just the work around the legal operational numbers are smaller.
I wouldn't expect a dramatically different number than what we experienced in Q4 -- in Q3 at this point.
Research Division</strong> So George I mean would I characterize this correctly in the fact that you kept both of these costs that will be more onetime in your numbers that the margins in the quarter were actually probably slightly better than what you would've anticipated? I mean I know you knew about nuclear but core business is even slightly better than what you printed today? Is that the right way to think about it? There's always a unique event in every quarter right? But yes the $11 million was reflected in the Pharma segment.
You could argue absent that margins would've been better.
And the roughly $1.4 million of DEA cost was also reflected in the Pharma segment.
Now whether that's onetime or not I guess we'll see as we go forward depending on the ultimate resolution of that.
So yes there were a couple of somewhat unique items and they ended up here in the Pharma segment.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Jones from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Actually just had a big picture question on the Medical side.
Outside of the expected commodity headwind that business continues to perform well.
Your largest competitor in the acute care space has been talking about a shifting in leverage towards the customer particularly as these larger IDNs get larger.
I was hoping maybe you could just weigh in on what you're seeing from that customer base? And has there been any notable pressure as a result of the consolidation that has been going on at your customer base? Well I would start with certainly confirming that -- the notion that there has been consolidation among the customer base.
There's no question that we're seeing hospitals either under a lot of pressure and anticipating significant pressure going forward.
And they're finding and looking for ways to create value.
That can create some present pressure for sure.
It also for us creates an opportunity to be able to deliver a message around how to create value for them.
Price is one element in the way you create value.
We have a broad portfolio of products and services that we can bring to bear to the market particularly a highly integrated IDN.
And so our message to them is really about our ability to create value for you in an environment that is -- has quite a number of pressures.
So we'd never dispute that there is pressure that comes from large customers but I would also say that in some ways this enables us to articulate our value proposition about how we can create value for them.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And I guess just my follow-up moving over to P4 which I guess I should refer to it as Specialty Solutions now.
Outside of the write-down of the earnout liability which sounds like it was largely linked to just one loss.
I was wondering George maybe if you could just take a step back and maybe just share your experiences in specialty today maybe versus what you thought originally and maybe just talk to some of the challenges that exist in that business relative to maybe where you guys were when you first entered with P4.
Sure.
It's a good question probably deserves a larger answer than we'll put in in this call.
But let me give you a quick overview.
The answer is we felt strongly that our moving into specialty strategically has been important to us.
We recognize the med acquisition that we are buying a business that essentially had 3 -- sort of 3 legs to the stool basically 3 components to the strategy.
One which is it's a business activity that provide tools to oncologists and other specialty practices that has now expanded.
A second part of the stool that was really supporting the payer community with products and services.
And the third which is the area in which we had this loss of business was really in what I'd call marketing services about Pharma.
We've typically seen we are really pleased with the progress in our tools to support the provider community.
And those tools include a much more robust position in -- in the distributional specialty and you can see that scenario will impact [indiscernible].
And we also -- if you remember it was an area that was off to a pretty slow start so really pleased to see that momentum.
I think our work with the payer community particularly around [indiscernible] is actually very interesting and I think was quite innovative in that area.
And always in the biopharmaceutical services it's not a large customer base.
So in this case where we lost some business from one customer we can actually feel it because it's the chunk of the high margin business.
So that's sort of how I describe where we are.
I'm really pleased at the evolution of the team.
We've got some just terrific talent in that group.
I think the kinds of innovative approaches that we're taking to the market recognizing that this is a world undergoing a lot of changes is pretty exciting to us.
So it's just been a little bit of a mixed bag.
And I hope we've been pretty transparent about which parts have been going well which parts have been more challenging and the progress.
But I'm really looking forward to the future with that business.
Our next question comes from the line of John Kreger from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up to Bob's question on Specialty.
George would you be willing given the puts and takes just to size that business if we think about '13 and beyond? No.
I'm sorry John at this point we've got to keep this in a perspective of the segment and is reported as part of the Pharmaceutical segment.
As I said I mean the overall mix is still a relatively small business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And a similar question it sounds like the top line growth from Specialty improved sequentially.
How about the profit growth in the business? How's that doing? Well I think again the profit growth in this particular case was hampered significantly by the loss of the time margin sort of consulting marketing services part of the business.
Research Division</strong> If you think about '13 should we -- can we assume that profit growth and revenue growth in Specialty should be pretty comparable? Yes.
As we continue to ramp -- this is Jeff by the way John thanks for the question.
As we continue to ramp up our distribution business I think we feel very good about the revenue outlook for specialty.
However I think due to the loss of this unique customer probably the margin dollars will be somewhat challenged in the next 12 months or so as we work to replace that business and as the other parts of the business continue to grow.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette from UBS.
Research Division</strong> But just in relation to the DEA I'm assuming there are some additional operational costs you're incurring to use that backup facility in Mississippi.
So I'm wondering is that material and quantifiable or is that just really so tiny that doesn't matter? Just trying to get a little more color on that.
That -- the incremental operational cost was included in the $4 million of incremental cost that I described earlier.
And that $4 million is composed of legal fees other outside consulting fees additional compliance costs and incremental transportation costs.
So it's a portion of that $4 million.
Our next question is from the line of Glen Santangelo from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about the 4Q -- the implied 4Q guidance.
If you're kind of telling us that you swallowed an incremental $0.03 this quarter in DEA and in the nuclear business it kind of makes results obviously look that much better than if you look at the sequential decline in earnings power you're now expecting 4Q it just kind of doesn't make sense.
And so I'm kind of curious outside of the obvious some of the key generics losing their exclusivities is there anything in particular that you want to call out for 4Q that'll be a headwind that maybe we're not thinking about? First of all and to put things in perspective based on the range of guidance that we've given for the year that implies the EPS growth rate for Q4 somewhere between low to mid teens to low 20 which I would still describe as a pretty robust rate of growth.
And I'll also say that traditionally Q3 -- in terms of sequential dollars Q3 has always been our strongest quarter traditionally and that remains the case.
So one would naturally expect Q4 to be sequentially lower.
And on the one-timers you described I would agree that nuclear was somewhat unique to Q3 but I wouldn't describe the DEA issue necessarily being unique to Q3.
Most of those costs are continuing this quarter up until today and absence some sort of resolution will continue.
Just stepping back and sort of talking about what are some of the major drivers of what would drive a sequential decline in dollars in Q3 to Q4.
And again some of this is quite typical for example by margin decline and I would describe that as sort of our typical seasonal pattern that we see most years.
I also expect the tax rate to return to a more normalized level in Q4 the Q3 rate was somewhat low for the reasons I described.
Third issue is the one you referenced.
With LIPITOR and ZYPREXA coming off exclusivity we do expect those to start deflating and that should have an impact on some of our generic dollars.
And then the final issue we've talked about is the impact of the special loss of business with one customer.
That happened during Q3 so we'll feel the full impact of that in Q4.
So those are the things I would point to but again I would come back to the point that our guidance implies teens to low 20s growth in EPS.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Jeff maybe if I could just ask one follow-up then.
Obviously you reported a couple of quarters in a row here decent upside but yet the quarters didn't have any share repurchasing at the past 2 quarters.
So what's your thought there given the remaining $450 million on the authorization? I mean when do you expect to start to get active on that front again? I think it's a great question.
But as you know we would never tell exactly if and when we're going to be repurchasing shares.
I will say it's always an option right? We do have that $450 million less -- left I'm sorry we do intend to be opportunistic about it.
And depending on market conditions and us having an available window to purchase et cetera I think it's an option at any point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's no debt maturities or there's no reason you're taking your leverage down or anything along those lines? You're just kind of waiting to be opportunistic? Correct.
We have no intention of changing our debt level at this point or reducing our debt level at this point let me put it that way.
So no it's really just a matter of being opportunistic and flexible.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Rhyee from Cowen &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
But maybe a couple of clarifications.
Jeff you kind of said on the Medical when we think about the expenses versus benefits.
You said that fiscal '13 we're going to have a full depreciation then plus the ongoing annual cost that you said the benefit should exceed the annual cost.
But is that to say that it doesn't exceed both that and the depreciation? No.
When I was referring to annual cost I was including depreciation in that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So still our net benefit in '13 is positive? Correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the commodity headwind you said $5 million to $15 million right? Yes that's correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
As we think about the distribution though through the year is it fair to think that we are looking at sort of a net benefit in the first half of '13 but then maybe it turns a little more headwind in the back half of '13? [indiscernible] I don't want to get too specific at this point until we work through our final budget.
And quite honestly it's really only the first 3 months or so that we have really good visibility so we're basing the rest of year off of forward range et cetera right now.
So I wouldn't like to be too specific about the seasonal pattern at this point.
I think I'll just leave it at the overall impact of $5 million to $15 million.
And probably as we get to August we'll give a little bit more detail in terms of quarterly impact in that regard.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe the last question just going back to P4 here.
So this contract that you guys lost can you talk about what occurred that made the contract move here or that the people lost it? And does the market gain sort of this consulting side of the business remain important to the specialty strategy? Again I'm not going to be able to share.
We didn't actually lose -- we lost business with a customer so we didn't lose a customer.
We lost business with the customer.
It just happened to be high-margin business.
And as I said it's sort of -- we're at that stage where we can feel this kind of bump.
I would say right now that even the marketing services they're still part of the strategy I think Meg and team have continued to -- will look at the areas of greatest potential for us.
We are -- in some ways we have a disadvantage in being a little bit of a smaller business and we have the advantage of being a smaller business which is that we can do a lot of course correction and forward-looking thinking about how to evolve this business.
So just remember that we've actually picked up a fair amount of new business in Specialty.
But the margin impact of a loss of this part of this customer's business is meaningful.
Our next question comes from the line of John Ransom from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My other question is if we step back and look at the business and I'm talking about the distribution business say the intermediate term.
Let's say we're in a world where maybe 5% of the drugs have gone generic and that caliber slows down and we're in a deflation cycle.
What was the -- in your mind George what does the profit picture look like for the business intermediate term? Are we just kind of stuck in a profit deflation cycle and you've got to be clever with using capital and continuing to diversify around other businesses? Yes John.
I wouldn't say we're stuck in a profit deflation cycle.
We will see cyclical pricing on generics which certainly affect the business.
But by and large our generic business through the cycle is growing and the profit that comes from that business is meaningful continues to be meaningful.
And so much of that has to do with the way we run the program that has to do with our ability to penetrate accounts our sourcing models our ability to use scale.
And so yes I wouldn't translate the -- necessarily the deflation of the product they come out of exclusivity to a long-term sense of stagnation that's not the way I see it.
And with no further questions in queue I'd like to turn the conference back over to George Barrett for any closing remarks.
So again thank you all for joining us this morning.
We're excited to report another solid quarter.
And we look forward to talking with you again in the coming weeks.
And surely we'll see you over the coming meetings that Sally referenced.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Have a great rest of the day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Cardinal Health Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call may be recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Sally Curley.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you and welcome to Cardinal Health's fourth quarter fiscal 2012 and our FY '13 guidance conference call.
Today we will be making forward-looking statements and matters addressed in these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to the SEC filings and the forward-looking statements slide at the beginning of the presentation found on the Investor page of our website for a description of those risks and uncertainties.
In addition we will reference non-GAAP financial measures.
Information about these measures is included at the end of the slides.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
George Barrett.
George? Thanks Sally.
Good morning and thanks to all of you for joining us today for our fiscal 2012 fourth quarter and year-end call.
2012 was a year of considerable accomplishments.
We achieved virtually all of our financial goals including revenues operating profit earnings per share margin rate growth and capital efficiency.
We made excellent progress in most of our strategic priorities and continued to strengthen our organization through a focus on talent development and supplemented through the addition of some world-class talent.
It was also a year which brought us challenges.
But through this we continued to grow and to learn a necessary ingredient for any organization with bold long-term aspirations.
The work we've done in fiscal 2012 continued to move us down a path we started on 3 years ago when we spun off CareFusion and set in motion a plan to transform Cardinal Health.
Today we serve a total of over 25 000 retail pharmacies including chain food combo and over 7 500 independents a group that 3 years ago numbered around 4 000.
So we possess a significantly broader network of Positron Emission Tomography facilities well positioned to grow and benefit from the exciting developments in neuroscience and oncology.
Today our specialty solutions group serves more than 1 700 oncologists through almost 400 oncology practices.
We serve in excess of 150 urology practices 70% of the nation's largest practices all customers with which we had virtually no presence just a few years ago.
We have grown substantially in our ability to serve health care customers in subacute settings and to follow patients through the continuum of care.
Our preferred medical product programs offer significant value for our customers and this area is growing at a rate significantly in excess of market rates contributing disproportionately to our margin.
We have built an IT platform for our Medical segment which should allow us to marshal the full capabilities of Cardinal Health portfolio and to create value for our customers replacing a patchwork of systems which in the past made it difficult to work across business lines.
Today we have a business in China which is positioned to serve this enormous population and will act as a platform for growth for a number of business lines and as a platform for innovation.
These operational and strategic accomplishments have helped us achieve important financial goals.
You may recall that during our December 2010 Investor Day we laid out some long-term financial objectives.
These included achievement of a compound annual non-GAAP EPS growth rate and operational TSR of at least 10% and 11% respectively.
Operational TSR being defined as EPS growth plus dividend yield.
We have tracked well ahead of those trajectories in 2011 and 2012 and remain committed to those long-term goals.
Let me offer some observations about the quarter just completed then I'll provide some color on our expectations for fiscal year 2013.
We had a strong fourth quarter.
While our revenues were essentially flat largely an outcome of brand-to-generic conversions our non-GAAP EPS of $0.73 was up 22% versus last year's fourth quarter.
Our Pharma segment continued its strong performance with 15% profit growth as margins continued to expand.
Performance under our branded agreement new customer wins and strong contributions from our base of independent pharmacy customers contributed to profit growth.
Our pharma distribution business held its 21st Annual Retail Business Conference just a few weeks ago.
We enjoyed the largest turnout to date with nearly 7 500 people in attendance representing 4 100 pharmacies.
The event provides peer-to-peer networking buying opportunities continuing education sessions and programs and technologies to help pharmacists improve patient care efficiency and profitability.
And lastly we closed on our acquisition of the regional wholesaler Dik Drug giving us the opportunity to serve another 500 independent pharmacies.
This acquisition is consistent with our strategy to both build out a retail independent customer base and grow our generics business.
Our Specialty Solutions group posted another quarter of robust revenue growth.
The business continues to build important relationships with both providers and payers by offering innovative and value-enhancing programs as evidenced by increased revenues from both new and existing customers.
Highlights from the quarter included continued traction in the focus areas of oncology and rheumatology.
On the provider front specifically we've been named as the primary health care solutions partner for the Medical Oncology Association of Southern California Purchasing Network.
We added several major new GPO accounts and achieved important wins in rheumatology.
At the same time we introduced new technology solutions to enhance payer and physician collaboration to improve the quality and the cost of caring for patients with complex diseases.
Our nuclear performance in the quarter was again characterized by 2 distinct patterns.
Demand in the low energy business remained soft indicative of the industry's macroeconomic and reimbursement trends while the PET business continued to show growth.
As I mentioned last quarter we've been taking the necessary actions to ensure we're operating as efficiently as possible in our low energy business.
On the other hand we remain very excited about the future of PET.
I would note that PET doses have grown at a compound annual growth rate of 16% since fiscal 2008.
We continue to support numerous clinical trials and we're pleased to note that we have begun producing commercial doses of Amyvid Eli Lilly's new diagnostic brain imaging agent.
Turning to Medical.
Revenue increased 5% to $2.4 billion.
Profit increased 2% to $79 million due to strong growth of our preferred products offset by the expenses related to MBT our medical business systems transformation.
And the year-long commodity headwind moderated as expected during the quarter to around $6 million.
Our 2012 stream of Cardinal Health branded product launches designed to bring quality value and enhanced clinical benefit to our customers has been well received and contributed to revenue growth in the fourth quarter.
And just a few weeks ago we announced the launch of our new integrated orthopedic solutions offering that will allow hospitals and surgery centers to access high-quality fair-priced orthopedic products.
We believe our unique blend of product and supply chain expertise can bring greater cost effectiveness to our orthopedic customers.
The ambulatory care channel physicians' offices surgery centers and other subacute markets continued to record good growth in the fourth quarter.
We will continue to expand our position here as care continues to move into more efficient and specialized settings.
Our Canadian business had a strong fourth quarter with double-digit revenue growth.
The integration of Futuremed our third quarter 2012 acquisition continues to go well.
We feel confident that Futuremed will complement our existing acute care medical surgical platform and enhance our ability to serve Canadian patients across the health care continuum.
Now I'd like to give you some color on our expectations for fiscal year 2013.
Because of the enormous shift in dollars associated with the conversion of over $30 billion of brand-name to generic drugs over the past 9 months and the nonrenewal of the Express Scripts distribution contract we expect that our 2013 revenue will decline by approximately 7%.
However our margin will continue to expand.
Systemwide we anticipate continued growth in overall prescriptions as pharmaceutical therapy remains the most cost-effective component of our health system.
We do see generic utilization approaching 80%.
And while the number and value of generic launches is likely to be lower in fiscal year 2013 than it was in fiscal year 2012 and therefore the uplift from generics less pronounced we do see our generic business continuing to grow driven by overall utilization improved customer and product mix and program strength.
Specialty pharmaceuticals will continue to be a valuable part of providers' set of treatment options and a growth driver for the industry and for Cardinal Health.
We expect to continue our solid top line growth in this area.
And while our Specialty Solutions bottom line growth will be slowed somewhat in fiscal 2013 by the business loss we mentioned last quarter the data supporting our momentum is unambiguous.
We expect our Medical segment profit to grow at a double-digit rate in fiscal year 2013.
We have made the major infrastructure investments and we have the talent and the portfolio to create value for our provider customers and our medical device partners.
We no longer expect to see commodity costs as a headwind for the year.
We expect to reap some of the benefits from our Medical Business Transformation to improve margins and lower inventories as we resolve some of the short-term disruptions associated with the installation and the corresponding change management processes.
We've also grown out our Medical segment clinical capabilities critical for the implementation of our preferred product strategies.
As we put all the pieces together for fiscal 2013 and with new clarity on the Express Scripts decision we are providing a fiscal non-GAAP EPS guidance range of $3.35 to $3.50.
We enter 2013 with a strong position with a scale and reach to help shape our market with deep health care experience and insight and with a commitment to long-term shareholder value creation.
Before I turn the call over to Jeff it would seem strange to provide a year-end recap without making just a few comments about the Supreme Court's landmark ruling on the Affordable Care Act.
We have operated under the assumption that all or part of the Affordable Care Act will be upheld but also with a strong belief that even had it not been that health care will go through and is already going through some significant changes.
The realities of demographics and our nation's economic situation demand it.
More Americans need to come into the system through the front door so to speak not being dependent on emergency rooms as primary care.
And we know that our system needs to be more highly coordinated and efficient.
It needs to be safer and will need to incentivize the right outcomes rather than activity.
And consumers will play a greater role in their own wellness and their own health care consumption.
And this has implications for Cardinal Health.
We will continue to focus on productivity to efficiently support the additional patients in the system and deal with the corresponding pressures to reduce health care costs.
We'll use our scale our broad reach across the system and our portfolio of services and products to help bring coordination and efficiency.
We will continue to innovate around new ways we can help all of our partners both upstream and downstream to provide high-quality care in the most cost-effective way.
As we look forward these are the things around which we will mobilize.
And finally I would also like to thank all of our employees for their contributions this year.
Your dedication to our customers is what will continue to drive Cardinal Health's success.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff to provide more details on the quarter the full year and on guidance for fiscal 2013.
Jeff? Thanks George.
Good morning everyone.
It's great to be reporting a strong fourth quarter and a conclusion to a very successful fiscal year.
Let me begin by highlighting key financial trends and drivers of our fourth quarter and full year performance.
Then I'll provide additional detail on our fiscal '13 guidance including some of our key expectations and underlying assumptions.
Starting on Slide 5.
During the quarter our non-GAAP EPS growth was driven by 13% non-GAAP operating earnings growth lower share count and a more favorable tax rate versus 2011.
Interest and other expense came in $5 million unfavorable compared to last year largely driven by changes in the value of our deferred compensation plan.
Our non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 36% which is lower than the prior year quarter but largely consistent with our 2012 third quarter and our expectations.
The year-over-year variability was driven by a slightly lower state tax rate and net favorable discrete items versus last year.
The 349 million diluted average shares outstanding during the fourth quarter compares to 355 million in the prior year's quarter.
The fiscal '12 share count reflects $100 million of share buybacks in Q4 and brings our share repurchase to a total of $450 million for the year.
I should also note that thus far in fiscal '13 we purchased another $100 million of shares bringing the authorization remaining under our existing board approval to $200 million.
Before shifting to a discussion of segment results let me comment on a few items from our consolidated cash flows and the balance sheet.
We ended Q4 with approximately $2.3 billion in cash of which about $380 million is held overseas.
This cash balance does not include our investments in health and maturity fixed income securities which totaled approximately $70 million at quarter end.
For fiscal 2012 our operating cash flow figure was approximately $1.2 billion.
Cash flow in the fourth quarter was dampened somewhat by a tax deposit of $100 million we made with the IRS during the period.
Our working capital days were higher at quarter end versus the prior year due mostly to inventory increases related to onboarding a new pharmaceutical customer as well as a temporary increase in receivables related to our Medical Business Transformation implementation.
Now let's move to segment performance starting with Pharma.
I'll be referring to Slides 6 and 7.
Revenue in the Pharma segment decreased 0.5% to $24.3 billion for Q4 due to the continued brand-to-generic conversion.
This decrease was anticipated and was partially offset by increased revenue from new customers.
We again experienced strong growth in our generic programs up 23% and our Specialty Solutions business continues to add new distribution customers growing revenue this quarter 79%.
Pharma segment profit increased by approximately 15% to $354 million in the quarter driven by the overall strong performance under our generic programs and the benefits of expanded business with new and existing customers including strong contributions from retail independents.
We also benefit from performance under our branded agreements.
Margin rate increased by 20 basis points compared to the prior year's Q4 with the rate increasing in each of our pharma distribution classes of trade.
We also benefited from a continued mix shift as our non-bulk customer percentage of sales reached 61% in Q4 versus 57% in Q4 of 2011.
Generic deflation in the quarter was not as steep as we anticipated due to material inflation on a few generic products.
As we discussed on previous calls our nuclear business has continued to be challenged due to the softness in the low energy space or SPECT legacy business.
During the past several months we have taken steps to realign our business model to what we believe is the new normal demand curve while at the same time investing in the growing PET side of the business.
Overall a very strong quarter once again for the Pharma segment.
Now turning to Medical.
For the quarter Medical segment revenue increased by 5.2% to $2.4 billion.
Let me highlight a few drivers of this result.
On our Q1 call I discussed the reassignment we made in the way we report results for our international commercial operations.
In the fourth quarter this change contributed 2.3 percentage points to the Medical segment revenue growth rate.
As we have now lapped this transition this would be the last time I quantify its impact on medical revenue growth.
Our Futuremed acquisition which closed in Q3 contributed 2.1 percentage points to the segment revenue growth rate in the quarter.
Our inventory channel another strategic growth area posted 8% revenue growth for the quarter.
And we are very pleased with the Medical segment return to profitable growth of approximately 2% for the quarter versus prior year.
We believe we've turned the corner in Medical and are well positioned for strong growth in fiscal '13.
We continue to see the positive margin benefit of increasing sales of our preferred products.
Consistent with the forecast we provided on last quarter's call we saw approximately $8 million of 	incremental depreciation expense associated with the Medical Business Transformation.
Commodity prices negatively affected our current period cost of products sold by $6 million versus Q4 of last year in line with our expectations and significantly lower than the previous 3 quarters of this fiscal year.
I'll provide comments regarding our forward-looking commodity assumptions later when I discuss FY '13 guidance.
Foreign exchange was an additional negative $3 million impact for the quarter.
On a different note Cardinal Health China once again posted double-digit revenue growth and we continue to see outstanding growth from our local direct distribution business which grew its revenue by more than 50% during the quarter.
As of the end of Q4 we've expanded to 11 distribution center sites in China.
In this regard I wanted to highlight one regional acquisition among several we made in fiscal '12 and one which significantly enhanced our geographic reach.
The acquisition of Da Sheng Group which closed recently expands our direct channel platform in the Ningbo market which is the 11th largest city in China with a population of almost 8 million.
This is exactly the type of investment which allows us to build on our core platform expand our local direct distribution business and will help to accelerate our growth long term.
On Slide 8 you'll see our consolidated GAAP results for the quarter which includes items that had a negative $0.05 per share net after-tax impact primarily related to the exclusion of $0.03 of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets from our non-GAAP results.
In the same quarter last year GAAP results were $0.02 lower than non-GAAP results again driven by acquisition-related costs.
I do want to call out one item we recorded in Q4 related to our Specialty business.
Based on discussions with the founders and previous owners of P4 Healthcare we negotiated a final earn-out payment reducing the remaining amount of payable to $3.5 million and recognizing the $19 million reduction from our previous balance of income.
This amount is part of the acquisition-related cost line and excluded from our non-GAAP results.
Now I'll make a few comments about 2012 in total starting with Slide 9.
For the full year non-GAAP EPS and it was at $3.21 an increase of 15% year-on-year and essentially at the upper end of our most recent guidance range.
Operating earnings of $1.9 billion increased 13% versus fiscal '11.
In particular I am very pleased with the strong progress on our goal to expand margins with both gross margin rate and non-GAAP operating margin rate increasing versus last year up 17 basis points and 13 basis points respectively.
I echo George's comments of our achievements this past year and thank our employees for their contributions.
We had a strong financial finish to the year marked by significant progress against our strategic initiatives.
And our results enabled us to return $750 million of cash to shareholders in 2012 through both our differentiated dividend policy and share buybacks.
Our performance in 2012 provides a solid foundation from which to navigate 2013.
So turning to Slide 12.
Our outlook for non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations in fiscal 2013 is $3.35 to $3.50 per share.
This range reflects the expiration of the Express Scripts contract at the end of September.
It also includes the potential range of expectations for external factors such as generic launches branded inflation generic deflation commodity prices and the med device tax scheduled to begin in January.
Revenues are projected to be down approximately 7% again reflecting the Express Scripts contract expiration and the impact of brand-to-generic conversions within pharma.
Regarding utilization we are taking a reasonably conservative view of any potential variation in the coming year particularly as it relates to the markets our Medical segment serves and with respect to nuclear MPI procedures impacting our SPECT volumes.
Slide 13 outlines some of our key corporate expectations for the year.
We anticipate our overall tax rate to be between 36.5% and 37.5% comparable to the 2012 rate although tax rates will fluctuate quarterly.
But our diluted weighted average shares outstanding are assumed at approximately 347 million shares in fiscal '13.
Again we expect the benefit from share repurchases to be partially offset by share issuances and the impact of share price on the dilution calculation and exercising of options.
We estimate interest and other to net between negative $105 million and $115 million.
We will continue to invest appropriate resources in our identified strategic initiatives continuing the momentum we gained in fiscal '12.
We expect capital expenditures in the $210 million to $225 million range but we continue to focus on IT investments.
As of the end of June 30 2012 our estimate for future acquisition-related intangible amortization expense is approximately $77 million.
This only incorporates deals closed before year-end and so will change over time.
Given the variability of our operating cash flows we generally don't provide any type of guidance in this area.
However I will point out that all else being equal our cash flows will be moderated next year by 2 onetime items which together total over $500 million.
The first relates to some large tax payments expected when we ultimately resolve past audits with the IRS which is our expectation for the coming year.
The second relates to the negative working capital impact that results from the nonrenewal of the Express Scripts contract.
Now I'll spend a few minutes going through some of the segment-specific assumptions starting with Pharma on Slide 14.
Clearly Pharma segment sales will be down for the reasons I cited earlier when I spoke about consolidated revenue trends with a corresponding impact on our branded margin dollars.
Our expectation for brand inflation is that the rate will be similar to FY '12.
We continue to forecast year-over-year growth from our generic programs despite the benefit from [indiscernible] launches being substantially less than fiscal 2012 and the expectation for steeper generic deflation in 2013 driven by certain large products which will come off exclusivity -- which have come off exclusivity in fiscal 2012.
We expect to benefit from growth in both our China and Specialty businesses.
Turning to Slide 15 in the Medical segment.
We expect mid-single digit revenue growth and double-digit profit growth in fiscal '13 reflecting the benefits from our recent investments and the momentum we've gained.
Preferred products will again be an important contributor to our profit growth and continue to grow in significance in our portfolio.
The medical device tax associated with the Affordable Care Act has an estimated impact on the second half of the year in the range of $13 million to $23 million.
Our guidance includes the assumption of a neutral to slight benefit related to commodities and foreign exchange on a year-over-year basis.
As we've discussed previously we use the chemical data index and related forward curves as the basis for our commodity price forecast.
On a simplistic basics -- basis our guidance effectively assumes oil prices per barrel in the 90s for oil-related commodities.
Just a final word on FY '13 guidance.
While we do not provide detailed guidance for the quarters I did want to mention that we expect the first quarter of fiscal 2013 to be generally in line with our full year growth rate range.
So in closing let me reiterate that I am very pleased with our overall performance for the quarter and the year.
2012 was a period of strong operational execution and financial results.
I am confident that we will continue to execute on our priorities and drive performance throughout fiscal 2013.
With that let me turn it over to our operator to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Glen Santangelo of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask 2 quick questions George regarding generics.
Based on some comments you made you said that you saw generic deflation that was not as steep as you had anticipated.
I was wondering if you could maybe quantify that a little bit in terms of what you're seeing.
And then secondly you kind of said that you expected generic uplift to be less pronounced in fiscal '13.
I think everyone's kind of aware that based on the timing of the patent expiration schedule.
But as we think about that within the context of your fiscal '13 guidance could you give us a little bit of a sense for how big that headwind is year-over-year? Glen thank for the question.
I'll take the first and then maybe Jeff will chime in.
So there are a couple of issues that you talked about.
One is the general direction of pricing on generics and what we've experienced.
Again largely what has been happening is a lot of movement driven by the exclusivities coming off some of the major drugs.
And so that is something that I know you all expect to see and see regularly.
Generally speaking what we've been seeing has been interesting that a few of those products deflated at a slightly slower rate than we had modeled.
As I've mentioned before we have a very large portfolio of generics so we've got close to 4 000 products in there.
Many of the products that are sort of in their mid-maturity are behaving much as we've typically seen them.
Some of the older products particularly have been inflating a bit.
And then what we've seen is variability on these products that are losing their exclusivity.
And so the general direction of that has been slightly favorable to our forecasting.
The second one which is again I think probably about quantifying it and there's only so much that we're comfortable providing as it relates to actual numbers in this.
I don't know if you want to add anything Jeff.
Well it wasn't actually deflationary.
I'd say it was slightly better in Q4 than we -- what we saw in Q3.
And again that was in part driven by some unique inflation we had on a couple of products.
So overall I would describe deflation as flattish in Q4.
And regarding the impact of generic launches I don't want to get into a specific number there.
I will say it's a fairly significant dropoff from FY '12 that we're expecting which has been our assumption all along.
And keep in mind that that requires a fair amount of estimation and probilization [ph] of expected launches.
But based on everything we see at this point I would describe it as a fairly significant dropoff in value.
But be it from the new launches.
Yes Glen.
Our next question comes from John Kreger of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us an update on the broad utilization pattern that you're seeing across your portfolio? Have you changed this in the quarter versus maybe March quarter or as the quarter played out? Yes John.
It's just -- it's a very very choppy set of data when you -- again we do probably what you do in terms of looking at external data.
And we've got a number of sources.
Generally speaking I would say Q4 looked slightly improved on overall utilization trends versus Q3.
But I would still say if you look at it on sort of a broader basis it's still pretty soft and it tends to be very choppy by month.
So I would still say we're operating in a reasonably soft utilization market.
Research Division</strong> And should we assume that pattern is roughly unchanged as fiscal '13 plays out in your budget? Yes.
As I said in my comments John we're not expecting a significant variation in the pattern of utilization heading into next year based on what we've seen this year.
And just to get a little bit more specific on the trends by area -- and again we're seeing a lot of the same data you are so I'm not sure this is necessarily new news.
But for office-based physician trends it did appear based on external data that there was some pickup in our Q4 but keep in mind that that data is quite choppy.
But for the 3 months in Q4 we saw growth in each of those quarters.
I would say with respect to surgical volume it kind of depends on whether you're looking at inpatient or outpatient.
Outpatient appeared to have a fair amount of increase year-on-year.
And the data that we have for Q4 I would say for inpatients it was down year-on-year for the quarter.
And then with respect to prescription volume I'd say overall script trends was pretty flat.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
One follow-up question.
I realize it's early but what is your initial thinking as the ACA bill is implemented? What sort of growth benefit would you expect from that? Boy that's a tough one to answer John.
I think over the long term we do expect additional patients coming to the system.
But also I think as you all know some of those patients find their way into the system as I say sort of through the back door.
And so modeling the actual increase from this is extremely difficult.
So I would say again over the long term will see some benefit very hard to quantify for you right now.
On a very short term -- again that's not something we're modeling in for the very short term.
Our next question comes from Ricky Goldwasser of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions.
But George if you can provide us with some of your perspective on pricing in pharma in the industry.
And has it changed with what you've seen historically? Thanks Ricky.
Yes this is always a difficult one to answer partly in that we operate in multiple markets.
And I've sort of said this before and tried to emphasize that we operate across our markets in very competitive markets and that's true today.
I would have a very difficult time discerning a particular pattern or giving a generalized characterization of pricing.
It tends to be very business-line-specific customer-specific sometimes even region-specific.
So it is -- I'm not sure I could give you Ricky a discernible trend break right now other than to say that we generally operate in a competitive environment and I don't see that differently right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Jeff just to confirm the guidance for the first quarter the growth rates you provided for the EPS was $0.76 to $0.78.
So how should we think about the headwinds and tailwinds in the September quarter? And then when you think about the rest of the year should we think about fiscal year '13 as being a year where growth is fairly fluid quarter-to-quarter? Thanks Ricky.
This is Jeff.
Let me answer your second question first.
I don't want to give specific quarterly guidance.
But as I said for the first quarter and I'd probably extend that to the first half of the year we generally see the growth rate for those quarters to be consistent with the growth rate range that we gave for the full year so that's probably as far as I'll go in terms of quarterly guidance.
In terms of headwinds and tailwinds I'd say for the most part that headwinds and tailwinds for Q1 are similar to what we see for the full year with one notable exception being the fact that our Safeway contract extends through September 30 so we'll begin seeing the impact of that last volume only in Q2 and beyond -- I'm sorry our Express Scripts not Safeway.
Express Scripts contract expires September 30 and so we'll begin seeing the impact of that last volume starting in Q2 and beyond.
But more broadly the headwinds both for Q1 and the full year I would say -- from a macroeconomic trend standpoint as I've said we're being relatively conservative in our assumptions on utilization particularly with respect to medical procedures and nuclear MPI volumes.
And so I'd say probably best case that's sort of neutral year-on-year.
Also as we said less anticipated generic launch benefit year-on-year and that would be true for Q1 as well.
We are expecting steeper generic deflation for the year than we saw this year given the products that have come off exclusivity.
We've got the loss of some branded by margin just given the fact that we've had a very large amount of branded products go generic this year.
And obviously that impact will be felt throughout next year just given the less brand volume that we have.
We've got the normal pricing erosion that we would typically see in any period.
I would say in terms of tailwinds we are in the process of beginning to realize the benefits from our MBT implementation within medical and that will ramp up over the course of the year.
But we're driving to start achieving those benefits as early as Q1.
And I'd say generally we're expecting better medical performance both given the lack of headwinds in commodities and FX but just generally delivering on the investments that we've made over the past year or 2.
We've got a couple of new customers Department of Defense in Medical and Safeway in pharma that I would describe as tailwinds.
We're going to continue to be very focused on operational efficiencies both in Q1 and the full year.
And I would say we expect some growth in Specialty in China as well as we continue to invest and realize benefits of those investments in Q1 and the full year.
There's one other headwind I forgot to mention that is not going to happen in Q1 but will occur in the second half of the year and that is the medical device tax that I referred to earlier of somewhere between $13 million and $23 million for the second half of the year.
And again as I've said before the reason we have a fairly broad range there is there's still some uncertainty regarding exactly how the medical device tax will be applied to certain of our products and we're still sorting that out with the regulators.
I hope that helps.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But at the high end you kind of assume worst-case scenario for the device tax.
Is that fair? Yes that would be the worst case half-year impact.
Our next question comes from Lisa Gill of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So just a couple of questions on the Medical segment.
George or Jeff you talked about your expectations around mid-single digit growth? Are you taking market share number one? And number two can you talk about the different segments where you're taking -- if you are taking market share where you're taking it from? And on the ambulatory care side is that more of the IDNs buying physician practices and picking up that business? Or are you actually winning business out of the marketplace and taking market share? Lisa I'll start and then Jeff will -- of course feel free to chime in here.
It's really sort of -- again recognize we have a broad line set of lines that are covered in our medical business.
And so generally speaking we've been doing well in our medical surgical business.
I wouldn't say dramatic swings in share.
Jeff mentioned DOD.
We've had some good progress and I think some good progress with key IDNs who are performing very well in the market and that's been beneficial to us.
I think we've had solid growth in ambulatory.
I think particularly surgery centers has been an area as you know as care has been shifting to some extent from the acute settings into more ambulatory treatment centers.
We have been well positioned to serve those surgery centers and I think we've picked up some share there.
But they've also grown their businesses there.
And the physician's office area we've probably grown a little bit past market.
Some of this again it has to do with what you described which is some of the practices moving into the IDN-affiliated networks.
And some of it just again increased attention on our part systems that are more finely tuned towards the needs of a smaller practice.
And so again the growth has been sort of broadly distributed I would say.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just secondly on the commodity aspect.
And I guess maybe this is a question for you Jeff.
I'm just surprised that there's not more of a tailwind in 2013 just given how big the headwind was in 2012.
Is there anything else that goes into that calculation? I mean oil in the 90s is kind of fairly comparable with what it was in '12? But aren't we seeing some of the other commodities looking better as we move into '13? Yes we've seen latex and cotton definitely improve.
But I would say from an oil-based derivative perspective -- and keep in mind oil-based derivatives make up well more than 50% of our commodity exposure.
I would say in that regard we're seeing fairly similar rates.
Throughout FY '11 probably the average price of oil we experienced was in the high 90s to low 100s.
We're modeling a rate in the 90s so there's a little bit of pickup there.
But we don't want to get too aggressive with our assumptions just given the volatility that we're seeing in oil prices.
Obviously if oil stays in the -- or if it goes to the low 80s which is what we saw a couple of weeks ago that would provide some additional benefit but we don't want to count on that yet again just given the volatility.
Our next question comes from Charles Rhyee from Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> I've got a question.
Jeff if I heard you correctly you guys bought $100 million of shares back in the fourth quarter and another $100 million now in the first quarter.
Can you talk about what you plan for share repurchase versus dividends this year? Because you [indiscernible] have a higher dividend yield than your competitors sort of [indiscernible].
But that is the real value with share repurchase.
I mean any way to think about that in terms of change in the cap next year on dividends if that's the thinking? Charles you're breaking up a little bit but I think I got most of the gist of your question.
Just to clarify the amount we purchased in Q4 was $150 million and the amount that we purchased thus far this year was an additional $100 million.
Regarding our plans for the year I never like getting too specific about -- for our plans in this regard I think for somewhat obvious reasons.
But I will say what our assumption is.
Our assumption is basically -- in the 347 million average diluted shares outstanding I referenced in my prepared remarks that basically assumes that we're done repo for the year quite honestly.
Now that doesn't mean that we may not do more but for guidance purposes that is the assumption we've made.
So the $250 million we bought over the last 2 months is effectively what's reflected in the guidance.
Over time we will have opportunities to consider repo again in the entire portfolio of things we may invest in.
But also keep in mind that our cash flow will be a little bit lower next year for the reasons that I've stated.
So it'll be somewhat of an abnormal year in FY '13 from an operating cash flow standpoint because of the impact of the tax payments and the ESI nonrenewal that I referenced in my remarks.
Regarding the dividend I really can't comment on that.
Ultimately that's up to our board to decide our dividend policy going forward and that's probably all I can say on that.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I could follow up then.
You guys have roughly $2 billion in cash on the domestic side that's zero [indiscernible] speaking.
But then you're estimating here a higher interest expense for the next year.
I couldn't really hear your -- I might have missed it.
What are you expecting to drive the interest expense up? Well keep in mind that we issued $500 million of debt a few months ago which was intended to -- partially to prefund several hundred million dollars of debt that comes due at the end of FY '13.
So that's one of the major drivers of the higher interest expense.
We're just simply carrying more debt this year than we did in FY '12.
We'll also have slightly higher debt overseas as well related to our Chinese operation as well.
So those are the 2 primary drivers of the higher interest expense year-on-year.
Our next question comes from George Hill of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to follow up on Ricky's question on pricing and I'll get a little more specific in the large national accounts.
Obviously ESI got great pricing on their renewal which you guys chose not to match.
How should we think about as we look forward with the other national accounts that you guys service? Is that level of pricing kind of going to be the prevalent rate that we should think about at which business gets done? Or was there anything special about that contract process? George thanks for the question.
Again trying to compare some of these large accounts one to the other is quite difficult.
They have very unique strategies very unique business models and very unique needs in terms of servicing.
So sort of applying some set of conditions across them would be really difficult.
I think it's very difficult to try to give you some kind of forward-looking observation about what's going to happen in particular with renewals.
I would just say this.
We were extremely efficient at the servicing of these large accounts.
We've built our systems around them.
We're flexible.
We're attuned to the needs of their complexity.
We provide a very broad range of service components: connectivity management of significant amounts of working capital.
So I think you have to put that into the equation and then you have to put into the equation the business mix that each of those accounts manages.
And in reference to the Express Scripts business that was a -- largely a bulk -- bulks business for us and it played out as it did.
But as it relates to our other large customers they have very distinct needs and we're very very happy to be serving them.
And we hope to continue to do that and bring the services the tools and the capital to bear to make sure we do that well.
Research Division</strong> Okay great color.
And then maybe Jeff just a quick follow-up on the tax rate guidance.
The high end of the tax range -- the high end of the tax rate guidance range would be above [indiscernible] this year.
Anything specific that would tend to drive the range higher? One of the big drivers of our range is our foreign mix and it's that combination of earnings overseas both related to products that we manufacture and source overseas as well as products that we sell commercially in places like Canada and China et cetera.
So that's one significant driver.
And then as always there's discrete items that come up over the course of the year as you fine-tune reserves on tax liabilities et cetera and/or reach resolution with the IRS or other taxing agencies on outstanding audits or appeals.
So it's really just meant just to cover those 2 ranges in variability which are fairly common in any given year.
But there's nothing really unusual beyond that that I would point to.
George in answer to your prior question just a thing I'd like to mention regarding differences in accounts.
As George said Express Scripts being an mail-order account is virtually 100% bulk whereas most of the rest of our large customers are a combination of both bulk business as well as direct store delivery business.
So again you have to look at each of those based on the profile of the business that we serve.
The other thing I'd say -- and this is often not very visible to all of you but it's obviously very important as we price accounts and that depends on the terms and the capital that either gets generated by the business or that we have to deploy into the business.
And obviously those terms can have a pretty significant impact on the pricing that we give so that's -- obviously there's value to that capital in both directions.
Our next question comes from Tom Gallucci of Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I think in that last question we were sort of talking around some of your bigger customers.
We usually ask a lot about Walgreens and CVS.
Can you just remind us are they up for renewal next summer? And is there anything in your fiscal '13 guidance that would account for any -- assumptions for any changes there? So the -- our Walgreen contract expires at the end of August of next summer.
Our contract with CVS Caremark expires at the end of June just about a year from now.
Research Division</strong> I'm trying to find out will there be any assumptions in your fiscal '13 guidance for any changes there? I know you don't want to get into the details but is that really more viewed as a '14 event fiscal '14? Or what's the relation to this year's guidance? I think I wouldn't want to get into specifics there just due to the confidential nature of those agreements.
But in any given year we make certain assumptions regarding when we're going to renew and the impact et cetera so this would be no different in that regard.
But again I wouldn't want to get into specifics.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay fair enough.
And then George in your prepared remarks I know you had highlighted the pressure relief I think over the last few weeks related to the product offering on the med-surg side.
Could you give us a little bit more background on that? I thought it was going to be just one routine resolution [ph].
Yes so just very generally as you know we've been investing here and building out on our own capabilities particularly clinical capabilities to support preferred product offerings.
This is a little bit -- in some ways it is characteristic of the generic industry but in other ways it's quite distinct in that these are products that really need to be sold to clinicians who don't necessarily have a rating system such as maybe ratings happens in the drug setting.
So you have to have a clinical capability to be able to support your offering of preferred products.
We have seen the area of orthopedics as an interesting area a place where we have some skills.
We have been able to track some skills where we could build a partnership with a player who could support the technical needs of delivering and supporting that market.
So we're really excited about this.
It's early days but we have a lot of enthusiasm for and we're getting some high level of interest from business partners downstream on the provider side.
Our next question comes from Robert Willoughby of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Jeff and George can you remind us why the CapEx numbers falls as much as it does in '13? Was there something unusual in '12? And just as it relates to the deal spending in the coming year just the normal dinks and dunks or is there some appetite for larger deals? Let me comment on the first one.
The biggest reason for the falloff in CapEx Bob is simply because the Medical Business Transformation program ended.
Most of the spend ended actually in Q3 of FY '12 so the dropoff of that program is by far the biggest contributor to the lower CapEx next year.
So we -- our thinking about acquisitions is pretty much as it has been which is we are trying to continue to make sure that we're positioned in the best way to drive long-term sustainable value to the strategic areas that have been particular of interest to us.
We've made some investments in those areas.
There's nothing particularly to highlight other than to say to the extent that we can find or do find the opportunity to drive shareholder value through a move we are ready to do that.
But nothing specific to call out at this stage.
Our next question comes from Ross Muken of ICI (sic) [ISI] Group.
Research Division</strong> So on the China business it seems like you've had some pretty good growth momentum there.
Obviously the market remains pretty healthy.
You've done some interesting acquisitions.
I think you highlighted them on the call.
As you look forward do you think the sort of biggest incremental opportunities is sort of moving into some of the Tier 2 or other Tier 1 space that you don't currently service? Or is it also sort of expanding the breadth of products distributed beyond the medical side maybe lab and sort of running a broader product set through the distribution network that you've built? Yes.
Why don't you start Jeff? The answer is both.
And I think they are sort of mutually dependent too quite honestly in that we need to continue to build out our geographic presence so we can cover more of the country not only allowing us to cover more hospitals and pharmacies but also giving a greater coverage that in turn our manufacturing partners can utilize to push product through.
So that's sort of the basic part of the strategy is to build our geographic presence.
And as I've said before our goal is to get to close to 25 sort of focus areas.
We currently have 11 DC sites so we're halfway there.
We'll continue to focus on that both through organic and inorganic means.
However at the same time and really in parallel we need to expand our portfolio in terms of products that we push through that channel.
And I think we have an opportunity to do that in ways that are perhaps very different from the U.S.
as we've said before because it's a very different market and the needs of our manufacturing partners are very different.
And how we get to market may vary a little bit too in terms of for example providing specialty pharmaceuticals all the way directly to the patient which we've done through several specialty pharmacies that we've set up now in 2 different cities.
So I would say it's both.
And like I said they sort of depend on each other because we need the channel in order to provide enough coverage to in turn expand our portfolio of products and drive that through to the market.
Research Division</strong> And maybe on the specialty business.
I know you quoted growth on kind of [indiscernible] so I know it's off of a small base.
Do you feel like with the deal you announced -- the win you announced in the quarter and some of the momentum you've seen there in terms leverages building a bigger platform in the context of 1 or 2 or 3 more key wins.
I know there's a lot more to look at presumably a large win to go.
But do you feel like you've sort of gotten where you really compete with the other 2 larger players in that market and gain some of their share? Yes yes this is George.
You sort of hit it which is you have to establish a certain amount of scale presence which brings additional credibility which allows us to reinvest.
It's sort of -- virtually a cycle.
And so we are beginning to see that momentum.
We had a really great presence out of Chicago at the Cancer Association meeting the Oncology Association meeting.
We're beginning I think to establish ourselves as not only capable of doing everything in this space but innovating in this space.
And yes I feel very encouraged about our growth.
As you said we're still smaller in the -- at a different stage.
But I like where we are and we are gaining momentum.
And I think others are seeing that and seeing what we're doing and that helps us as we approach each customer.
So I feel encouraged by it.
Our next question comes from Robert Jones of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk about the Express loss just wanted to make sure we're thinking about that correctly.
Is the EPS impact for next year really as simple as taking a bulk margin against the $7 billion of sales? Or is there some lost P&amp;L leverage that we should expect from losing a customer of that size? Any more quantification around the impact on fiscal '13 would be helpful.
Bob given the confidential nature of any of those discussions I can't get into the specific rate that we had previously for Express Scripts.
But I do think taking the last sales volume and applying our bulk rate which for the year by the way ended up at 38 basis points for the full year FY '12 I think that's a reasonable proxy.
Now inherent in that rate is some allocated fixed cost that we would need to cover.
But I would say compared to most of our business the fixed costs associated with bulk business are relatively light because we generally allocate fixed cost based on activity and activity associated with mail order is clearly much less than you'd see with the other classes of trade.
So bottom line I think applying the general margin rate is probably a good proxy.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the MedTrend you guys laid out a lot of the assumptions here.
And I know previously on the Medical Transformation you guys said that the financial benefits would outweigh the cost in '13.
I might have missed this earlier in the call but I was just wondering what the view is today as we look to fiscal '13.
And any more quantification around that financial benefit would be helpful.
So what I've said previously still stands that we expect depreciation of about $35 million in FY '12 and we expect the benefits to net be accretive to that number.
And as George alluded to they both come in the areas of margin which would be both gross margin improvement as well as SG&amp;A reduction.
And then separate from that we would expect to see some inventory reductions as well which would help our operating cash flow.
Our next question comes from Steven Valiquette of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones for me.
First for FY '13 just given the earlier discussion on direct store delivery versus bulk should we assume that the Safeway contract position is likely more profitable for Cardinal than the Express Scripts subtraction? Or is that not the right assumption? And then the second one just quickly.
If I missed this I apologize.
You guys announced this Dik Drug acquisition.
Is that material enough in size to move the needle on EPS accretion for FY '13? Or should we assume it's not that material and so therefore kind of more neutral to EPS? Steve as you can imagine we really can't answer the first question.
Sorry about that.
But it really -- specific to individual customer contracts is a place where we can't go on these calls.
But Jeff do you want to comment on the second part on the Dik Drug? Yes I would say it's relatively immaterial for next year.
Net-net it's accretive but by a very small amount.
So I'd say for modeling purposes it's relatively insignificant.
Research Division</strong> Does it get more accretive over time or just assume overall it's not big enough to really move the needle? I would say as a general statement that it's not big enough to move the needle.
But I would expect by the second year for it to be $0.01 or $0.02 accretive.
Our next question comes from David Larsen of Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have already been asked and answered.
But for 2014 assuming that 35 million more people do actually get health insurance how are you guys thinking about now how that may impact your business? We -- and roughly a good portion of those end up being in your exchange-based plans or Medicaid plans.
Would that potentially result in lower reimbursement for you guys and that -- and possible higher volumes? Can you sort of talk about that at all? Yes David I can only give you a sort of generalized statement on this.
But again we would assume that in 2014 there will be additional people coming into the system.
As I've said the overall health care system is going to go through this dynamic one which is more people coming into the system both through legislative change and demographics and then the other is how are we going to as a society pay for all of this? And so we just assume that we're going to have to continuously improve our productivity focusing on our own productivity but also productivity for our customers so that we can enable them to compete in that landscape.
So I think it's reasonable to assume that that's a dynamic we'll be experiencing generally as a system and then just regarding the whole.
Our next question comes from Larry Marsh of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> George and Jeff two quick ones.
First on nuclear I know last year you had a tough low energy environment around utilization but this fall some exciting potential developments on the clinical trials and tests.
You may have already addressed this but how are you thinking about the outlook for nuclear this year in your guidance? I'm going to say generally very much as it has been in the past few months which is soft demand utilization on the SPECT on the low energy side.
We're growing at a nice clip on PET although it's much smaller.
We do believe that again that the evolution of the diagnostic agents particularly right now in neuroscience are important.
I think part of the long-term drivers here will be what's happening on the therapeutic side.
So the combination of the therapeutic and the diagnostic is sort of critically linked.
And so we'll be watching carefully not just to see what's happening on the diagnostic side but what's happening on the therapeutic side.
Any breakthroughs there would be very very helpful.
Research Division</strong> Great okay.
A lot of areas could be some variability.
And the second quick follow-up is on cash flow.
I just want to make sure I got this right.
I normally think of you guys generating about 75% of EBITDA and cash flow from operations.
This fiscal year fiscal '12 was a bit below with the fourth quarter.
Jeff you had said expect cash flow to be impacted this year by I believe $500 million and then some negative working capital implications with Express.
Are you suggesting that's going to be a deflection off of the $1.2 billion you generated this year or just off a normalized trend? And would there be any reason to think about cash flow trends not being -- being different from that sort of typical 75% of EBITDA as you kind of go forward? Yes first of all I would say this year's cash flow of $1.2 billion was a little bit light because of the $100 million tax deposit we made with the IRS in Q4.
So on a more normal run-rate basis if you can call it that I would have expected closer to $1.3 billion.
I'd say next year that's $500 million off of a normalized run rate.
Again Larry I just want to make sure I thought you said $500 million plus the Express and I don't think that's...
The $500 million is a combination of both the expected tax payments we have to make next year unique tax payments we have to make next year as well as the impact of unwinding the Express Scripts business.
Research Division</strong> Okay I got it.
And that's off of normalized rates.
So it won't be a dramatic difference versus cash flow from this year it sounds like? No I've got to tell you it's not [indiscernible].
If you assume this year is somewhat normal other than what the $100 million it'd be $500 million lower.
Research Division</strong> Off of that? Yes.
Our final question comes from Eric Coldwell of Robert W.
Baird.
So I think we will wrap it up.
I'd like thank all of you for joining us this morning and we look forward to the opportunity to speak with many of you in the coming days.
So thanks and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Cardinal Health Inc.
First Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Ms.
Sally Curley Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you Kate and welcome to Cardinal Health's first quarter fiscal 2013 earnings conference call.
Today we will be making forward-looking statements.
The matters addressed in the statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to the SEC filings and the forward-looking statements slide at the beginning of the presentation which can be found on the Investor page of our website for a description of risks and uncertainties.
In addition we will reference non-GAAP financial measures.
Information about these measures is included at the end of the slides.
I would also like to remind you of a few upcoming investment conferences and events in which we will be webcasting.
Notably our Annual Meeting of Shareholders at 8:00 a.m.
local time this Friday November 2 at our company headquarters here in Dublin Ohio and the Credit Suisse Healthcare Conference at 8:30 a.m.
local time on November 14 at the Arizona Biltmore Hotel in Phoenix.
The detail of these events are or will be posted in the IR section of our website at cardinalhealth.com so please make sure to visit the site often for updated information.
We look forward to seeing you at the upcoming events.
Now I'd like to turn over the call to our Chairman and CEO Mr.
George Barrett.
Thanks Sally.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on our first quarter call today.
I know that those of you on the East Coast are going through an extraordinarily difficult time and hope that your families and your homes are safe.
I'll touch on this again after I cover our performance for the quarter.
We're off to a solid start to our fiscal year 2013.
Total revenue for the quarter was $25.9 billion a decline of 3.4% from the prior year.
As you know we expected revenue to be down for the quarter and for the full year primarily due to the continued shift in dollars associated with the conversion of brand to generic drugs.
Non-GAAP operating earnings increased by 6% to $469 million.
Our non-GAAP EPS grew 11% to $0.81 up from last year's $0.73.
Our Pharmaceutical segment delivered strong profit growth of 10% on a revenue decline of 4%.
This revenue decline resulting from the generic conversions masked the positive sales growth from net customer wins and higher volume in Specialty Solutions.
The Pharma segment realized significant margin improvement due to the robust performance under our generic programs and a result of our continued focus on customer and product mix.
Medical segment revenues were up slightly versus the same period a year ago and profit declined by 6%.
The profit contribution for medical was less than we expected for the period due to the impact of lower volume with existing customers as well as the net negative year-on-year impact from our systems implementation we initiated in fiscal 2012.
I'll come back to both of these subjects in a moment when I review the segments.
First the Pharmaceutical segment.
Our Pharmaceutical distribution business continued its momentum coming out of fiscal year 2012.
From a customer and product mix standpoint we're seeing continued progress.
Our non-bulk sales were 63% of total sales in the quarter versus 57% last year which is helping to drive an overall improvement in margin.
Pharmaceutical distribution profit was also fueled by the continued strength of our generic activities.
According to IMS data total generic utilization now accounts for almost 81% of total prescriptions in the United States versus around 77% a year ago.
Clearly it is important for us to be best-in-class in generics and our progress here continues to be encouraging.
Our strong generic results reflect robust sales to our customers and strong response to new item introductions during the quarter.
We continue to record solid performance and build strong relationships with our branded and biotech partners as we support their evolving business needs.
Moving to Nuclear demand in our low-energy legacy business continues to be soft as the number of nuclear cardiac procedures remains considerably below historical norms.
With this in mind we continue to review our service model and as a result we've pursued cost reductions and other efficiencies.
In addition we've made capacity adjustments to align with current cardiac procedure demand.
Having said this our Positron Emission Tomography or PET business continues to be well positioned for the future.
We believe PET holds excellent promise and we are investing appropriately.
We recently opened 2 new PET cyclotrons in Sacramento and Portland with an additional site in Chicago expected in the coming weeks.
As expected our Specialty Solutions unit continued to deliver strong top line growth in the quarter with revenue up over 70%.
Profitability continued to be negatively affected by the loss sustained last year of some significant higher-margin consulting business.
Specialty Solutions continues to build important partnerships and market share with health care professionals and payers.
At the end of the quarter we were serving nearly 650 oncology and urology practices rapid growth as we enter our third year of the Specialty Solutions launch.
Last week we announced the Vital path integrated dispensing solution a web-based automated medication dispensing system which makes it easier for community oncology practices to improve medication safety inventory and revenue cycle management.
We are committed to helping our customers manage their practices so that they can stay focused on patients.
In the payer space we continue to increase our market presence through innovation highlighted by the launch of our PathWare clinical protocol and business transaction system.
Turning to our Medical segment revenues were up slightly as the increase from last year's successful acquisition of the Canadian Futuremed business was partially offset by one fewer sales day and lower volumes from our existing U.S.
customers.
As others have reported procedure volumes for both inpatient and outpatient procedures have been soft somewhat more than we had anticipated for the quarter.
From a profitability standpoint the quarter proved to be more challenging than we originally modeled for medical.
Clearly the volume softness was a large factor and although our preferred products did grow by 4% lower procedure volume muted the growth of preferred products which generate a higher margin for us.
I'll come back to preferred products in just a moment.
Now a few words on our medical information systems implementation or MBT as we've been referring to it.
As you know last February we went live with this very extensive transformation the systems and processes by which we service our customers manage our supply chain and generate information in our Medical segment.
At this point we had hoped to be through the transition and to be generating meaningful benefits but with any undertaking as massive as this the timeline has been difficult to predict with precision.
I can report that the system is stable and we are achieving the key functionality we sought.
I would also knowledge that the change management aspects of the transition have not progressed as rapidly as we had planned.
Operational cleanup activity consumed a fair amount of our attention throughout much of the first quarter.
This has resulted in some incremental costs and a deferral of benefit realization.
Our organization is highly focused on realizing the benefits from this major initiative.
We remain confident that a strong return will be realized for both our customers and for Cardinal Health.
Now Jeff will provide a bit more detail in his commentary.
Staying with our Medical segment our improved clinical capabilities focus on product mix and strategic partnerships fuel our preferred products offering.
Despite what has been a challenging procedural environment in the quarter we look forward to accelerated momentum here.
We believe that customers increasingly appreciate the high quality and the value we deliver through these products.
In this regard our new integrated orthopedic solutions offering launched in the fourth quarter of FY '12 is generating customer enthusiasm.
Our health system customers recognize that we offer the ability to save costs through a new business model in the trauma arena that delivers high quality but lower-priced orthopedic products along with a specialized distribution and information services platform.
Early signs tell us that customers are excited to have a new product and service choices in the very large orthopedic products space.
North of the border our Canadian business reported double-digit growth for both revenue and profit.
The integration of Futuremed our fiscal year 2012 acquisition has gone smoothly and we are realizing accelerated synergies.
Our business in China has also been going very well.
Our revenues in China were up over 30% and we achieved strong profit growth.
We will continue to execute our strategy of increasing market share by enlarging our geographic footprint through targeted acquisitions and creating new business partnerships as well as building new growth platforms such as consumer health and direct to patient.
It's been estimated that China's spending on health care could triple to $1 trillion annually by 2020 driven by an aging population and government efforts to broaden health care coverage.
We believe that we can make a meaningful contribution in this market and participate in its extraordinary growth.
In summary we're off to a solid start to the year and we're reaffirming our fiscal 2013 outlook for non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $3.35 to $3.50.
Finally with regard to the just announced decision by our Board of Directors to increase the dividend by another 16% this decision underscores our commitment to a differentiated dividend adds to the 10.5% increase realized in July and brings our anticipated annualized payout ratio to over 30% of non-GAAP EPS.
These actions reinforce Cardinal Health's commitment to returning capital to shareholders while driving the underlying growth in the business.
We will continue to pursue a balanced approach to capital deployment with the goal of creating sustainable long-term growth.
Before I turn the call over to Jeff just a few words about this extraordinary weather event and our Cardinal Health colleagues.
I know that our teams have been preparing for days but the storm hitting the East Coast is a frightening and dangerous one one which is already taking its toll on many of them.
This makes it all the more gratifying that so many are working under enormously trying circumstances to make sure that every hospital every pharmacy every clinic every physician practice has the products and services it needs to take care of patients.
To our people our customers suppliers and shareholders be careful and be safe and I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks George.
Good morning everyone.
My thoughts and best wishes also go out to everyone affected by the storm.
Today I plan to cover the drivers of our Q1 performance and key financial trends and then make a few comments on our full year outlook.
I'll also discuss our recent capital deployment actions.
You can refer to the slide presentation posted on our website as a guide to this discussion.
With our first quarter 11% non-GAAP EPS growth I believe we're off to a solid start to the year.
Our Q1 EPS growth was driven by 6% non-GAAP operating earnings growth favorable interest and other and a lower share count versus 2012.
Gross margin dollars increased 7% with a rate up 43 basis points.
Distribution selling and G&amp;A expenses also rose 7% driven by recent acquisitions which are worth about 2 percentage points of this growth as well as an increase in IT costs including our Medical Business Transformation investments in certain key strategic priorities and $10 million of higher relative deferred compensation costs year-on-year an amount that is offset in our other expense line.
Our consolidated non-GAAP operating margin rate increased 16 basis points to 1.81%.
Interest and other expense came in $9 million favorable compared to last year largely driven by the changes in the value of our deferred compensation plan that I just mentioned as well as income related to an outstanding equity investment we hold.
If you look at net interest expense only that line was about $3 million higher in Q1 of FY '13 versus last year.
Our non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 37.8% which is consistent with our prior year's quarter and slightly higher than our expectations.
During Q1 we repurchased $200 million of shares including the $100 million we mentioned in our August 2 call.
This brings our diluted average shares outstanding to 344 million for the first quarter which is 5 million favorable to the prior year's quarter.
At the end of Q1 we had $650 million remaining under our existing board approval.
Now let me comment on consolidated cash flow and the balance sheet.
Our Q1 operating cash flow was $568 million which is above last year's amount.
Looking forward and as a reminder we have previously called out 2 significant items that we expect to moderate cash flow this year including the negative working capital impact of the nonrenewal of the Express Scripts contract and some large tax payments when we ultimately resolve past IRS audits.
Our working capital days ended the quarter higher than the prior year due mostly to the impact of lending receivables related to our Medical Business Transformation and continued growth in China.
Brand-to-generic conversions impacted both our inventory and payable space however they largely offset.
Now let's move to segment performance.
I'll start with Pharma.
As we anticipated Pharma segment revenue decreased 4% to $23.5 billion for Q1 due to continued brand-to-generic conversion which George mentioned in his remarks.
This decrease was partially offset by sales to new customers and higher volume in Specialty Solutions.
Of particular note sales to non-bulk customers were up 7% for the period.
Our generic programs continued to perform well posting an increase of more than 20% versus the prior year.
Our stores generics drove much of this increase.
Brand inflation was about as we expected in the high-single digits.
In Specialty Solutions we continue to add new distribution customers growing revenue over 70% versus the last year's quarter.
Pharma segment profit increased by 10% to $400 million in the quarter driven by the overall strong performance under our generic programs within Pharmaceutical distribution.
In fact we saw growth in both our base generic business as well as a positive contribution from new item launches this quarter.
We continue to see inflation on a few generic products in Q1 which more than offset the deflation on the balance of our generics portfolio.
Segment profit margin rate increased by 21 basis points compared to the prior year's Q1 a reflection of the strength of our generics programs and our focus on margin expansion as well as the industry's brand-to-generic conversions.
As many of you are aware while this conversion is dilutive to revenue it is accretive to our margin.
We also benefited from continued mix shift as our non-bulk customer percentage of sales reached 63% in Q1.
But even with the in-customer categories margin expansion was strong.
In fact margins were up across all customer class of trade within Pharmaceutical distribution.
I was particularly pleased with Pharma's growth and margin expansion versus last year given the favorable $17 million impact included in last year's results for the resolution of certain manufacture-related disputes.
As George already said Nuclear had a challenging quarter due to volume softness in the low energy or SPECT market.
While we have seen softness in the space for a while the continued downward trend was below our expectations.
We are taking appropriate actions internally to adjust our structure and platform to reflect the new environment.
In Specialty Solutions a downturn in our high-margin pharma services business in which we disclosed the customer loss in Q3 of last year continue to impact our year-over-year earnings comparison.
All things considered our Pharma segment performed very well again this quarter.
Now turning to Medical Medical's off to a slower-than-expected start this year in terms of revenues which are up slightly at $2.4 billion.
Let me walk you through the puts and takes.
Last year's Futuremed acquisition in Canada contributed 2 percentage points to the segment revenue growth rate in the quarter.
Preferred products over 20% of our Medical segment revenue continue to be an important driver of the Medical segment sales and profit growth and a key strategic area for us.
These items were partially offset by the impact from one fewer sales day in the quarter and lower volume from existing customers.
We believe this volume softness is driven at least in part by lower-than-expected procedure volume.
One final comment that relates to both revenue and earnings.
Although we typically do not comment on specific contracts given that the Department of Defense med-surg contract is already in the public domain I will note the Department of Defense has reduced its order volume from what we were expecting a decrease which we believe is related to troop reductions.
Profitability in the Medical segment declined 6% versus a year ago due to a few factors.
The volume softness I referenced earlier had an impact on profitability as well.
The impact of the Medical Business Transformation was a headwind for the quarter worth a net of about $10 million year-on-year when you consider both the negatives and the positives this period.
We incurred $7 million of depreciation some incremental expenses to refine parts of the system and ensure customer service and have small amount of lost profitability due to orders that may have been temporary placed with backup vendors during the period.
Some of the benefit realization we're planning for also got pushed out as we work to ensure customers were getting product on a reliable basis and that the system and process changes were clearly understood.
I'm happy to report that the functionality of the system is stable and both internally and externally we are learning to use the system to its full potential.
On the positive side of the ledger as mentioned earlier we did see continued earnings growth in preferred products and double-digit earnings growth in Canada.
Commodities and foreign exchange were also of slight benefit during the quarter in line with our expectations.
Finally I will remind you that in the first quarter of FY '12 we did incur some incremental expense related to the FDA Presource matter which are not in this year's results.
All in all although Medical did not get up to the start we hoped we are focused on taking the right actions in a still sluggish environment and we remain uniquely positioned across product lines and channels.
We continue to target the double-digit Medical segment profit growth guidance for fiscal 2013 that we provided on our August 2 call.
Now I'll provide some color on Cardinal Health China which spans both segments.
We once again posted strong double-digit revenue growth and now are beginning to approach an annual run rate well above $1.5 billion.
Our local direct distribution business continues to outperform expectations growing revenue at a rate of almost 90%.
We're continuing to expand the product and service platforms including agreements with medical device manufacturers and partnerships with more suppliers and consumer health to expand the offering in retail pharmacies.
China continues to be a strong and exciting strategic growth area for us.
On Slide 6 you'll see our consolidated GAAP results for the quarter which includes items that had a negative $0.02 per share net after-tax impact.
Included in this net $0.02 per share was the exclusion of $0.05 of acquisition-related costs primarily made up of the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets which was offset by $0.04 of litigation recoveries related to legal settlements.
In the same quarter last year GAAP results were $0.05 lower than non-GAAP results primarily driven by acquisition-related costs.
Now let's talk briefly about guidance.
As George mentioned our full year non-GAAP EPS guidance range remains unchanged at $3.35 to $3.50.
We still have 3 quarters ahead of us and lots of moving pieces as we consider the rest of the year.
Within that overall context I want to point out a few changes to our fiscal 2013 assumptions.
Given the recent share repurchases I referenced earlier we are revising our full year share count projection to approximately 345 million shares from the 347 million which we guided to in August.
In addition we're updating the previously provided guidance for amortization of acquisition-related intangibles to $86 million to include a few recently closed acquisitions although keep in mind that that amount is excluded from our non-GAAP earnings.
For the Medical segment our current visibility into commodity and foreign exchange impacts is such that we now expect these items to be a net benefit to our year-on-year medical results although there are still high volatility in these [ph] input factors due to market price variability.
We are also targeting meaningful benefits from our Medical Business Transformation over the next 3 quarters.
But given our slower-than-planned start in Q1 our original goal of net accretion for the full year may be a stretch to attain.
Everything else remains unchanged.
Finally let's talk about capital deployment for a moment.
Today we announced a dividend increase of 16%.
This decision was based on careful consideration of our balance sheet capital deployment philosophy shareholder feedback and desire to continue to augment total shareholder return.
Our balanced capital deployment philosophy has remained largely consistent over the past 3 years.
Today's announcements are a reflection of this philosophy and also recognize the need to evolve with the environment and our shareholders.
For context over the past 3 years our strong earnings growth has outpaced our dividend growth.
This 16% increase when taken together with the 10.5% increase realized in July brings our quarterly payout to $0.275 per share and reassess the anticipated dividend payout on an annualized level to more than 30% of our expected non-GAAP fiscal 2013 EPS.
At the same time we are reaffirming our goal to grow the dividend at least in line with our longer-term earnings trajectory from this new base.
We also repurchased $200 million of shares in Q1 of fiscal '13.
We will continue to proactively evaluate our capital deployment opportunities to maximize shareholder value.
Finally I do want to point out that in fiscal years 2012 and 2013 through dividends and share repurchases we have returned or expect to return to shareholders more than 60% of our actual and forecasted operating cash flow.
This followed fiscal 2011 a year in which we dedicated a fair amount of our capital deployment to selective strategic M&amp;A.
We believe this 3-year period really demonstrate our balanced and flexible approach which is to return a substantial portion of our cash to shareholders while investing in sustainable business growth and maintaining the flexibility in certain areas to engage in selective acquisitions which fit with our strategic direction.
So let me wrap up.
I'm pleased with our overall performance this quarter although admittedly we didn't arrive at the results exactly as expected.
We still have some work ahead of us in a few areas.
And our relentless focus on being best-in-class from a cost and capital efficiency standpoint will not let up.
In today's health care environment it's imperative that we demonstrate each and every day that we are taking waste out of our structures in a process through which we work with our partners both upstream and downstream.
With that let's begin Q&amp;A.
Operator our first question? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of John Kreger with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> George can you maybe just expand on some of your utilization and volume comments in the prepared remarks? It's -- I think in the past you guys have talked about volumes being relatively stable versus your expectations.
It sounds like at least on the Medical side they were a bit lighter than you thought.
What about on the Pharma side how were volumes there? Yes why don't we start with the Pharma first.
I think Pharma volumes were largely as we expected very low-single digit increase and Rx is up probably about as we expected.
As a commentary the Pharmaceutical part of the Health System is in many ways the most efficient.
And so to the extent that there is sort of movement up and down in the system I would expect the Pharmaceutical to be a little bit more predictable and it has been.
On the Medical side it's probably been more choppy and again that's the word we've used before and I probably say again it tends to bounce up and down.
If you look at let's say August surveys outpatient visits were slightly up inpatient surgeries were down a bit.
And so when we look at the quarter -- overall in the quarter we saw inpatient surgeries being down.
Outpatient were up -- were slightly up.
So I would say relative to what we were expecting office visits for example in September were down.
So it's been really difficult to discern a pattern but it was a bit lighter in the Medical side than we would have anticipated.
Research Division</strong> And then a quick follow-up particularly in light of the recent consolidation announcement on the ambulatory side how do you feel about that part of your business? How is it doing? And is it still a strategic priority for you? Yes it remains a strategic priority for us largely in that we believe that the integration of the health system is going to require patients to be able to be followed throughout the continuum of care.
So we now see a much -- a more highly attempt -- a greater attempt to coordinate care as patients move from acute care into ambulatory settings or surgery settings to physician's office.
And you could argue the home as well.
So strategically it remains very important to us.
It was a bit of a tough quarter for us on the ambulatory side primarily in that the MBT that that transformation referred to which required a lot of change management issues was probably more challenging for small office practices than you might find for major acute care customers.
We're asking people to make changes and they're probably less equipped.
But we do expect that our renewed attention to generating business rather than resolving administrative issues or invoicing issues will get us back on track.
So we continue to see this as a strategic area and we're doing some interesting work to grow that business.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So George discuss the procedure volumes one that caused the soft revenue in Medical or maybe softer-than-expected revenue in Medical? Your large acute care medical the 2 of you [ph] mentioned a lack of price inflation and they continue to talk about some pressure from the larger provider networks now on their ability to price.
Are you seeing anything different on pricing? And I was wondering if maybe you could also comment on the progression of the consolidation that we're seeing at the provider -- on the provider level in Medical? Yes Robert I would say that we were more surprised by some of the changes in utilization rather than in pricing.
I think the pricing environment has been relatively consistent.
It's competitive as we always expect.
I think where we saw a bit more shift than we had modeled was just this balancing of volume and -- so that was a little bit less than we had modeled.
But I would say that was probably the more noteworthy issue for us during the period.
As it relates to consolidation I think we're going to continue to see a lot of movement in the medical space.
As you know there's sort of a large consolidation across different segments of health care.
You're seeing it in the insurance world.
We're seeing it in the health care provider world and certainly the Health System's world.
So we'll expect to continue to see consolidation.
For us this is a familiar place.
We're used to dealing with large integrated health systems.
In many ways it plays to our strength.
And so not unexpected for us.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up just trying to understand the Medical segment guidance a little bit better in light of this quarter's results.
So you guys are still expecting the double-digit profit growth.
Is that because you know that specific costs there are going to fall away that will help that margin in the profit as we move forward? Or is there some expectations there around volumes picking up again? Just trying to get a better sense of the confidence in your guidance from here.
I'm not sure we're projecting a dramatic change in utilization or volume but I think in particular some of the issues around our first quarter where we really had to devote a lot of energy on making sure that the administratively we were well aligned with customers on the changes.
In a way it took our attention away from driving new business promoting the new products driving our ambulatory settings.
So we spent for us as a business probably more of our energy making sure the system was completely stable and that customers were being served effectively.
And so I think our ability to get back to business will be very important for us.
We also expect I think the continued growth of our preferred products will contribute to that margin expansion.
One other thing I've mentioned as we get towards second quarter and beyond we do expect to get more benefit from the turnaround commodity prices.
As I mentioned in Q1 that was a slight positive for the quarter.
In fact the commodity benefit was about $3 million benefit year-on-year.
We do expect that benefit to pick up at least in Q2 and Q3 which is the quarters that we're beginning to get some visibility in although beyond that will still depend on how market prices fluctuate.
Our next question comes from the line of David Larsen with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> The operating margin in the distribution division came in better than what I was looking for.
And according to what we've done it looks like it was a very good generic launch quarter.
Can you just give a sense as to do you agree with that and how you expect margins to trend sort of for the remainder of the year? Do you expect to be able to sustain that type of growth or was it really just a real good generic launch quarter relative to the rest of the fiscal year? Dave this is Jeff.
I would say it was a good generic launch quarter.
We had a number of what I would say smaller launches than what we experienced last year but they added up to a fairly healthy number.
And in fact as I said in my prepared remarks the total benefit from new generic launches in the quarter this year was actually slightly above last year which is good and a little bit better than our expectations.
But probably the bigger contributor over the quarter was really just our overall performance in the base generics business.
We continue to work on penetration.
We continue to improve our sourcing.
We continue to see the benefits of the expansions we've made into retail independent and other generic sales we've been making.
And we benefit from a lack of deflation.
In fact there was actually net inflation for the quarter.
So I think all of those things contributed to our strong generics performance.
I'm a little bit loathe to provide segment-specific guidance going forward although I think a common theme you'll see this year is the continued strength of our overall generics portfolio.
As we said when we gave guidance for the year we do expect our overall profitability from generics to be higher in fiscal '13 than it was in fiscal '12.
And we're doing -- everyone in our Pharmaceutical segment is doing what they can to ensure that performance continues not only this year but beyond.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So it sounds like it's somewhat sustainable.
Our next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just had an overall question on the acquisition environment George.
Can you maybe just talk about what you're seeing out in the marketplace right now? I think everyone is applauding your increase in the dividend.
But as we think about the acquisition strategy whether China or the U.S.
how should we think about deployment in those areas? And what are the key areas or products that you're really looking to deploy from an acquisition perspective? Yes I think we've said relatively consistently that our goal is a sustainable growth model.
We're doing everything we can of course with our existing portfolio to make sure that that's happening but we also recognize that an evolving system we need to be very aware of the opportunities that might enhance that position for us to compete on the long term.
And so we continue to be looking and looking very actively at opportunities to drive value for our shareholders through the right strategic acquisitions.
We've highlighted areas I think for us that are important.
We've talked about everything that grows our business and improves our mix in the retail space.
We've done some things there over the past years to improve that.
We've talked about how important preferred products are to us and so opportunities to look at moves that enhance our preferred product position.
We're an important service provider to health care systems and we've done some small sort of tuck-in moves to enhance our ability to serve health systems across the continuum of care.
And so we've looked at areas in and around specialty which as you probably know covers a lot of territory depending on who you're speaking to and what specialty means but strategically to us this continues to be an important area and so we continue to look in there.
China of course strategically we believe is an enormously important platform for us.
So those are just some of the areas that we continue to look at and we do believe that every great company has to be replenishing its portfolio both through internal moves and stretch moves but also now and again from external moves and we'll continue to look for those opportunities.
Research Division</strong> And so George what do think is holding you back from making recent acquisitions? Is it price in the marketplace I mean especially when you think about specialty did the assets look very expensive? But is there something else? Is it not the right strategic fit? How should we think about what assets are available and what really fits into Cardinal Health? Well I hope you'll think of us as disciplined in the way we look at creating value for our shareholders.
So we'll look at opportunities -- there are many businesses that may fall in a space that people regard as hot or exciting but on deep examination we might find that there's not enough value creation on a sustainable way for our shareholders.
And so we look at virtually everything but we'll take a disciplined approach to it.
I think our perspective is we want to make sure that if we acquire something we add value to it.
We're not just a financial instrument.
We believe that we're a strategic health care provider and that -- service provider and that we'll want to make sure that whatever we acquire that we bring something to the table.
And so there are times where you find that but the price may not be attractive for us and we'll just try to be very disciplined about our thinking here.
Lisa this is Jeff.
Let me expand a little bit further on the China situation which is somewhat unique as you know.
Since the original acquisition of Yong Yu almost 2 years ago now we've actually signed 5 further what I would describe as small-ish tuck-in acquisitions.
Four of those have closed and the fifth is actually in the final approval processes and we expect to close later this year.
All of these acquisitions I would describe as relatively small.
The total equity investment -- by the way these are all majority portfolio and acquisitions as well but the total equity investment totals under $100 million.
Four of them are really part of our plans to expand geographically to expand the number of major cities that we have physical infrastructure in.
And I would say the fifth is in the category of rounding out our offering to the manufacturers and specifically it was buying a channel data management company that allows us to provide to the health care manufacturers much better insights into how their products are being distributed and utilized in the market.
So those are the types of acquisitions that we continue to look at.
We're being very selective.
There's lots of assets in China but a relatively small number that we would actually consider buying in part because we want to make sure the cultural fit is right with our organization and they understand our focus on compliance and Western management et cetera.
But there are assets out there we continue to have good success in identifying them and we will continue to make these sort of acquisitions going forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Muken with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So as we think about -- just going back to sort of specialty and then the growth areas have obviously been off of a low base and that sort of contrasts against what we've seen in Nuclear.
I mean in terms of your differentiated businesses there I mean how do you feel about how that strategy is coming together? Where are you putting more of your attention? Is it on continuing to sort of find new areas for Specialty? Is it sort of fixing some of the pieces in Nuclear that aren't working? Just trying to get a sense for where we should be focused.
So I would -- Ross I would sort of distinguish the Specialty from the Nuclear space at the moment on as it relates to the way we're approaching it.
Specialty is really a business that for us is just 3 years old and so it's about building the platform about building new tools some of those technology-based and about really exploring different business models that allow sort of this connection of the pharma company the payer and the provider to connect.
And we're actually having some very encouraging results there.
So we've signed a number of new contracts both on the provider side and the payer side.
Of course at the same time we're building our specialty distribution.
This probably tends to be a lower margin part of that overall mix but I would say in general we're actually encouraged by the growth there.
We're early enough in our evolution to continue to really experiment with new models and we're doing a fair bit of that.
Obviously as I mentioned to Lisa to the extent that we find the right opportunities externally that sort of supercharge that we would certainly consider it.
But we're making some really good progress there.
Our Nuclear situation is a bit different.
We have inside the Nuclear business 2 different dynamics at work.
One is our traditional legacy business which is in the cardiac imaging which we're extremely good at very efficient really strong position in the market very much a company that cardiac imaging centers depend on but procedures have been down.
So our key is about optimization there it's about making sure we've got the right alignment the right number of pharmacies and that we're building efficiencies.
We actually invested in some technology to increase efficiency there.
The second part of Nuclear business is really in the diagnostic space for oncology and neurology and that's where PET comes into play.
And while that's early and certainly a smaller business we remain pretty excited about the evolution of what's happening in the pharma side.
Certainly cracking the code on Alzheimer's has been challenging for everyone but I think the opportunities in diagnostics around oncology and around neurology create opportunity for us.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Rhyee with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jeff maybe you want to touch on the guidance a little bit.
I think last quarter you had made some comments on the segment side.
On the Pharma looking for op growth I think in the mid-single digits.
Is that still correct? And then on the med-surg side I think in your comments you said that you still expect a benefit from the MBT here in the back half of the year but that -- for it to be accretive there's a little bit of stress.
Does that kind of imply that we should assume op profit -- total op profit is still down year-over-year? And does that also include the impact of the med device tax? Charles I'm not sure I understood the second part of your question.
Let me try to answer the first one and maybe you can repeat the second.
I may not have just heard you properly.
We didn't give specific Pharma segment profitability guidance for FY '13.
We did indicate that we expected revenue to be down given the brand-to-generic conversions and the impact of the Express Scripts nonrenewal.
And we also indicated that we expected a positive year-on-year contribution from our generics programs.
I would say those statements are still very much intact.
In fact I'd probably say based on Q1 we're slightly ahead of where we thought we'd be really driven by the strength of our generics programs.
So I would say generally our view of the Pharma segment for the rest of the year remains intact although we're feeling increasingly bullish about where generics are coming out.
But clearly there's still lots here to go lots of generic launches to happen or not happen so I don't want too ahead of ourselves on that one.
And Charles maybe you can repeat your second question please.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes sure.
On the Medical side when we think about the puts and takes here with your expectations for the business transformation how it ramps for the rest of the year versus some of the volumes and I think the medical device tax starts ticking in next year how should we think about overall operating profit growth or should we -- or decline relative to fiscal '12? Now I get it.
Thanks Charles.
So I would say our basic guidance for the Medical segment which we gave in August really hasn't changed in that we still expect mid-single-ish digit revenue growth versus the prior year and are targeting double-digit segment profit growth versus the prior year.
Those haven't changed.
But some of the drivers of that have varied somewhat.
For example at that time we did expect the Medical Business Transformation to be net slightly accretive net of the depreciation.
I would say that goal now is probably a bit of a stretch and we may not be able to achieve that given the slow start we got to Q1.
On the flip side the commodity prices have moved in our favor over the past few months particularly based -- related to latex and oil-based resins.
So that will give us a bit of an offset to the shortfall on Medical Business Transformation and some pickup in the latter part of the year as I referenced earlier.
Our assumptions regarding the medical device tax impact which kicked in in January have remained about the same we quantify that in the range of $13 million to $23 million.
That's still the likely range and we're working in Washington and elsewhere to try to get more clarification as to exactly how that will be applied.
And our views on volumes Q1 was a little bit lighter than we expected particularly as it relates to procedural volumes.
We would hope we would get a slight pickup from that in the last 3 quarters of the year but we're making sure that from a cost standpoint we're ready for a range of outcomes in that regard.
So those are basically the moving parts but the basic guidance in terms of revenue and segment profit really hasn't changed.
Our next question comes from the line of John Ransom with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just trying to understand the breakdown of volume.
If you look at your Pharmaceutical distribution would you say that your same customer volumes were up in the first quarter -- or excuse me in the September quarter? Honestly that is such a hard calculation to make because of the brand-to-generic conversions.
I mean if you're looking at sales dollars they're down right? Just because of the sheer dynamics of the transition from branded products to generics that we're seeing.
I would say overall -- and again keep in mind that our large retail customers when we go brand-to-generic may purchase a portion of their generics directly from the manufacturer so that would impact our unit volume as well.
But I would say our view of the overall industry volumes if that's your question is I would say fairly consistent with what IMS is reporting sort of in the 2-ish percent growth range.
When you cut out all that noise that's a lot of noise but I think our fundamental view of units is pretty consistent with IMS.
John I'd probably add that given the distribution of our business we probably are pretty good comparisons to the overall system.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well maybe asked another way let's just take your non-bulk customers for a minute.
If you were to look at your non-bulk customers I mean would you think your -- you mentioned that your revenues were up so I assume your volumes were up and you're capturing more generics this year versus last year on the same customer non-bulk basis.
Yes John just to be careful we rarely have a just bulk and non-bulk.
Although on the independent side it is non-bulk but in terms of our chain business it is often a blend of bulk and non-bulk.
So I just have to be just a little bit careful in using that as a barometer.
I would say our independent business -- actually all of our classes of trade have gone reasonably well.
Again I don't know that -- and probably our generic penetration has been strong but I don't know how best to characterize each account analysis that you're asking.
I mean I would just summarize it I think generally same-store sales when you adjust for brand-to-generic conversions and everything else we're fairly robust with our non-bulk customers.
And keep in mind that we had a significant customer win that came into effect April 1 of last year.
So we're benefiting from that as well.
And finally keep in mind that our specialty volume also impacts our non-bulk rates.
So all those factors helped drive that 7% increase.
Our next question comes from the line of May Zhan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'm in for Ricky Goldwasser for Morgan Stanley.
Can you just talk a little bit about the competitive environment especially given the recent McKesson acquisition and just kind of give a little bit more detail there? Well we really have a number of competitive environments.
Obviously you mentioned the McKesson acquisition which is an acquisition that's primarily in the office-based medical surgical supply area.
We have our Nuclear business we've got Pharmaceutical Distribution we've got acute care.
So we really in many ways operate in a number of competitive environments and they have their own unique characteristics.
I guess as a starting point I don't know that I would describe any noteworthy change that I could offer you versus our last conversation 3 months ago on an earnings call.
Each -- and I've said this before in many of our businesses each customer situation has its own unique competitive set.
But if you ask me could I describe an overall general trend or a trend break as it relates to our competitive environments other than the acquisition you just mentioned which is noteworthy it would be hard to characterize.
Obviously in the medical surgical office-based area the McKesson acquisition is noteworthy.
Obviously we continue to evolve our strategy in the ambulatory space and sort of believe that we have a bit of a unique situation there in that our portfolio of products and services our presence across channels positions us somewhat uniquely to be able to serve large health systems across their continuum of care including physicians' office.
But I would not describe a major trend break today or a particular trend that I could discern.
Research Division</strong> I was just going to say I'm just looking at what are some of the key generic launches we should focus on for the rest of the year? We generally do not forecast or speak to specific launches in the future.
There's a lot of moving parts as you know May as it relates to generic launches and much of the discussion between us and our vendor suppliers can be proprietary.
So we continue to see a solid environment.
As Jeff mentioned there have been some noteworthy launches during this past few months including Singulair and Actos 2 of the launches.
But going forward we generally don't provide a lot of guidance on specific product launches.
Operator I think we've got time for one more question.
Okay.
Our final question comes from the line of Eric Coldwell with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Largely covered a couple of quick technical ones.
Bulk sales can you give us the operating margin for the quarter? Eric we're trying to get out of the habit of providing the bulk and non-bulk rates on a quarterly basis for a few reasons.
Number one on a quarterly basis they can fluctuate quite a bit and it's not really representative of our longer-term trends.
And secondly it's not really the way we look at the business.
That all said I will say that both bulk and non-bulk rates were up in the quarter both versus last year as well as versus the average of last year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I didn't know if you were kind of pulling back some of that data given the Express Scripts change but I guess we'll live with that for now.
It looks like you made a few acquisitions in the quarter.
Can you maybe tell us specifically what they were? Yes.
The only one of any significant note was the Dik Drug acquisition that we had announced last quarter.
It actually closed in Q1 and that's what really caused the increase in our guided intangible amortization for the year.
As you recall that was a regional distributor based in the Chicago area that serviced primarily retail independents.
That acquisition now that it's closed and is being integrated going extraordinarily well I think both from a customer standpoint as well as the employees that we've taken into the Cardinal Health family.
So we're extremely happy the way that's progressed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last one is a little more strategic.
CMS early in the month released detailed data on pharmacy acquisition costs and pharmacy revenues by payer type subsequently pulled the data I think it was literally within a day.
But any ripple impact from that increased transparency? I'm just curious what you're thinking and if you guys have had to kind of revisit any of your thoughts in terms of pricing or if your customers are revisiting thoughts on pricing now that all of the data became available albeit briefly.
Right right.
Eric this is George.
We sort of said in the past that the implementation of a reimbursement mechanism like AMP as designed was likely to be problematic.
That is in fact what's happened.
The amount of variability in the data coming out of this made it unnavigable.
So as a result I think this is going to take time to play out.
So actually it doesn't really change our views because the transparency did not provide meaningful utilizable data.
And so as we expected this would take some time to sort out and that the mechanism used here is probably not at this point going to be valid.
And so that's not suggesting some kind of change for us.
That does conclude our question-and-answer session for today's conference.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's call.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Cardinal Health Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Sally Curley.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you Shannon and welcome to today's second quarter fiscal 2013 earnings conference call.
Today we will be making forward-looking statements.
The matters addressed in these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to the SEC filings and the forward-looking statements slide at the beginning of the presentation found on the Investor page of our website for a description of risks and uncertainties.
In addition we will reference non-GAAP financial measures.
Information about these measures is included at the end of the slides.
I would also like to remind you of a few upcoming investment conferences and events in which we will be webcasting notably the Leerink Swann Global Healthcare Conference on February 13 at 10:30 in New York; the Cowen &amp; Co.
33rd Annual Healthcare Conference on March 5 in Boston; and the Barclays Global Healthcare Conference on March 13 in Miami.
The details of these events are or will be posted on the IR section of our website at cardinalhealth.com so please make sure to visit the site often for updated information.
We look forward to seeing you at one of these upcoming events.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Cardinal Health's Chairman and CEO Mr.
George Barrett.
George? Thanks Sally.
Good morning everyone and thanks to all of you for joining us on our second quarter call today.
We've now completed a strong first half to our fiscal 2013.
Total revenue for the second quarter was $25.2 billion.
Although this represents a decline of 6.8% from the prior year's period it was not unexpected given this past year's brand-to-generic conversions and the movement of the Express Scripts contract.
Most important our focus on value generation for our customers and our continued attention to portfolio product and customer mix along with disciplined performance management by our people resulted in year-over-year growth in non-GAAP operating earnings of 10.6% to $525 million; non-GAAP EPS of $0.93 growth of 15%.
Based on our results for the first half of our fiscal 2013 and the way we see the balance of the year we are now guiding to the upper half of our prior guidance range with a new non-GAAP EPS range of $3.42 to $3.50.
Stepping back for a few moments from the quarter just passed this really is an extraordinary time in healthcare.
It seems clear that powerful forces specifically the aging of our population public health challenges and legislative actions to improve access to care for those who've lacked adequate care will drive long-term demand.
It is also clear however that unless we can approach things differently as a system the cost of providing care will present overwhelming economic challenges.
While I am largely describing the U.S.
phenomenon this is true throughout the world.
It is in this context that our Essential to care tagline is more than a slogan.
It drives our strategy and the motivation of our people who serve our customers and drive our performance.
Cardinal Health not only represents an essential seamless and highly-efficient system for linking pharmaceutical and medical products companies with the provider and even the patient but our other offerings make us increasingly important at this unique time.
Let me give you a few examples.
Our surgical kits reduce unnecessary movement around the operating room and the potential for errors.
Our provider-directed oncology tools are designed to facilitate the patient-centered practice of medicine and help with the focus on outcomes.
Our medical-preferred products program take advantage of our scale to aggregate demand across multiple providers to bring costs down and standardization up.
Our nuclear medicine organization facilitates diagnosis of cardiac disease cancer and neurological diseases.
Our generic product programs enable all customers to access these important products through our best-in-class network.
Our enterprise footprint allows us to serve integrated delivery systems as their models shift and our organization continues to pursue innovative ways to change the game while making sure the patient is the center of the universe.
So with that high-level overview I'll now briefly discuss the performance of our segments.
First the Pharmaceutical segment.
Under Mike Kaufman's leadership the Pharma segment continued its momentum with a profit gain of 12% for the second quarter.
Led by Pharma Distribution our Pharmaceutical segment profit margin expanded 34 basis points versus last year.
We continue to work closely with our pharmaceutical partners across branded BioPharma and generic developing the support and services to meet the unique and evolving needs of each.
Generics now represent approximately 80% of all prescriptions billed in the United States and clearly continuing our strong momentum and performance here is a priority.
While much attention is devoted to the ups and downs of generic launches and we are certainly affected by these fluctuations our model focuses on value creation throughout the generic product's lifecycle and this will help sustain growth in this product area.
As you know we've worked hard at rebalancing our customer and product mix in Pharmaceutical Distribution and those improvements are driving our margin expansion and profit dollar growth in the segment.
Moving to Nuclear our business continues to be affected by the softness in the markets for cardiac nuclear imaging procedures which we've referenced in recent calls.
Our market share remains very healthy and our quality and service performance is industry-leading but procedures have not yet remounted.
Having said that cardiac disease is not declining and nuclear cardiac imaging is still the gold standard.
At some point we would expect to see the negative trend reverse.
Our Specialty Solutions group continues its robust sales growth recording an increase of almost 70% a quarter the result of building important partnerships and an expanding market share.
We know that growing sustainable profitability in this space will be driven by our continued expansion of scale right mix of business and true innovation.
During the quarter Specialty expanded its reach through new products and new relationships.
Three technology products for physicians' offices were launched to help improve practice efficiency and connectivity to other stakeholders in healthcare.
We continue to expand our network of specialty pharma clients that use our 3PL in healthcare analytics and marketing businesses.
And we acquired a distributor of critical care pharmaceuticals during the quarter Innovis which leverages our existing platform in the specialty hospitals and blood plasma distribution space.
Our Medical segment reported 11% profit growth for the second quarter.
As we told you last quarter much of the attention of our customer-facing organization during the first quarter was devoted to addressing the change management issues following our major systems implementation.
During the course of Q2 we were able to redeploy most of those resources back to selling the products and services which will help our customers deliver care.
We're making great progress and we continue to be encouraged by the response to the offerings which we believe will be increasingly important to our provider customers and our supplier partner.
Don Casey has now been on board leading our Medical segment for over 9 months and is doing terrific work in positioning the segment to adapt to the quickly evolving market focusing on the right opportunities refining our customer-facing efforts and investing in growth areas.
At the same time we have taken actions to improve efficiencies in areas where the competitive landscape dictates us.
Jeff will touch on this a bit more during his comments.
While some of our progress in Medical was masked by the challenging procedural environment our continued focus on improving our product mix resulted in increased profit contribution for our preferred products in the quarter [ph].
One of our newer initiatives our integrated orthopedic solutions offering its design to deliver high-quality lower-priced orthopedic products and associated service.
We expect this line to create real sustainable savings for our health system customers going forward.
Our Canadian business reported another quarter of double-digit growth for both revenue and profit including the impact of last year's very successful acquisition and integration of Futuremed.
Our revenues in China were up over 35% and we achieved continued gross margin expansion.
Our local direct distribution business continues to deliver very robust growth as we execute on our strategy of increasing market share by enlarging our geographical footprint and targeted acquisition and exploring new business partnerships and programs in areas like consumer health and direct-to-patient distribution.
And finally I'd like to note that Cardinal Health retained the #1 slot in Gartner's Fourth Annual Healthcare Supply Chain Top 25 ranking.
We are gratified to maintain this position in this program that assesses value in the delivery of health care products.
So in summary we had a strong first half of our fiscal year and we'll continue to focus on delivering on our mission of being Essential to care.
This will require that we execute with discipline on our foundational business while at the same time demonstrating the innovative instincts that add value in an industry experiencing change.
And with that I'll turn it to Jeff.
Thanks George and good morning everyone.
Today I plan to cover the drivers of our second quarter performance and key financial trends and then make a few comments on our full year outlook.
You can refer to the slide presentation posted on our website as a guide to this discussion.
Let me begin by saying I'm extremely happy with our strong 15% second quarter non-GAAP EPS growth.
This keeps us well on track to achieve our full year goals.
As George mentioned with 6 months completed we feel good about tightening our guidance to $3.42 to $3.50 per share; over the top half of the previously provided range.
Now let's move quickly to the income statement starting with revenues.
As we expected and consistent with our overall guidance consolidated revenues were down almost 7% to $25.2 billion due to the nonrenewal of the Express Scripts contract and the continued Pharmaceutical brand to generic conversions.
Second quarter EPS growth was driven by 11% non-GAAP operating earnings growth a slightly better tax rate and a lower share count versus 2012.
Gross margin dollars increased 10% with the rate up 74 basis points versus prior year.
SG&amp;A expenses rose 9% driven by recent acquisitions which were worth about 2 percentage points of this growth; an increase in IT cost much of it related to our Medical Transformation; and investments in certain key strategic priorities including Cardinal Health China.
Our consolidated non-GAAP operating margin rate increased 33 basis points to 2.08%.
Interest and other expense was essentially flat to last year as a change in the value of our deferred compensation plan was largely offset by increased interest expense.
Our non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 36.8% which is 1 percentage point lower than the prior year's quarter but in line with our full 2013 fiscal year guidance of 36.5% to 37.5%.
The year-over-year variability was driven by net unfavorable discrete items during the prior year.
Share repurchases in fiscal 2012 and the first quarter of fiscal 2013 continue to positively impact our share count.
Our diluted average shares outstanding were 343 million for the second quarter over 5 million favorable to the prior year's quarter.
Now let me comment on consolidated cash flows and the balance sheet.
In Q2 we had a use of cash from operating activities of $130 million which is in line with last year's amount and is fairly typical from a seasonal perspective.
As previously indicated we did see a negative impact of the nonrenewal of the Express Scripts contract during the quarter which is mostly offset by timing of some large customer purchasing patterns.
Year-to-date operating cash flow of approximately $440 million is in line with where we were at this point last fiscal year.
As we discussed before we continue to forecast some sizable tax payments in the second half of the year upon resolution of past tax agency audits.
We ended Q2 with approximately $2.3 billion of cash in which approximately $350 million is held overseas.
Our working capital days ended the quarter higher than the prior year mainly driven by higher day sales outstanding due to the nonrenewal of the Express Scripts contract and growth in our strategic areas particularly in China and Specialty Solutions.
Now let's move to segment performance.
I'll discuss Pharma first.
Pharma segment revenue decreased 8% to $22.7 billion in Q2 due to the nonrenewal of the Express Scripts contract and continued brand-to-generic conversions.
This decrease was partially offset by revenues from new customers within Pharmaceutical Distribution.
On a particular note sales to non-bulk customers continue to increase up over 7% for the period.
In Q2 sales in non-bulk customers represented 67% of the segment total versus 58% in last year's Q2.
Our generic programs continue to perform well posting a revenue increase of 19% versus the prior year.
Brand inflation was about what we expected in the high-single digits.
In Specialty Solutions we continue to see good revenue growth of almost 70% versus last year's quarter.
Other segment profit increased by 12% to $441 million in the quarter driven by the overall strong performance of generics and the benefit of customer and product mix within the Pharmaceutical Distribution.
With respect to generics we did see slightly less contribution from new generic launches in this year's quarter versus Q2 of fiscal 2012.
And after experiencing unusual generic inflation in the first quarter we saw a more typical rate of deflation in Q2 aligned with our expectations as certain of last year's significant generic launches are now being lapped.
Segment profit margin rate increased by 34 basis points compared to the prior year's Q2 a reflection of the strength of our generic programs and our focus on margin expansion and customer and product mix.
In addition within customer categories margin expansion was strong across almost all of our customer classes of trade within Pharma Distribution.
As George mentioned the continued market softness in Nuclear particularly impacting our low energy or SPECT business dampened some of the Pharma segment profit growth during the quarter.
Now moving on to Medical.
Medical revenue growth was up 3% versus last year or up $70 million.
Our acquisition of Futuremed in Canada contributed 2.2 percentage points to the segment revenue growth rate in the quarter.
Also we had one additional sales day in the quarter which positively impacted segment revenue.
If you exclude these drivers year-on-year growth was about flat reflecting the continued softness we are seeing in key U.S.
markets particularly as it relates to procedural volume.
From a profit perspective after a less than hopeful start in Q1 we're reporting 11% growth in Medical segment profit this quarter.
Commodities had a favorable $13 million impact versus last year.
The integration of performance of Futuremed continues to go well.
Our preferred products also contributed positively to segment profit.
We continue to expand the breadth and depth of our product offerings as part of these key strategic initiatives.
These profit improvements were partially offset by customer mix as well as continued volume softness.
Now let's talk about the Medical Transformation for a few moments.
As George said we made good progress with some of the change management challenges we mentioned last quarter and fully expect that progress to continue.
For the second quarter the impact of the transformation was slightly negative when you consider all related factors including year-over-year incremental depreciation and program expenses realized benefits and a $5 million favorable out-of-period adjustment to reflect certain vendor chargeback billings as part of continued cleanup from the conversion to our new platform.
The Medical Business Transformation is one important foundational element of our strategy to reposition the Medical segment in the context of the rapidly evolving future of healthcare and we continue other important initiatives to position ourselves for this future.
These include our ongoing efforts to expand our preferred product categories and our focus on bringing value to the continuum of care.
And it also includes a relentless focus on efficiency.
In this regard as George mentioned and as many of you saw in our 8-K filing last week we are proactively making changes which we believe improve our competitive positioning and market focus.
Total charges expected with this restructuring plan are currently estimated at $79 million.
About $33 million of that total are cash expenditures related to employee severance with the remainder being loss on disposal of assets or facility exit costs.
As a reminder these charges will be excluded from our non-GAAP financials in future reporting periods.
The majority of these charges will occur in fiscal 2013 and the benefits from this plan will begin to accrue in our fiscal 2014.
Moving to Cardinal Health China for a minute which spans both segments we once again posted strong double-digit revenue growth as we have since the acquisition.
Our local direct distribution business continues to exhibit exceptional performance growing revenues over 80% in the quarter.
And overall our operation there continues to expand its reach into new areas.
We are leveraging our growing geographic reach brand and reputation for data integrity compliance and operational effectiveness to drive value for manufacturers providers and patients.
Turning to Slide #6 you'll see our consolidated GAAP results for the quarter which include items that had a positive $0.05 per share net after-tax impact on our non-GAAP results.
Included in this figure was the exclusion of $0.05 of acquisition-related costs primarily made up of the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets.
We also had $0.01 worth of impairments and loss on disposal of assets which was also excluded from our non-GAAP results.
Partially offsetting these items was $0.02 of litigation recoveries related to legal settlements.
In the same quarter last year GAAP results were also $0.05 per share lower than non-GAAP results driven by acquisition-related costs.
Now let's talk briefly about full year guidance.
Our consolidated revenue guidance remains unchanged.
Taking into account our first half performance and our best estimate for the second half of the fiscal year we now expect our non-GAAP earnings per share to be in the top half of our previous range meaning $3.42 $3.50 per share.
I'm not going to walk through all the underlying assumptions behind this EPS guidance as most haven't changed since our Q1 call but I do want to highlight a few items.
We are holding our interest and other range to $105 million to $115 million however we now expect the full year to come in at the low end of the range.
As it relates to our fiscal 2013 Medical segment outlook we now expect revenues for the year to be more in line with what we see in the first half of this fiscal year.
Also we continue to target double-digit profit growth but we'll continue to watch utilization as it is a large driver of both top and bottom line performance.
With regards to the medical device tax that kicked in on January 1 under today's interpretation of IRS rules we expect that the negative impact of this tax could be at or even slightly below the bottom end of our previous estimate of $13 million to $23 million for the second half of fiscal 2013.
As a reminder this tax will be recorded as an SG&amp;A expense.
The IRS provided final regulations paired with interim guidance in December 2012 and has requested additional comments on the interim guidance so there's always a possibility that interpretation could change over time.
A few final words related to guidance before I wrap up.
Our general practice is to not provide quarterly expectations but I do want to highlight a few issues.
First as a reminder in last year's third quarter we realized significant benefits from the generic launches of Lipitor and Zyprexa.
And finally I would remind you that our guidance has always included certain assumptions on customer contract renewals for both Pharma and Medical and continues to do so as we look into the second half.
So let me conclude with this.
I feel very good about our strong consolidated performance this quarter but I feel equally good that at the same time as a company we are taking the necessary steps to realign our businesses while market environments are evolving and position ourselves strategically and operationally for the future.
With that let's begin Q&amp;A.
Shannon please take our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Ricky Goldwasser of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Jeff you mentioned that second half guidance includes some assumptions regarding contract renewals so can you provide us with an update on the status of Walgreen and CVS contracts and where are you now in the process? Let me start off there.
Ricky thanks for the question and then I'll turn it to George to make any comments as well.
First of all with regards to my comments about assumptions for contract renewals as we've always said in the past we start out each fiscal year -- we do make certain assumptions in our forecast in our plan related to renewals of contracts and that's true for both the Pharma segment and the Medical segment.
And as part of that we also make certain assumptions regarding which contract may or may not get renewed early what the pricing may be on those contracts et cetera and that all goes into the total set of assumptions that goes into our forecast and plan for the year and obviously into our guidance as well.
So that's standard procedure not only for this year but every year in which we are facing contract renewals.
Regarding the specific status of the Walgreens and CVS contracts obviously it's going to be difficult for us to comment there but let me just turn it to George to...
Yes.
Ricky there's very little to say at this stage.
What I can say to you is that as you know the timing is not in our hands.
But I would say that just based on the expiration date of the contract and the typical sequence of things we would expect that during this March quarter we would get a good indication as to how this would go.
Of course it's unlikely that we'd be announcing anything until contracts are signed but that's just sort of a lay of the land but beyond that it's hard to provide a lot of additional color.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one thought on the comments about the March quarter and the generic comparisons.
So obviously this quarter you've shown at least based on our back of the envelope very nice step-up in gross profit for the Distribution segment.
When we think about that taking in mind the generic challenges but also kind of like the fact that historically March quarter was better due to the seasonality of branded inflation can you quantify for at what percent of that kind of like uptick in gross profit is -- would be sustainable into the March quarter? Ricky I'm not sure I fully understand your question.
What I will say though is that we do expect a negative compare in Q3 related to the specific issue of the value from new generic launches.
Again as a reminder Q3 of FY '12 was a fairly phenomenal and unique period with respect to new generic launches because we had 2 very very large branded products Zyprexa and Lipitor that were still in their 180-day exclusivity period and obviously that was very beneficial for us and the other distributors from a profitability perspective.
If you fast-forward a year now those products are now off exclusivity so you would expect that they will be contributing less to our bottom line considerably less to our bottom line than they were last year.
And as I said the overall comparison of value from new generic launches Q3 this year versus Q3 last year is a negative.
So that's probably the one thing I could call out for Q3.
Regarding the broader question again we don't generally give Q3 guidance so I'll probably have to stay silent on that Ricky.
Research Division</strong> But just to clarify I think you've spoken about it in the past but when we think about generics we think about it as the contribution from new generics but also the generic penetration rates.
So I guess the question is are the generic penetration rates that you've seen year-to-date should we assume that they are sustainable going forward and should serve as a headwind? Ricky let me just sort of comment and it'll be probably a little more general than you'd like but that's the way I'll need to keep it for now.
So our generic programs are going very well.
Our penetration rates are high.
Overall utilization in the system is very high.
Those pressures that are driving systemwide utilization are not declining and that's all good news for us.
And you've probably heard me say this obviously the launches are important to us but we really focus on the notion of value creation throughout the lifecycle of the generic drugs.
As you know that can be a pretty long -- large cycle so we feel pretty good about where we are and we expect to get continued real value from our generic programs.
Our next question is from Lisa Gill of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of questions on the medical side of the business.
I think George you made some comments around investing in growth areas for med-surg and I really had 2 questions.
One can you maybe talk about some of the investments that you're making on that side of the business? And then secondly a question for you Jeff would just be around the margins.
If I look at your comments on commodities and if I were to back that out and look at year-over-year growth it doesn't look like margins are really expanding on the med-surg side of the business.
Can you maybe just talk about what you're seeing underlying from a competitive standpoint? So Lisa why don't I start -- excuse me Lisa why don't I start and then Jeff can pick up.
So generally speaking the focus of our medical business has been extending our footprint which we've been doing as you know trying to make sure that our positioning in the ambulatory centers are in the best position possible.
We've done I think better on the surgical centers than we have in the physicians' office but I think that area was affected probably most by the conversions we referenced in Q1 and investing very heavily in the preferred products program.
We really do believe that this is a long-term value creator for our customers and for us.
So those are the 2 areas that I would highlight as we look at the medical benefit and real focus areas.
Jeff do you want to touch on the second part? Research Division</strong> Wait.
Before you touch on that Jeff if I think about this George that should be much better margin business as we go forward because one your preferred product has a better margin; and two generally speaking ambulatory or physician has better margin than the hospital.
Is that the right way to think about it? I think in general if you look at our priority areas they tend to be positive to mix.
Remember I talked to you about our focus on not just efficiency but on portfolio mix and I think what you're saying is largely correct.
Research Division</strong> And can you give us any idea of how quickly -- what your expectations are over the next couple of years? Do you have growth targets of expansion for private label as well as ambulatory that you can give us an idea of how to think about this or is it too early in the process? It's a bit early for us to give firm goals here externally but you'll probably hear more from us Lisa about this as the program unfolds.
But we have internally aggressive targets for growing these areas.
We think they really are valuable to our customers.
And as you said they also tend to be margin-accretive to us.
Lisa I will remind you at our Investor Day a few years ago we did indicate that our goal in the medium term was to get preferred products to 30% of our segment revenue.
Currently it's in the 23% 24% range.
Obviously with Don on board we're continuing to look at our strategy and his focus and efforts to accelerate the preferred products have been considerable and we expect to continue to drive very aggressively on that front.
Regarding your question on margins I would say there were a number of factors driving margins both up and down in the quarter.
I'd say on the positive side clearly commodities were a positive benefit which was good news.
After 2 years of facing the headwind its nice to have a bit of a tailwind behind us in that regard.
Secondly I'd say preferred product mix within the overall sales contributed to margin.
And then the performance of Canada including the integration of Futuremed was a positive.
On the negative side we face the normal competitive environment in terms of pricing and I would say nothing to notable to note there other than always our customers are looking for increased efficiency.
Secondly I'd say there was a slight negative impact from customer mix and that was just more a consequence of who bought what during the quarter.
And then the third one which I will highlight again is really the impact of utilization.
That has several impacts on us as you would expect but probably most notably particularly when procedural utilization is down whether that's inpatient or outpatient given that the large majority of our preferred products tend to be used for procedures if we're facing a relatively stagnant utilization environment that limits our ability to maximize the sales of preferred products.
So overall mix in the quarter was probably not what we would have hoped if utilization would've been a little bit more robust.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Robert Jones of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Jeff just a follow-up on the medical guidance for the operating profit.
It sounds like you're still calling for double-digit growth there this year.
If I -- even if I include the $5 million out-of-period adjustment it looks like maybe year-to-date year-over-year you're up a couple of percent.
Is there some catch-up we should be thinking about in the back half? Is there a benefit catch-up from MedTrend or something else a tailwind in the back half that can get the back half significantly above year-over-year double digits to make the full year double-digit growth there? Yes.
Great question Bob.
A couple of things I'd point you to.
Number one we'll continue see benefit of commodity prices in the second half of the year.
Some of the positive boom that we saw particularly in Q1 really starts to flow through the income statement in Q3.
Assuming we don't see a dramatic movement in rates for the next month or 2 for the second half of the year commodities will be a significant positive.
The second thing I'm going to point to is what you referred to as -- we do expect the benefit from the Medical Business Transformation to continue to accelerate over the course of the year.
As we said before we got a little bit delayed by 3 or 4 months at the beginning due to some change management issues but we're still very much committed to ramping up the benefit each and every quarter and so as we would expect net-net the benefit to be stronger in the second half of the year.
And I would say the continued efforts to drive preferred products et cetera they should continue to manifest themselves in our results as well.
So those are all positive drivers that we expect not only for the second half of the year but beyond.
I would say slightly offsetting that we do have the medical device tax which although it's lower than we were probably forecasting at the beginning of the year it's still a negative this second half.
And then there's still the uncertainty regarding utilization that -- it has been pretty sluggish in the first half of the year and how exactly that plays out over the next 6 months remains to be seen.
So I would say those are the major moving factors for us as we look at the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up Jeff actually would just be around utilization.
It seems like listening to some of the medical device manufacturers and some of the larger hospital providers this quarter it sounds like they're actually seeing a slight pickup in elective procedure volumes into year-end specifically.
I mean did you -- you guys are obviously still very much calling this a very sluggish environment.
I mean did you see anything even directionally sequentially that would indicate that things are picking up? Just trying to reconcile some of the updates that we've gotten across the utilization front this quarter.
Yes Bob it's George.
Here's what I'd say it would even be hard to call it utilization trend.
Utilization is unbelievably choppy and it -- depending on the month the setting and the source of the data so even sample size on some of this data is quite variable.
So we have not seen what I would say is a discernible pattern.
We will see a spike and look with enthusiasm in the next months will roll back again.
So we've not been able to yet discern a trend although there certainly have been periods where it looks like it's picking up but then we've not seen a sustained -- sustained trend.
Our next question comes from Glen Santangelo of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> George I just was kind of curious about some of the comments you made in your prepared remarks regarding generic pricing.
You seemed to suggest that in your fiscal first quarter you saw some very healthy or unusual year-over-year inflation and then that trend reversed in 2Q to more typical rates of deflation.
I was wondering if there was anything sort of behind that move or anything we should be thinking about in the back half of the fiscal year as far as generic pricing may be concerned.
Great.
Thanks Glen.
Here's what I would say about pricing.
Jeff really touched on it.
The swing from inflation and deflation was largely a product of this year-over-year lapping of those key product launches and that which resulted in the loss of exclusivity.
I would say in general generic pricing has not changed materially since we last spoke the last quarter.
So this was largely as expected; I would not describe any material change.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So maybe if I could just ask one more.
In the press release you seem to suggest the profit from the Medical Business Transformation was negative.
This process has been going on for several years now and I'm kind of curious I mean can you give us a sense for how much additional money do you think you need to spend on this process? What steps are still necessary? And what do you think the timing is going to be to sort of complete this process? Just as a reminder for everyone on the call we went live with the Medical Transformation on February 1 and since that point particularly through the first quarter of this year we were in the process of getting used to the new system and getting our customers and suppliers used to the new system and that really is the change management process that we referred to earlier.
So it's really been in Q2 of this year and beyond that we've been able to focus on beginning to really utilize the value the system brings to us and our customers and our suppliers and getting back to selling products as opposed to getting used to the new system.
So it has taken a period of time to get through that but as George alluded to in his comments we do believe that we're largely through that process and back on the upswing.
Regarding incremental spend I would say the vast vast majority of the spend on these programs is behind us.
Are we still spending a couple of million dollars a quarter to fine-tune the system? As you would expect at this stage of implementation yes.
There are certain things we're seeing that could be improved there are certain things our customers are asking for to improve their interaction with the system and we're making those continued investments to ensure that this system is as robust as possible.
But in the scheme of things those expenditures are very small.
Our next question is from George Hill of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Jeff just a point of clarification a follow-up on Ricky's question.
Did I hear it right that we're expecting operating profit in the drug distribution segment to be down and margins to be down year-over-year due to generic comparisons? No.
What I said is in Q3 the value from new generic launches will be lower in Q3 within Pharmaceutical Distribution than it was last year.
And that's really a comp issue in that last year's new generic launches were fairly unique and quite phenomenal from a contribution perspective.
But that speaks just to the value of new generic launches.
As we've said before generic profitability in total is driven by much much more than just new generic launches.
It's driven by our penetration of existing accounts our new accounts our ability to continue to supply better.
And regardless of how the year-on-year compare for generic launches necessarily looks for this full year we would expect the overall profitability of the generics to be a materially positive in total.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up in MedSurg with respect to the most recent restructuring announcement as I think about just the cash component of that and the employee severance assuming the company isn't paying severed employees in multiple of their current salary for fiscal '14 that $33 million figure probably that figure or greater you should think about as kind of a earnings accretion component for fiscal '14? Am I thinking about that right? Yes.
I'm not going to get into the specifics of that.
That's something we'll cover when we give our guidance for next year.
But I will say that some of that severance represents net headcount reduction.
But in other cases it's a relocation of employee headcount.
So we are moving some of our production particularly our kitting production to lower-cost locations.
So I would not necessarily say all those employees are going away.
They're probably net-net we are reducing some employees but it's really about an overall reduction in product costs related to efficiency of operations and location of production.
Research Division</strong> Okay so that $33 million is not like a net salary reduction? That's something I would comment on -- that's correct.
And like I said we'll talk about the savings when we give guidance for next year.
Our next question is from Charles Rhyee of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe moving over the pharma side a little bit here and getting to nuclear and obviously you talked about the procedure volume being soft.
Can you just remind us what procedures have cardiologists been using currently if they're not using nuclear imaging? And why would the procedure volumes necessarily come back at this point if they're managing without it? So yes.
It's an interesting question and I think it's a somewhat interesting systemic question.
I think there probably has been some petty oversight when you look at the payers as to how procedures are done how frequently they're done what is the pathway that should be followed as it relates to doing procedures.
And we're seeing that probably is happening all around healthcare right now.
So I think in general this is still the tool used but it's a question of when it's used at what stage and I think that's probably what we're seeing.
That's why we'd expect if there's some correction in the system going to the issue of maybe excess utilization and we're probably seeing this in other areas of imaging then we might see some correction.
I would expect that at some point we would see a recovery based on the normal demand based on what's actually happening in cardiac disease.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe one follow-up question on the Pharma side I know you guys just mentioned that the generic you have a tough compare on the generics side.
But one of your peers talked about a brand manufacturer sort of inflation benefit getting pushed into the March quarter.
Based on your fee-for-service contracts do you expect something similar to that? So again we're not going to guide by the quarter but I think what I'd say generally speaking is that branded price increases have been relatively robust for our year-to-date.
So we won't guide as it relates to what's happening in our Q3 or Q4 specifically.
But generally year-to-date we'd say brand inflation has been relatively robust.
Robust and I'd say generally in line with what we've expected so far.
We haven't seen any significant shift versus our expectations.
Our next question is from Ross Muken of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So on specialty I know again we're coming off of a fairly low base but it seems like the momentum in that business has kind of continued to you.
I know it's been a big focus.
Are you starting to see the types of wins or the places where you're having more success in terms of the profile of customer change? What's been the sort of network effect of sort of your increased presence there versus where you were virtually out of the market several years ago? How are you just thinking about the trajectory of how well you're doing in that piece? Well the trajectory has been good.
I think for us it's been important for us to build scale which we've been doing.
You've seen the growth rate.
That was also important in terms of our -- solidifying all those relationships with the manufacturers.
They want to make sure they're working with a partner that has good reach and we've been able to accomplish that.
I think our work has really been about expanding not just that distribution reach but also the services work that we're doing in oncology in neurology and some work in rheumatology.
So trying to provide value drivers for those practices in combination with the work that we're doing in building out our distribution operations has been a good combination.
But again we still have quite a way to go but progress is encouraging.
Research Division</strong> And in the China business; again another area of strength for you.
What are some of the new initiatives you're sort of pursuing in that market? Anything on the specialty end? And then where have we been from sort of a tuck-in acquisition standpoint in that region? Russ this is Jeff.
As I said we continue to be very excited about the performance of China and maybe even more excited about the future potential of the business.
I'll answer your questions in reverse order.
In terms of acquisitions we have now completed the -- we have now signed 6 acquisitions since the original Yong Yu acquisition.
So 6 in addition to Yong Yu.
Four of those have closed 2 of those are still in the approval process with the government.
I would say all of those deals have been less than $30 million and some considerably less than that because as I said before it's not so much about buying large volume it's about ensuring that we have geographic presence in the key population centers of China which we view as about 25 locations that are critical to our strategy going forward.
So that geographic expansion process continues to go very well both through those acquisitions and through organic means.
At the same time as you referred to we're looking to layer additional business models on top of our geographic channel.
One of those is the direct-to-patient pharmacies that we've setting up.
We now have 6 of those in the country.
They're doing very well.
And the number of products and the number of manufacturers looking to use those pharmacies to get the products to patients continues to expand nicely.
So we're very excited about what we can bring to those pharmacies which is integrity compliance and our brand in a way that is very appealing to both the manufacturer and the patient.
We also continued to expand our consumer health care business and this is about bringing over-the-counter health care products mainly from Western manufacturers to retail pharmacy.
Just given the nature of the retail pharmacy system in China it's very difficult for manufacturers to get on the shelf sometimes and get promoted and we provide the opportunity through our distribution and merchandising network to bring products to customers through these pharmacies in a way that hasn't necessarily been possible for Western manufacturers before.
So that's very exciting and that's ramping up.
We continue to build our med device business.
Again it's somewhat different from our U.S.
business given the nature of the Chinese market but we're having great success dealing with med device and MedSurg manufacturers looking to get their products to market in what is a very complex supply chain in China.
So these are all things that we're pushing forward very quickly and I think all have great hope for the future.
Our next question is from Steven Valiquette of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the potential market share gains in various channels in U.S.
Pharmaceutical distribution.
So obviously in the U.S.
there's one big PBM customer that was lost there was one big supermarket retailer that was added.
It's been talked about in the investment community.
But without naming names just curious were there any other material customer wins in the U.S.
that maybe helped drive growth in the quarter? Maybe you could talk about it by channel whether it's retail GPOs or hospitals or whatever.
Just trying to get a sense for any other noteworthy customer wins.
Yes thanks.
I would say there's probably not anything that would be noteworthy.
Again our concentration on a couple of key accounts obviously is one that people are well aware of.
But obviously our distribution includes whatever 15 000 16 000 other customers.
And so I would say that the ones that you've highlighted are the ones that are worth noting on publicly.
But by and large nothing else that is moving the needle in some dramatic way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes that's helpful.
I mean all we're trying to compare some of the growth across all the companies in this particular segment and your growth was definitely pretty strong versus some of the peers so I guess I'll just say congrats on a strong execution.
Our next question is from Tom Gallucci of Lazard Capital.
Research Division</strong> This is Colleen Lang on for Tom.
Jeff can you just talk about your priorities for capital deployment or use of cash for the remainder of year? Yes.
Thank you for the question.
I'm not going to put it in the context of the remainder of the year because I think capital deployment is sort of a longer-term strategy.
But I would say our longer-term philosophy really hasn't changed from what we've spoken about before.
We view it as very balanced and somewhat opportunistic depending on the availability of cash and the opportunities we see in front of us.
I think it starts with a commitment to a competitive sustained and growing dividend payout which we've demonstrated over the past 9 months with a almost 27% increase in our dividend which I think continues to put us really at the forefront of health care services company in terms of that dividend payout and yield.
We're also committed to continuing to fund our organic capital expenditures which this year we've guided to being somewhere in the $210 million to $225 million range and most of that tends to be concentrated in the IT space.
Beyond that it really is an opportunistic determination between selective M&amp;A and share repo.
We are -- we'll continue to look for nonorganic opportunities to accelerate some of our strategic priorities as we've done in the past and we will continue to opportunistically look to buy back shares depending on the market and our share price and windows of availability et cetera.
In any given quarter and perhaps in any given year you could see some fluctuations in terms of the balance.
So as you saw 3 years ago we tended to be tilted towards acquisitions; for the past 2-plus years we've tended to be tilted towards share repo.
But again that's based on opportunities and availability of cash.
Overall our longer-term philosophy hasn't changed.
Our next question is from John Kreger of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> To the Pharma segment it's a longer-term question.
Can you give us your thoughts -- do you think you can hold or improve the EBIT margin where you're showing some great gains as you move into a period with lower new generic launches? Yes good question.
But we really do believe that the margin expansion is a product of multiple parts of our strategy.
Part of it is the way we've approached customer mix.
Part of it is the way that we've looked at product mix and particularly the way that we've driven our generic programs.
Part of it is our overall approach to efficiency and the services that we're providing and how we get compensated for those services.
So in general I would say the pattern has been pretty consistent over these past couple of years.
Obviously it's our goal is to continue.
That direction of margin expansion is a high priority for us.
We measure it religiously.
But we're really doing it in a way that addresses customer needs and that's the key.
So we've been encouraged at the progress and we really will continue to focus on this very heavily.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a quick follow-up on Specialty it sounds like you had very good revenue growth again in that segment.
Can you just expand a bit more about what's driving that? Where are you seeing the best traction which kind of disease categories what kind of cross-selling are you seeing? Just any elaboration would be great.
I would -- again I would say primarily our work has been in -- oncology is where we've gotten the greatest traction.
We have had some progress around neurology which is a relatively new area for us.
But again it's not just the distribution for us.
It's building out the technology services.
The specialty space has some unique characteristics.
Heavy clinical orientation a bit more orientation around technology and we've been investing on that.
It takes time and it takes the right talent and we've also been building out the right team to do that.
So I don't think I'd attribute it to one thing but I think as you develop the services that enable the practice it builds credibility.
It's a small universe of physicians who talk to one another and we're just generally making progress there.
Again plenty of room to grow but making good progress.
Just to build on that as George said I think right now the dollar growth is coming from oncology.
But I would also say we're having great success in penetrating both neurology as George said but also rheumatology and that's really about laying the platform for the future as we see future specialty drugs coming down the platform particularly RA establishing a strong market share in that area and building on that is very important.
Our next question is from David Larsen of Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> Total revenue from China is that around $1.5 billion now and do you expect it to continue to grow at a double-digit rate? And can you just comment on operating margins in China? Are those typically better than the book overall? Yes thanks for the question.
Yes we think we're at a run rate now of somewhere between $1.5 billion and $2 billion revenue for China.
The margin rates do tend to be better than what we see in the U.S.
and we expect that to continue over time.
In terms of revenue growth rate yes we are very much expecting and driving strong double-digit revenue growth for the foreseeable future as we continue to build our presence there.
So yes to all questions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just real quick on the pharma division the 34 bps of expansion year-over-year that looks very very good compared to what we were modeling.
Any sense as to how much of that came from Express Scripts sort of rolling off the books? Obviously that was a factor and I don't want to get too specific about how much given the competitive nature of our pricing et cetera.
But it was a driver although I don't think was the most important driver for us.
Our next question is from Robert Willoughby of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Jeff the inventory build this quarter was almost negligible relative to prior years despite a better revenue run rate than we were modeling.
How much of that was Express Scripts and more generic's or other factors? And what kind of liquidation would you expect to see over the next couple of quarters? First of all Express Scripts did have some impact on inventory obviously as we unwound that account although you have to look at it in the context of payables and receivables as well.
But if you're talking specifically about inventory yes the unwind of Express Scripts definitely had a positive impact in terms of reducing inventory for the quarter.
I think most of that unwind has happened.
I don't see any further impact from the unwind of Express Scripts influencing Q3 or Q4.
However I do see continued efforts from both Medical and Pharma to get more efficient about inventory and that effort won't change in either segment.
Research Division</strong> Don't you have a seasonal liquidation though in the current quarter and the June quarter as well? Yes we would expect that although obviously receivables and payables would move in tandem with that as well.
So -- but yes we tend to carry a fair amount of inventory at year end.
And as you said that was somewhat dampened this year because of the Express Scripts unwind but then with that inventory would tend to get liquidated in the Q3 and Q4.
I think your question was specifically about Express Scripts but more broadly yes you would see that trend.
But again keep in mind for some of the inventory that we carry at the end of the year we've also got payables for it so it doesn't necessarily all flow to the operating cash flow line.
Our next question is from Eric Coldwell of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Shifting gears a little bit to overall OpEx similar to your peers all year long and also similar to Street views current level of operating expenses were again a headwind this quarter coming in at about 16 bps higher than us in the Street as a percent of revenue.
You highlighted M&amp;A IT strategic investments et cetera.
I guess I have a 2-part question.
One can you give us the firm level OpEx net of these call outs; i.e.
would it have been flat nominally down nominally et cetera? And then number two should we be using a permanently higher SG&amp;A to sales ratio and growth rate as we look forward? Or would you expect the leverage on OpEx to reignite in fiscal '14 and beyond and maybe what the drivers are there? Yes.
Okay yes why don't you just take it Jeff? Yes so first of all for the quarter if you look at total SG&amp;A last year to this year and I'm going to talk about non-GAAP SG&amp;A.
It's up about $60 million year-on-year.
About $12 million of that is related to acquisitions about $5 million of that related to deferred compensation which is always a bit of a swing factor in a quarter that can't be forecasted related to stock market movements.
$10-plus million of that increase is related to some of our strategic initiatives including China especially in preferred products.
We've got a little over $8 million of depreciation now related to MBT that flows through each quarter.
So I mean those are the specific things I would call out.
I would say the first half of the year our growth rate in SG&amp;A was fairly robust because of those factors.
I would expect that to moderate in the second half of the year.
But I would describe the first half of the year as somewhat abnormal in terms of overall SG&amp;A growth rates.
But in terms of where it's being directed I'm actually quite happy that we're placing it in the right places.
It's growing into acquisitions which are over-performing.
It's going into our strategic priorities.
And it's going into our Medical Business Transformation which we're relying on to drive a great deal of value going forward.
So it's very carefully being apportioned throughout the organization.
Eric I would just add this is something that we actually track very carefully.
So it's not just tracking our SG&amp;A expenses but it's looking at the allocation of those expenses to the areas internal that we deem to be strategically are very relevant to us.
So we try to make sure we're not spending in areas where we don't add infrastructure and we are spending in areas where we think it can create sustainable value.
Our next question is from David Toung of Argus Research.
Yes.
Jeff I think you called out the margin contribution from the China business.
You also called out the growth in specialty from a revenue perspective.
Can you give some color into the positive contribution from specialty? Yes.
I would say we're not prepared to give the specifics on that.
The business is still ramping up.
It's still relatively a small portion of our overall profitability.
We're happy with where the revenue is going.
From a profit standpoint as we indicated in previous calls there's some dampening effect from the fact that some of our pharma services revenue that we have been benefiting from previously has dropped off from a unique situation with one of our manufacturer customers.
So that's tended to dampen the profit impact over the past few quarters.
But we remain excited about the momentum that we're gaining on the sales side and continue to be very focused on how we drive profitability from that revenue into all areas of the Specialty business but it's probably a little bit too early to comment on the specific profitability from that business.
Thank you.
I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to George Barrett for closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you.
Just thanks again to everyone for joining us this morning and we look forward to seeing all of you or at least many of you at the upcoming events and have a good day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Cardinal Health Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Sally Curley Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you Sam and welcome to our third quarter fiscal 2013 earnings conference call this morning.
Today we will be making forward-looking statements.
The matters addressed in the statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to our SEC filings and the forward-looking statements slide at the beginning of the presentation found on the Investor page of our website for a description of risks and uncertainties.
In addition we will reference non-GAAP financial measures.
Information about these measures is included at the end of the slides.
I'd also like to remind you of a few upcoming Investment Conferences and Events in which we will be webcasting notably the Bank of America Merrill Lynch 2013 Healthcare Conference at 8:40 local time on May 14 in Las Vegas and the Goldman Sachs 34th Annual Global Healthcare Conference again at 8:40 a.m.
local time on June 11 in Rancho Palos Verdes California.
The details of these events are or will be posted on the IR section of our website at cardinalhealth.com.
So please make sure to visit the site often for updated information.
We look forward to seeing some of you at the upcoming events.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Cardinal Health's Chairman and CEO George Barrett.
George? Thanks Sally.
Good morning to those of you joining the call.
We've had another strong quarter which Jeff will describe in detail in a few minutes.
Typically I devote most of my time to review the performance of the quarter just ended but this has been an extraordinary few months highlighted by 3 significant events and I'd like to spend my time today putting those events into context.
First last week we renewed a very important strategic relationship with CVS Caremark.
Second some weeks ago we announced that we would not be renewing our agreement to supply Walgreens; and third we announced during the recent quarter the acquisition of AssuraMed.
I'd like to touch on all of these.
Let me start with our recent multiyear agreement to continue to serve CVS Caremark.
CVS has been a longtime partner.
We've been privileged to play our part in helping them grow and they have continued to bring value to our business.
The presence of large customers in any portfolio requires close strategic economic and operational alignment and in our relationship with CVS we achieve those things.
Moving to Walgreens.
Our announcement that we would not renew our supply agreement followed their announcement of a plan to invest in and in combination with Alliance Boots work with AmerisourceBergen on their supply chain needs.
I'd like to give you my perspective on this.
The nonrenewal of any business is really something we or you want.
Let me be clear.
The loss of a customer the size of Walgreens even at lower margins and with high invested capital is anything but trivial.
But over this past year it had become increasingly difficult for us to align with Walgreens' direction particularly in light of their Alliance Boots acquisition.
Given this we had been preparing strategies for the future which did include Walgreens and Cardinal Health will be healthier for it in the long run.
I don't want to leave this topic just yet.
We've listened to many of your questions in recent weeks about scale and I'd like to provide a few quick comments on this.
Cardinal Health is a business of enormous scale.
Pharmaceutical Distribution alone will continue to serve 18 000 retail pharmacies as well as thousands of hospitals and clinic pharmacies in the U.S.
And biopharmaceutical companies depend on our experience and our reach to ensure that their products get to patients in the safest and most cost-effective manner possible.
We in turn depend on their innovation and commitment to patient care in serving the health care system.
It's a partnership that is clearly working and will continue to drive strong value for the foreseeable future.
On the generic side we are one of the largest generic drug purchasers in the world and will remain so and we expect that this business will continue to grow particularly as a result of the changing health care dynamics and policy direction coming from Washington.
Over these past years we have deepened our knowledge of and our ability to source products across the global network.
This has been extremely beneficial to our customers and to our margin rates.
We have the scale and the reach to move market share for our manufacturer partners and to assure best-in-class pricing for our customers.
I should point out here that none of this was affected by the Walgreens nonrenewal.
As Walgreens has been primarily a direct buyer of generics they have served largely as a backup on generics contract business.
The third important point to this conversation is the enormous strategic relevance of the move we made during this recent quarter to take a leadership position in the market that serve patients in the home with our acquisition of AssuraMed.
There are 2 overwhelming facts that without exaggeration will change health care.
First demographics don't lie.
Our population is aging living longer and more care will be delivered in the home.
That's not opinion it's math.
And second the economic realities largely driven by that demographic shift will bring pressures to treat patients in the most cost-effective setting and to keep patients from being readmitted to hospitals.
Safe high-quality care in the home will be essential to accomplishing this.
AssuraMed is an important addition to our Medical segment and to Cardinal Health as a whole.
It is a natural extension of our strategy to follow the patient throughout the continuum of care in an increasingly integrated health care system.
It leverages our experience and our scale in sourcing those products used by patients in other health care settings we serve.
It helps us support our health care system's partners who will increasingly be responsible for the patient after that patient leaves the hospital or clinic and it will support our retail provider partners who can use our platform to serve their patients in the home.
And this acquisition brings us directly in contact with the patient whether that patient is chronically ill or one requiring post-acute care.
Think about it.
More direct interaction more health care on the patients' terms suited for the patients' life.
This is an important new dimension for Cardinal Health and one which builds on our DNA and supply chain management.
We are thrilled to close the transaction and welcome Michael Petras his leadership team and all of the AssuraMed people into Cardinal Health.
The integration is already under way and going very well.
In many ways these recent events accelerate the journey we began more than 4 years ago.
This journey was focused on driving balance and growth by diversifying our portfolio of customers products and channels.
This required expanding into higher-value higher-margin settings and higher-value higher-margin products and services all on a sustainable foundation that requires rock solid alignment with our customers.
The progress we've made is significant.
Over these past 4 years we've increased our base of independent retail customers from 3 800 to nearly 7 800 and our non-bulk business now represents 70% of total pharmaceutical sales.
Our generic sales have nearly doubled.
We've increased our position at our service and product offerings in hospitals clinics surgery centers oncology urology and rheumatology practices doctors offices and now with the AssuraMed acquisition the home.
For the first time in our history wherever health care products or services are needed at any stage of the patient experience we are there for them.
We've continued to drive a preferred product portfolio in our medical segment that addresses our customers' needs for more cost-effective medical products.
And finally we've expanded into China where our unique value proposition allows us to build a strong brand enhance strategic alignment with its biopharma and medical device companies and participate in a rapidly growing Chinese health care system.
Through these efforts we have grown our non-GAAP EPS at a compounded double-digit rate deployed our capital effectively including a further 10% increase in our dividend announced today.
We've expanded our margin rates and more effectively position Cardinal Health to create value in an increasingly patient-centered health care system.
Before I close let me take a moment to put my comments into some financial context.
As you may remember when we announced the Walgreens decision on March 19 we felt that it was important to provide some early indications as to how our fiscal year 2014 might look.
At that time we provided a non-GAAP diluted earnings per share target range of $3.42 to $3.50.
We now have another month of work behind us and some additional clarity on some important moving parts.
And although our fiscal year 2014 budget is not complete yet we would now preliminarily target a number for fiscal 2014 towards the upper end of that EPS range.
And we're not sitting still.
We will serve the market with a clear sense of purpose the discipline to execute and the self-awareness to note that there are always areas where we need to get better.
I hope this gives you a bit of a window into what we're thinking and I look forward to your questions.
With that I'll turn it over to Jeff.
Thanks George and good morning everyone.
Before I get into my prepared remarks I did want to mention a big event we have coming up here.
Many of you know Kevin Moran our Manager of Investor Relations.
Well next weekend he's marrying his lovely fiance Sarah and George and I just want to take this moment to congratulate him and wish him and his future bride a long and happy marriage.
Okay back to business.
This morning I plan to review the drivers of the third quarter performance and our full fiscal 2013 outlook.
You can refer to the slide presentation posted on our website as a guide to this discussion.
Let's start with consolidated results.
We reported a 28% increase in non-GAAP earnings per share in our fiscal 2013 third quarter versus the prior year's period.
This was driven by 2 major items.
First and most importantly we achieved a robust 11% non-GAAP operating earnings growth.
Second our results also included $0.18 related to a favorable discrete tax settlement.
Excluding the $0.18 non-GAAP earnings per share grew 8.5% another very solid quarter of growth.
Let me go through the rest of the income statement in a little bit more detail starting with revenues.
Consistent with our expectations consolidated revenues were down almost 9% to $24.6 billion due to the previously announced nonrenewal of the Express Scripts contract and the continued pharmaceutical brand-to-generic conversions.
Gross margin dollars increased 7% with the rate up 77 basis points versus prior year.
We successfully expanded our year-over-year gross margin rate every quarter for the past 11 quarters reflecting a concerted effort to drive favorable customer and product mix and a focus on accelerating the growth of certain higher-margin strategic initiatives.
SG&amp;A expenses increased by 4% in Q3 with acquisitions comprising 2.6 percentage points of that increase.
We remain very focused on controlling costs while balancing our investments in key strategic priorities.
Our consolidated non-GAAP operating margin rate increased 41 basis points to 2.36%.
Interest and other expense increased versus last year's third quarter due to the funding of the AssuraMed acquisition.
Let me take a minute explain our unusual tax rate for the quarter.
We had an abnormally low non-GAAP tax rate of 25.1% in Q3 due to the favorable $64 million tax settlement I mentioned earlier.
The settlement resulted in a revaluation of our deferred tax liability and related interest on unrepatriated foreign earnings.
Please note that this amount only affects our tax line and has no impact on operating earnings or the segment results.
Without that single discrete item our tax rate for the quarter would have been 36.7% much more in line with our normal rate.
I'll discuss tax assumptions again when we talk about our total year guidance later in my prepared remarks.
Our diluted average shares outstanding were 345 million for the third quarter approximately 5 million favorable to the prior year's quarter.
Our opportunistic share repurchases during fiscal 2012 and the first quarter of fiscal 2013 continue to positively impact our share count.
Now let's discuss consolidated cash flows and the balance sheet.
We generated almost $1 billion in cash from operating activities in the quarter.
Year-to-date operating cash flow of approximately $1.4 billion is slightly ahead of where we were at this point last fiscal year despite absorbing the Express Scripts unwind which had a negative impact on net working capital.
This reflects a strong underlying performance of our businesses.
I will point out here that we do expect our fourth quarter operating cash flow to be negative due in large part to some significant tax payments we expect to be making.
This is consistent with the assumption that we've laid out for you at the beginning of the year.
Also note in Q3 we raised $1.3 billion of long-term debt at a very favorable weighted average rate of 3.1%.
The debt was used for the $2.1 billion acquisition of AssuraMed and brings our total debt balance to about $4.2 billion including both short- and long-term obligation.
At the end of Q3 we had approximately $2.3 billion in cash on our balance sheet which includes approximately $370 million held internationally.
Our working capital days ended the quarter higher than the prior year primarily driven by the exploration of the Express Scripts contract and seasonal purchasing patterns.
Now let's move to segment performance.
I'll discuss Parma first.
In line with our expectation Pharma segment revenues decreased 10% to $22.1 billion due to the expiration of the Express Scripts contract and continued brand-to-generic conversions.
This decrease was partially offset by revenues of some new customers.
Of particular note sales to non-bulk customers continued to increase up over 5% for the period.
In Q3 sales to non-bulk customers represent 70% of the segment total versus 60% in last year's Q3.
Our generic programs continue to perform well posting a revenue increase of 11% versus the prior year.
Contingent brand inflation was in the high single-digits about as we expected.
As a reminder Q3 is typically our highest quarter benefit from contingent brand inflation.
In Specialty Solutions we had revenue growth of over 60% versus last year's quarter.
Pharma segment profit increased by 12% to $498 million driven by the overall strong growth in our generics programs and performance under our branded manufacturer agreements exclusive of the volume impact.
With respect to generics we did as expected.
We left contribution from new generic launches in this year's quarter versus Q3 of fiscal 2012.
We also had steeper generic deflation sequentially from Q2 but again overall our generics program has performed very well during the quarter.
Pharma segment profit margin rate increased by 44 basis points compared to the prior year's Q3 a reflection of the strength of our generics programs and our focus on margin expansion and customer and product mix.
In addition within customer categories margin expansion in Pharma Distribution was strong across almost all of our customer classes of trade.
Finally our Nuclear business continued to make the necessary adjustments to compete effectively in a tough utilization environment.
Now moving onto medical.
Medical revenue growth was up 3% versus last year an increase of $69 million.
Acquisitions including AssuraMed and Futuremed were the primary driver of revenue growth in the quarter.
Partially offsetting the segment revenue growth was one fewer sales day in the quarter.
Like many others in the industry have noted we again saw procedural volume softness in the U.S.
market which had some moderating impact on our segment results.
Given all that we're pleased to report 12% medical segment profit growth this quarter.
Commodity pricing resulted in year-on-year favorability to our current period input costs of $12 million.
Despite the procedural trends I just mentioned we improved our preferred product mix which resulted in a positive contribution to segment profit growth in the quarter from these key products.
We saw a slight contribution from AssuraMed in the period.
Recall that we closed on March 18 so we only had 13 days of contribution to the quarter's profit.
These profit improvements were partially offset by rate compression driven in part by customer mix.
Let's talk about AssuraMed a little more.
Although it's only been part of the Cardinal Health family now for about 6 weeks we are happy to report that everything is on track.
In fact AssuraMed's integration of Invacare Supply Group is moving faster than planned and we're starting to see some of the anticipated cost synergies.
In addition the interest rate on the $1.3 billion debt issuance to fund the purchase price was at the low end of our expectations.
Accordingly we are increasingly confident in our ability to meet the accretion estimates we provided at the time we announced the deal.
I'll wrap up my review on segment performance with a comment on Cardinal Health China which spans both segments.
Cardinal Health China continued its very strong double-digit revenue growth again this quarter.
Our local direct distribution business which provides products to hospitals and retail pharmacies reported another exceptional quarter with 70% top line growth.
Turning to Slide #6 you'll see our consolidated GAAP results for the quarter which include items that reduce our GAAP results by $0.20 per share compared to non-GAAP.
Included in this figure is the exclusion of $0.10 of acquisition-related costs which reflects $0.05 of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets.
We also had $0.06 of restructuring costs and $0.04 of impairments and loss on disposal of assets both largely related to our previously announced restructuring in the medical segment.
You may recall that in Q3 of last year we had a $0.10 benefit in our GAAP results from a reduction in the fair value of the P4 Healthcare acquisition earn-out liability.
Now let's talk briefly about guidance for the current fiscal year.
Given our year-to-date fiscal 2013 results and with only one quarter remaining we are raising and tightening our non-GAAP earnings per share guidance range to $3.57 to $3.71.
Again please note that this revised range includes the $0.18 tax benefit realized in the third quarter.
With the exception of our tax rate and the recent addition of AssuraMed I would say that our overall second half consolidated result are shaping up largely as we expected with some shift in the balance between our third and fourth quarters.
Most of the underlying assumptions including our consolidated revenue guidance remain unchanged from our previous comments.
However I do want to mention a few points.
First the medical device tax impact for fiscal 2013 is now expected to be in the $8 million to $10 million range for the 6 months the law have been in effect which reflects our best estimate our best assessment of the current regulations.
From an accounting perspective this tax appears as SG&amp;A on our income statement.
Second as a reminder our new multiyear contract with CVS is in effect as of April 1 of this year and this is reflected in our forecast.
Third our revised guidance assumes a non-GAAP tax rate for the fourth quarter fiscal 2013 of approximately 37%.
However we are in the latter stages of further discussions with state and federal tax authorities on outstanding audit periods and it's difficult to predict the timing and magnitude of any outcomes but it is distinctly possible that we could have some discrete tax items positive and/or negative that may be reported as early as Q4 as a result of those discussions.
To the extent that there are significant in nature we will plan to breakout those onetime amount in future periods.
Obviously any material unusual or discrete settlements in the fourth quarter could impact our forecasted earnings per share in either direction.
My final comments regarding FY '13 assumptions are focused on AssuraMed.
We are updating the previously provided fiscal '13 guidance for amortization of acquisition-related intangibles to $120 million to include the closing of AssuraMed.
As a reminder this amount is included from our non-GAAP earnings.
Our preliminary estimates for both goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets have been added to our balance sheet as a result of this deal and the details will be included in our Form 10-Q to be filed next week.
Now a word on next year.
George mentioned our preliminary view of fiscal 2014 targeting the upper end of the $3.42 to $3.50 range we provided on March 19.
I'd like to reiterate that we are in the midst of our planning processes and we'll provide more detailed guidance during our Q4 earnings call in August.
Along the way we haven't taken the necessary actions to improve efficiency and position ourselves competitively for the future.
Finally I want to spend a few minutes on capital deployment which apply to the balance of fiscal '13 fiscal '14 and beyond.
We anticipate that the expiration of the Walgreens contract will result in a net after-tax benefit to cash flow from operating activities in fiscal 2014 of more than $500 million based on the expected working capital decrease loss after-tax earnings and other cash tax impacts.
Although it is still too early to get into all the specifics as to how we will use that amount or any other capital we'll generate next year we will remain disciplined on our capital deployment decisions.
Our goals remain the same as they have for the past 4 years.
Our first 2 priorities are investing to sustain growth in our existing businesses and growing the dividend at least in line with long-term non-GAAP EPS growth.
In his latter regard as George mentioned our board has approved another increase in our dividend taking the quarterly amount up by 10% to $0.3025 per share effective with the July payment.
This quarterly dividend per share is over 40% higher than the dividend paid in April of 2012.
Today's announcement brings our dividend yield to approximately 2.8% based on our current stock price.
Beyond these priorities we will continue to evaluate other deployment options including acquisitions and share repurchases in a balanced manner to optimize the shareholder return sustainable growth and our credit position.
I fully expect that we'll be buying back at least $250 million of shares in the coming months and we'll continue to assess additional opportunities.
With that let's begin Q&amp;A.
Operator please take our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Steven Valiquette of UBS.
Research Division</strong> So I guess the updated earnings outlook's definitely helpful and reassuring.
I guess I'm also just curious on your preliminary thoughts on the generic pipeline outlook as it lines up with your fiscal '14.
Maybe compare and contrast that with what we're seeing in the current fiscal year.
Sure Steve I'll take it.
This is George.
Yes I think we've mentioned this before and we're a few months further along and maybe have a little more color.
But here's what we'll say at this stage at sort of the macro level.
When we're looking at generic launch value I would probably say with our fiscal years '13 is probably greater than '14.
'15 still early to tell.
I would say right now it doesn't look all that different than '14 sort of plus or minus.
So that would be the quick very high-level perspective at this stage Steve.
Research Division</strong> Is fiscal '13 coming in better than what you thought previously and that's why when you think about '14 and what you said there that's -- it's really more of the delta on '13 that's changing? Is that the way to kind of think about that? Yes so as you know in generics there's so many moving parts.
'13 is probably coming in a little stronger than we modeled and '14 probably not all that different.
But I think again there's a few little moving parts that can swing these numbers.
So you know that's part of the business that's -- it has some -- takes some forward-looking that is not always perfect but that's our overall perspective at this stage.
Our next question comes from John Ransom of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Would you mind just recapping? You said the back half of fiscal '13 was lined up how you thought but maybe some earnings were pushed into the March quarter over the June quarter.
Could you just recap what the key drivers were of that? Yes.
John it's Jeff.
I'll take that.
Yes as I said overall the second half of the year is largely coming out on a consolidated basis as we expected back earlier in the year when we put together our guidance and our forecasts with the 2 exceptions that I called.
One was the tax settlement that we realized in Q3 and the second was the addition of AssuraMed which didn't happen until March when it closed.
But beyond that it is largely playing out as we expected with some slight shift between probably from Q4 to Q3.
And I would say that's largely due to the rate of brand inflation that we saw in Q3 and that impacted our contingent buy margin.
It was probably a little bit higher than we expected and perhaps a slight shift from Q4 to Q3.
I would say that was primarily the major factor that resulted in a bit of a shift.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I jumped on a little bit late so I may have missed this.
But is there any commentary -- there's been a lot of talk in the market about oncology and the sequester? Has there -- anything notable in your oncology businesses as a result of the sequester? Yes John it's George.
We've got very limited exposure at this point.
So the sequestration certainly has been a material issue for the oncology and specialty community but reimbursement pressures have been sort of building over this past year so it's not a particularly new thing.
But for us again our model is a little bit different.
We've been sort of focusing on sort of a different different approach and as you know working very heavily at sort of this collaborative effort between the payers and providers to create value and alignment there.
So our direct exposure to that sequestration impact is somewhat limited.
Our next question comes from John Kreger of William Blair.
This is Robbie Fatta in for John today.
First a quick question on the Medical Business Transformation initiative which I don't think we heard much about in the prepared comments.
What was the impact this quarter and what do you think the benefit to 2014 might be at this point? Yes Robbie thanks for the question.
One of the reasons we didn't talk a whole lot about it is because the medical system that we implemented last year is now very much integrated into the overall business and really the focus now is we'll continue to optimize our use of it and using it as a platform to grow other parts of the business.
But that all said from a pure financial standpoint it was slightly positive in Q3 in terms of the year-on-year impact of the implementation including the impacts of depreciation netted against the benefit that we realized.
Year-to-date the benefit -- combined benefit is slightly negative reflecting particularly Q1 when we had some issues related to change management that we're addressing.
For the full year of fiscal 2013 we're still targeting for it to be a net positive for the medical segment.
And then I would say going into fiscal '14 I won't give specific numbers but we do expect to continue to drive the benefit from the transformation.
But again it's less about getting the system to work which is it at this point and that's largely behind us.
That is behind us.
It's about now using the system to drive for example increased penetration of preferred products with our customers to bring down inventory levels to optimize pricing.
So we do expect a significant benefit heading into 2014.
Great.
And one other one if I may.
You made a couple of comments on capital deployment and now you mentioned the buyback as part of the overall deployment strategy.
Can you talk about how aggressive you might be with a buyback like that? Could you do something perhaps accelerate it or is that not really in the cards? As we look to implement our share buybacks we consider all options and look at what make sense from a timing and execution standpoint.
I never want to get too specific about mechanisms or timing.
Obviously you never want to total -- totally signal to the market when you're going to be in the market buying back shares but I will reiterate what I said that we do expect to buyback at least $250 million worth of shares in the coming months and that expectation is reflected in our targeted guidance for next year.
Our next question comes from Robert Jones of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's Stephan Stewart calling for Bob.
Just wanted to follow-up on that share buyback comment.
Is that $250 million the only thing contemplated in next year's guidance from a buyback perspective? Well first of all just to reiterate overall from a capital deployment perspective there's a number of things that we have looked at and will continue to look at.
Obviously we've got a significant increase in the dividend which as I said in my prepared remarks once it's paid in July will represent a per share payment that's more than 40% above what the April 2012 payment was.
I would say that's a significant decision with respect to our capital deployment and one that we remain very committed to.
We'll continue to invest appropriately in the CapEx in the business.
So we've got some important priorities we'll continue to support and that investment will continue.
And then beyond that we continue to look at the balance between acquisitions in select strategic areas and share repo and I would say both of those will be looked in a balanced and opportunistic way.
Regarding the repo yes I use the words at least $250 million worth because again depending on market conditions and cash availability et cetera it's always possible that we could do more but the reference to at least $250 million is sort of the assumption that's implicit in our guidance for next year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just broadly on the medical segment you did highlight customer mix.
I know it's an ongoing theme but can you maybe expand on that a bit and how much of an impact it's having on your rate compression? Yes I would say it's probably been the biggest factor in our rate compression for the past couple of quarters.
I'll give you a very specific example of that.
Our Department of Defense contract both -- the overall volumes but I would say the types of volumes that we're getting in terms of orders from the Department of Defense are significantly different than both of what we were expecting and even what we realized last year and that's obviously driven in a significant part from the fact that we've had a troop withdrawal from the wars that were going on in Afghanistan and Iraq.
And that's changed the mix and the type of customers within the Department of Defense that we're servicing and the products that we're providing.
So that's one specific example and I would say a fairly big driver of that mix.
Our next question comes from Eric Coldwell of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I want to hit on preferred products in medical.
I know recently you said the mix was around I think 24%.
I was hoping we could get an update on that.
And also if you could update us on your recent moves in say orthopedics or cardiovascular.
Last night on the GPO's call there was a confirmation of the increasing commoditization of what were previously considered only to be physician-preference items purchases customers being more flexible et cetera.
I'm just curious if you can give some updates on what you're doing as you move up the value chain there? Eric I think what we'll do is Jeff will reply to the first part of the question and I'll jump in with a little bit on the second.
Yes.
Just to fine-tune the figure that you quoted Eric I think what we said most recently is the preferred products make up about 23% of the medical segment revenues.
That was exclusive of AssuraMed.
I would say in the recent quarters that number continues to creep up as we begin to fully integrate AssuraMed and use our product portfolio and sourcing abilities to drive some of our products -- medical products through AssuraMed.
Hopefully that percentage will increase as well.
But I would say it's still generally around that 23% level perhaps a little bit higher based on the last couple of months.
George? Yes and Eric on the broader question I think we'd concur with the observation that you heard which is that there is a growing awareness that part of what we see in medical devices is relatively commoditized.
And there's a lot of attention throughout the health care system looking at what they call the physician-preferred items.
So again the providers are under tremendous cost pressure and so our ability to bring them cost-effective alternative is really important.
For us the starting point has been orthopedics and particularly in the trauma area.
So we're talking about things like cannulated screws and drill bits and guide wires and then supporting services that complement that.
That's been part of our initial launch again in collaboration with EMERGE which we launched about a year ago.
So that's going very well.
We're getting a lot of really positive response from customers.
So again I think we'd concur with that observation.
And I think this is going to an ongoing trend if you think about again where that bar sits on physician preference items and obviously we're talking very regularly now with our health care system partners on this.
Our next question comes from Lisa Gill of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of follow-up questions.
First George you talked about CVS and a long-term partnership.
Is there any changes in your new contract versus what services you provided them before? Yes Lisa.
We're going to be somewhat limited as to what we can say regarding that relationship.
I would say that we have a very deep and broad relationship with CVS Caremark and we're really excited about continuing that.
So the exact dimensions of that the exact lines of business we can't fully share but we're longtime partners very very creative in looking to each other to find ways of creating value.
Research Division</strong> And then you also made a comment around scale because clearly the street has been very focused on this whole idea of scale and what the new Walgreens Alliance Boots AmerisourceBergen relationship brings.
Do you believe that you need to have some kind of international partner in order to gain scale? And maybe can you just talk from your point of view how manufacturers look at this? Is there a point of diminishing return that you're at a certain size and this is the discounts we're willing to give and if you're 10% bigger than that the -- it's not 10% incremental savings.
How do I think about that? Yes Lisa that's a really good question.
There's a lot in that one and I'm going to be somewhat careful in my reply.
Here's what I would say again scale has to be actionable very important.
So again having lived on the manufacturer's side I'm really looking for someone who can do the job for me in market and that's a really important dynamic.
So this has different dimensions on the branded side and on the generics.
So on the branded side what I'm looking for is manufacturers to make sure that my partner can represent my products and get them in and into patients the most cost-effective way.
On the generics side it has a little bit of a different dimension to it.
But again as I said and I think this is really important our scale today is really significant and so again I would say this I've learned over a lot of years never to be dismissive of a competitor or another industry move.
That's not a smart thing to do but we've studied this pretty carefully and we feel very comfortable with our scale our ability to work with a global system and our ability to make markets for our customers.
So obviously we'll be staying close to this and it's early days.
Our next question comes from Tom Gallucci of Lazard.
Research Division</strong> I guess I had 2 questions in the MedSurg area.
Firstly you mentioned the positive impact of commodities in the quarter after it had been a little bit of a drag in the last couple of years.
How do we sort of line up Jeff on a year-over-year basis as we think about the next few quarters? And then the other question was just around reform.
Obviously you mentioned the medical device tax but George just curious if you had any comments about how you're thinking about the impact of reform on that market? Do you expect volume acceleration or any other things that we should be thinking about? Tom it's Jeff.
Thanks for the question.
I'll go first and then turn it over to George.
Yes so for Q4 we expect the positive impact from commodity prices to be relatively small.
Current estimate's sort of in the 4-ish million-dollar range of positive impact year-on-year in Q4.
Then heading into next year based on forward curves of the various chemicals that we buy et cetera it's a slight negative a slight headwind next year but we're probably talking in the 10-ish million-dollar range.
So at this point not a huge swing factor.
Obviously that could change quickly particularly based on where oil prices move but again right now it's about a $4 million positive impact in Q4 and next year it's like negative to the tune of maybe $10 million or so.
Tom I'll jump in on the second one which is a little bit harder to answer related to the Affordable Care Act and how that's unfolding.
Here's what I would say to you we're not building into our models additional volume.
That doesn't mean that it may not happen or it's not likely to happen.
We just at this stage do not know how to model that.
There's a lot of issues still in front of us on the roll out of the act.
Obviously 2014 is a key year.
We're going to have to see how the exchanges are playing out and how that access issue really plays out.
And so for us I think we just felt it was more cautious just not to model-in any additional volume based on it but obviously we'll be staying very close to it and as you can imagine we're quite active in Washington.
Our next question comes from Ricky Goldwasser of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 follow-up questions here.
First of all on CVS I understand you can't provide much detail.
But just to clarify you said that the impact from the renewal is embedded in the implied guidance for fourth quarter and then is it also included on your fiscal year '14 initial target of being at the high end of the $3.42 to $3.50? Yes Ricky it's reflected in both.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when we think about the -- just the sequential delta between the -- what you reported in the third quarter versus the fourth quarter obviously you have kind of a brand price inflation benefit there et cetera but should we think about that sequential step down as CVS as part of it as being CVS and can we just take that and factor it into '14? Again I'm always a little bit hesitant to get too specific on pricing with any particular customer but yes the repricing that we put in place for CVS does take effect April 1 and you can assume that continues into FY '14 at about the same rate.
Now obviously you're focused on CVS.
There's lots of other factors into our Q4 numbers and next year's numbers but with regards to that specific one I think you got the answer.
Our next question comes from Glen Santangelo of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> George just 2 quick ones for you.
First looking at the industry over the last 18 months there's clearly been a lot of noise on the contracting front and the market seems to be very nervous with each sort of -- with these situations.
And while I get it there seems to be a unique story around each one of these contracts in kind of why they're moving.
Is there sort of a bigger picture conclusion that we should be drawing because clearly it follows a very extended period of time where we never have these conversations? And so if you can give us your assessment of the pricing environment and is there anything sort of significant in your book coming up in the next year or 2 that you're focused on that would be helpful.
Yes Glen let me -- the second part the last part of it there's nothing that we would call out in the near-term horizon.
Going back to your beginning observation here's what I would say I'm not sure I completely agree that this is not a conversation that's happened before and again during my tenure here big contract renewals get big attention and we understand that.
So I don't think I would say -- now obviously there's been a big industry move in these last few months so let's not dismiss that.
But independent of that dynamic I'm not sure I would characterize the market as materially different.
It is true that actually every contract has discrete characteristics very unique terms lines of business.
So for us contracts like CVS Caremark and Walgreens were very large contracts.
I think it's understandable that they would get a lot of attention and -- but I would not say that that alters the day-to-day dynamics that we see in the marketplace if that's helpful.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe if I can just ask one follow-up on AssuraMed.
It kind of sounds like you're very positive on the fundamentals with the demographic shifts et cetera.
It also sounds like the integration's going very well but from the market's perspective I think there's been some incremental concerns that potentially this acquisition exposes the company to some different sort of regulatory or reimbursement environment that it hasn't had that historical exposure.
And so I'm just kind of curious if now that you've been living with the acquisition for a little bit is there a way that you can sort of sum up what you think the potential reimbursement exposure is whether it be competitive bidding or more direct government reimbursement? And how should we think about that risk when thinking about the growth of this acquisition? Sure.
Yes Glen as you can imagine when we did our analysis we thought very carefully about the dynamic around reimbursement and we adjusted for that in our modeling as we approached this business.
That's number one.
Number two our exposure on diabetes DNE for example is very limited.
So this business has very carefully positioned itself to limit exposure in areas that were particularly heated and we feel very good about our positioning there.
Again it's an opportunity to really be in a market-leading position in a segment that we know is going to grow and we're going to have to be very very efficient doing our work but I would say today our exposure to those dynamics are somewhat limited.
Our next question comes from Ross Muken of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> George it's obviously been a bumpy last 6 7 months or so and that comes off of a period where you did a lot of transformational things for the business.
As we think about sort of what AssuraMed brings now to the asset group and sort of how the mix at least on a profit basis is sort of shifting I realize you're still have a very big very powerful profitable Pharma business but the complexion of the asset seems to be going in sort of the opposite direction and just in terms of where at least you're looking to acquire.
And so when we think about Cardinal going forward I mean do you feel like the historical view of what this asset was is still kind of what the future view is going to be? Or do you feel like we're moving into some of these growthier maybe higher-margin areas and so the mix and complexion over time is probably to change? So Ross a really good question.
For me this not about going in the opposite direction.
It's not a departure from a business.
It's sort of a turning of the wheel a little bit an expansion of business.
We are very proud to have a market-leading distribution business.
It's an important anchor for us in the Health System.
It allows us to touch every part of the system and we'll continue to invest in it and make sure it's vibrant and healthy.
Having said that we do think that there's evolution in markets and it's very important for us to evolve with it and ideally ahead of it to see what's in front of us.
And so the decision to move into the AssuraMed business really was thoughtful and it wasn't just about an exciting healthy business.
It was about direction of the market that is inescapable that care is going to be shifting.
We want to be in a position to deliver our products and perhaps services into those markets.
Our business of distribution today is heavily wrapped in a service component.
So I'm not -- I wouldn't describe this as a departure or moving in the opposite direction.
We've seen ourselves and I think you've heard me describe this as a broad-based health services company.
I will continue to articulate it in that way and we're excited about the movement but we're very keen on driving our core business and making sure that we're doing a good job for our customers.
Research Division</strong> Yes I'll ask this in sort of in a delicate way.
If you look at the stock price it's obviously been flattish now for some time and I'm sure you're kind of disappointed with sort of the performance but a lot of it is actually sort of a compression in the multiple versus your peers.
And so as you think about sort of what the market is implying on your future growth despite the fact you've sort of raised the dividend consistently which has sort of been a positive bias for the market what do you think the disconnect is? And when you sort of look forward to the kind of growth profile of this asset now that we've gotten through this period of kind of customer attrition once we get past that difficult '14 comp how do you think about sort of the free cash or the free cash potential or sort of the growth potential of the pro forma asset once we get through that? So let me try to go back to the beginning.
It's always tricky to be commenting on how people view your stock price so I'll give it some care but here's what I'd say.
There's no question that it has been a very noisy last 6 months with large customer renewals and as you know an extra ordinary amount of chatter about how that was going to play out or not play out and some big industry moves.
So we understood that that affect has affected the way people saw us for a while.
We now are through that period and as I said towards the end of my comments earlier our track record at this point is pretty clear and the progress I think has been pretty consistent.
We are very optimistic about the future and positioned really well to drive value in a system unfolding in a lot of different ways.
So as I said the last 6 months have certainly been -- or 9 months have certainly been noisy around these industry events and certainly around our renewals.
But I feel very excited about our positioning in medical business around China around our generics offering about our growing position in specialty and around the opportunity now to bring value to the home.
We have a unique value proposition to our customers and our ability to touch so many products so many lines of business and so many of those channels is really important.
So I feel very good about that and I'll leave it with that.
Our next question comes from Rob Willoughby of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> George can you possibly speak to some of the opportunities you see to expand AssuraMed sales channels? Can you do more with the CVS and is the Walgreens maybe out of the picture in this respect? Bob so again I'll be a little bit careful about what we can do with whom.
I will say this the business we acquired has performed very well.
We're excited about it but we also see this as a platform.
We have already been working in areas -- for example our oncology team is in offices.
Those offices needs support and medical supplies.
We're able to think about how to link that together.
We're in urological offices.
We have to then be able to follow that patient to the home with supplies.
So we see the opportunity to link into our specialty business.
We see the opportunity to support our retailers many of whom have loyal customer followings that need products in the home and they use us for fulfillment.
We see products expansion opportunities here.
And so we do see it as more of a base.
Now our early priority right now is making sure the integration is going perfectly and that we're executing but we see this probably in bigger dimensions than the business that we acquire.
Our next question comes from Charles Rhyee of Cowen and Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Another question on the medical I think last quarter Jeff you called out I think it was a $5 million in prior period gains recorded in the quarter.
Can you give us an update? Was there any type of prior period adjustments that were recorded here in this quarter? I'll start there.
Yes thanks for the question Charles.
No there were no out-of-period adjustments of any note in our Q3.
I think we cleaned up most of the issues we needed to in Q1 and Q2.
As we sort of went through the implementation and went back to make sure that everything was ticking in tying exactly right there was a little bit of clean up in Q1 and Q2.
But at this point I believe that's behind us so there were no further adjustments in Q3.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the distribution side obviously a very strong performance in the margin much better than we had expected in the growth -- sorry EBIT growth.
All of your competitors have talked about tough sort of generic comps given last year.
You had Zyprexa and Lipitor.
I mean is that -- did you face that same sort of tough comp issue there? And what were some of the things that helped you kind of get over that? Yes I'm sure we did face many of those same issues and from a generic launch perspective this Q3 was less than last year's Q3.
But I think the fact that we still grew generics 11% and posted the type of profit performance and margin expansion that we saw in Q3 is a testament to the strength of our overall generics portfolio and the Pharma Distribution business.
As we've often said clearly we have to try to forecast generic launch impacts et cetera et cetera but the goal here is not to rely on the launch impact.
It's to build a large growing sustainable generics business that can drive value well beyond initial launch period for a generic.
And I think you're seeing an example of that in our Q3 where our sales performance our penetration our generic sourcing efforts are all contributing to a very robust portfolio that can sustain growth even with the ups and downs of generic launches.
Our next question comes from David Larsen of Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> This is Chris Abbott in for Dave.
I'm looking at your pharmaceutical operating margins and you obviously posted some strong growth this quarter.
As we think of the large customers rolling off you've now transitioned Express Scripts and you've obviously got Walgreens coming up next year.
Does that take a few quarters to kind of fully optimize the expense structure? I mean was there more sort of benefit to the margin this quarter than last or was it really more about generic launches? Yes I would say -- if you're talking specifically about Express Scripts I would say there was very little if any incremental expense impact operating expense impact in Q3 versus Q2.
We had largely made whatever adjustments we needed to make in the Q2 period so that was not a driving factor in Q3.
Regarding Walgreens clearly until the contract ends we will service that business to the best of our ability and would never take any actions to jeopardize that.
Obviously once that runs out at the end of August we'll begin taking the necessary actions to reduce the variable expenses associated with that and then certain fixed expenses in the company as well.
But that will happen beginning after August 31 and you'll see the impact of that really in Q2 of next year.
Our last question comes from George Hill of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Kind of following up on the generic -- I'm sorry on the drug distribution performance in the quarter looks pretty strong.
Can you -- when you think about the margin improvements can you give us any color on how much of it was performance in the generic programs how much of it was customer mix how much of it was just underlying business mix brand versus generic that kind of led to the improvement? Yes I'm not going to break it out specifically.
I would say it is across the board.
I think the generics performance and performance under our branded contracts excluding the volume impact those are the 2 biggest factors that we called out and they drove the biggest year-on-year improvement.
But I would say everything you mentioned was a factor.
Obviously not having Express Scripts versus last year improves the margins just given the size of that account and the relatively low margin nature of the bulk business.
I would say -- but even beyond that our overall customer and product mix has continued to improve.
So they all drove it but the 2 biggest factors were generics and branded margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then George just maybe a strategic question.
I suspect with given some of the changes that are going on in the market we're going to hear about volatility in the channel in the highly profitable independent pharmacist channel.
Can you talk about the stickiness of those customers especially as we think of who's the real independent and who's the franchisee of the 3 large wholesalers? I don't think the franchisee guys are not likely to bounce around a lot.
The independents might be more likely to bounce.
I guess can you provide us a little more color into that market especially the franchisees versus the non-franchisees? Yes George it's a good question that requires really some segmentation.
This is a very large pool of customers and what we've learned and part of the reason I think we've gotten better at serving them is to recognize it's not a one-size-fits-all.
You have some independent pharmacy and pharmacy groups that really have tied in closely to your services.
They see high value in them.
We're a very very close partner and stickiness is quite high.
There are other parts of the market that are much much transactional...
[Technical Difficulty] Yes guys I think we reconnected and for those of you who are still on the call George Hill asked a question about the independents and given the dynamics of the market how do we see that playing out and a little bit about the stickiness.
And my observation was that this is a market that actually has many subcomponents and part of the reason I think that we've done very well in recent years is to understand that is to target the unique needs of different sub-segments of the independent market.
So some of them work as groups of independents with high service requirements.
We're very targeted to addressing those needs and then there are independents that tend to be -- move much more frequently.
I would say we've experienced very good stickiness in our customer base of independents and I think the better that we do of understanding the unique needs of each of those independents the greater the stickiness is.
I would also add that things like the acquisition of AssuraMed that allows us to go to them with yet another service offering to say "Look we can help you do fulfillment with your patients who need products in the home." That just enhances our value proposition with them.
So again we feel very good about the stickiness here.
But again I would argue that there are subsets inside that large group of independents and hopefully that answers it.
And hopefully some of you are still on the call.
To the extent that you are I thank all of you for being here and look forward to seeing many of you at the upcoming conferences.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Cardinal Health Q4 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Sally Curley Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you Marcy.
Thank you everyone and welcome to Cardinal Health's fourth quarter fiscal 2013 earnings conference call.
Today we will be making forward-looking statements.
The matters addressed in the statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to the SEC filings and the forward-looking statements slide at the beginning of the presentation which can be found on our Investor page of our website for a description of risks and uncertainties.
In addition we will reference the non-GAAP financial measures.
Information about these measures is included at the end of the slides.
I'd also like to remind you of a few upcoming investment conferences and events in which we will be webcasting notably the Morgan Stanley Global Healthcare Conference in New York on September 9 and the 2013 Baird's Healthcare Conference in New York on September 10.
In addition we will be hosting an Investor Day on December 10.
Details will be forthcoming by special invitation.
For those who did not receive an invitation to attend in person based on limited seating we will be webcasting the event so that everyone has a chance to participate live.
The details of these webcasted events are or will be posted on the IR section of our website at cardinalhealth.com so please make sure to visit the site often for updated information.
We look forward to seeing you at an upcoming events.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO George Barrett.
George? Thanks Sally and good morning.
I think it's safe to say that this has been a full year for all of us at Cardinal Health concluding with a strong fourth quarter.
And for the year we exceeded virtually all of our financial goals.
Our non-GAAP operating earnings were up 10% to $2 billion.
Our non-GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $3.73 up a robust 16%.
This included a favorable tax settlement of $0.18 per share in the third quarter.
In addition our organization did a great job of driving capital efficiency generating $1.7 billion in cash from operations for the year.
We returned over $800 million to shareholders in fiscal 2013 through both our differentiated dividend and share buybacks.
We finished our fiscal 2013 with financial strength scale a strong customer and product portfolio and a deep bench of organizational talent and we accelerated the strategic repositioning we began several years ago.
Based on all of these dimensions and in a time of great change within the industry it was an excellent year.
Over the past few years you've heard me say that healthcare is an incredibly exciting place to be.
I feel the same today as we've closed out another fiscal year but it's with a clearer sense of what is going to make it exciting.
We are in the early stages of an unprecedented demographic wave which is bringing nearly 10 000 people per day to eligibility age for Medicare.
Even if we put aside the political implications surrounding that reality the fact is that we have an aging population many of whom suffer from at least one chronic illness and whose life expectancy has already increased by nearly 9 years in less than half a century as a result of medical innovation and the needs of this population will only increase over their lifetime.
We have built our strategies and our actions around 5 key principles: first demographic economic and industry forces will require a healthcare system which places a high priority on efficiency and cost-effectiveness; second care will need to be more coordinated and delivered in multiple settings leaning towards those settings which are most cost-effective; third people will want and need care in the home and they will become increasingly knowledgeable and involved in their own healthcare; fourth our healthcare system will need continued innovation of pharmaceutical and medical products but also cost-effective alternatives to mature products; and fifth as part of the system shift from fee-for-service to payment-for-outcomes hospitals and IDNs will increasingly look to partners with specialized expertise in this new environment.
With that as a backdrop I'll provide further color on our 2013 performance.
Our Pharmaceutical segment delivered another strong year of profit growth and margin expansion while growing our customer base expanding our generic programs and broadening our specialty offerings to providers biopharmaceutical companies and payers and I'll touch on all of these.
We've also been making the appropriate organizational and strategic adjustments in anticipation of the end of the Walgreen contract which expires on August 31.
We are of course pleased to have renewed our supply agreement with CVS.
And this combined with other customer renewals and wins and with outstanding work by our Pharmaceutical Distribution team have strengthened and diversified our customer portfolio.
We completed the acquisition and integration of Dik Drug adding to our independent pharmacy base while we strengthened our position with hospitals and institutional pharmacies.
We expect pharmaceutical demand to increase in the coming years.
This is among the most efficient components of our U.S.
healthcare system.
And from a value standpoint our system gets high returns in outcomes from the 10% of healthcare spend which goes toward drug costs.
Our evolving product mix in our Pharma segment closely aligns with the trends in the pharmaceutical industry.
Generic drugs are assuming a greater position in the overall pharmaceutical pie with each passing year now accounting for 83% of total U.S.
prescriptions.
We've grown our position and our scale in generics and we work closely with generic companies around the world to bring value to them and to the market.
This has been a strong contributor to our overall Pharmaceutical segment profit margin expansion of around 30 basis points for both the fourth quarter and for the year.
At the same time we realize that an increasing portion of pharmaceutical research and innovation is going into specialty drugs which address unique medical needs.
Further biopharmaceutical companies are studying and targeting smaller subsets of patients who need to be served in an integrated and high-touch way.
Supporting this our Specialty Solutions group has continued its steep revenue growth.
Our confidence continues to grow that a valuable approach to working with providers of care biopharma companies and payers to encourage that these drugs are delivered and used in a patient-centered model and one which acknowledges the need for cost-effectiveness.
Before I leave the Pharma segment I'm sure you saw in our press release that we're taking a substantial impairment charge associated with our Nuclear Pharmacy Services division.
Jeff will discuss this in more detail but let me say that Nuclear Pharmacy had contributed almost $1.6 billion to the company's profits over the past decade.
But the change in demand dynamics for a number of these products has resulted in a lowering of its future financial output.
Accordingly we recorded a goodwill impairment charge to reflect our analysis of the estimated fair value of the business.
I should remind you that we are the industry leader in this business and we will continue to work closely with our large and broad base of customers who depend on our radiopharmaceutical products and our expertise in this field.
2013 was a very important year for our Medical segment.
We took significant steps in repositioning this business to align with the evolving marketplace including completing major investments to rebuild our IT infrastructure reorganizing and redeploying our assets both human and capital and ramping up activities in areas of strategic priority which I'll detail in a moment.
And of course we completed the very significant acquisition of AssuraMed which enables us for the first time to follow the patient to their home.
These efforts led to margin expansion of 25 basis points and double-digit segment profit growth for fiscal 2013 for the Medical segment.
We've been very clear that we place a high priority on anticipating the changes in our marketplace and on taking the actions necessary to continue to deliver value to hospitals IDNs and alternative sets of care as well as to our manufacturing partners.
We've reconfigured our go-to-market model and our offerings so that we can work with medical device and lab equipment companies and with providers to get products to patients more efficiently and throughout the continuum of care.
The acquisition of AssuraMed was a major step in that direction.
Over time more care will be delivered in the home.
All of us are likely to experience this directly ourselves or with members of our family.
And integrated healthcare systems and payers alike recognize that patients who are well cared for at home are less likely to be readmitted to the hospital.
So we're excited about the acquisition of AssuraMed.
The integration is going extremely well and it's exceeding our expectations.
Our efforts around our preferred product portfolio address the continuing need for lower-cost alternatives to mature medical devices and our activities in this area accelerated during the year increasing overall penetration and opening the opportunity for greater growth.
This past year we've broadened the reach of the portfolio by adding over 150 products in 9 categories.
As it relates to medical utilization we've now seen a somewhat sustained period of soft utilization in the U.S.
market.
We've all heard the debates around whether this is the result of consumer caution a byproduct of our slow recovery from recession or a more structural slowing of utilization linked to changes in benefit design and incentive systems and a more consumer-like patient.
I'm not sure that we can really be precise in answering that debate but we do believe that while these trends will tend to moderate per capita utilization the inescapable and overwhelming force of demographics will continue to be a driver of overall growth for our business in the long term and the composition of our product and service lines should give us the opportunity to grow our profits even in a slow-growth short-term environment.
Many of these same healthcare forces are at work in other markets and we recognize the opportunity to expand our healthcare expertise.
Specifically in China we've been using our capabilities scale and unique value proposition to build a strong and sustainable reputation and enhance our strategic alignment of biopharma and medical device companies essential to participating successfully and for the long term in this rapidly growing healthcare system.
This year our revenues in China grew 45% reaching $2 billion.
We're tremendously excited by the opportunities to broaden the scope of our business model to match the needs of that market and to support our manufacturer partners who want to grow their businesses there.
So with this as a backdrop let me put some context around our expectations for 2014.
For the Pharmaceutical segment we expect revenues to decline in fiscal 2014 primarily due to the expiration of the Walgreen contract.
That said you will see a continued emphasis on building generic scale and capabilities as we further enhance our ability to move market share for our manufacturer partners and to assure best-in-class availability of quality and pricing for our customers.
This should continue to drive both generics' profitability and our overall segment margin due to utilization customer and product mix and our program strength.
We also see opportunities to grow both our specialty and biopharma businesses through innovation and new business models that create additional value for providers and manufacturers who focus on high-touch high-cost disease areas.
This will include the continued introduction of new technology solutions such as our PathWare tool that along with payer and physician collaboration can create standardized clinical pathways to improve the quality and the cost of caring for patients with complex diseases.
We will continue to strengthen our offerings to our independent pharmacy customers in fiscal 2014.
We're starting the year off with a gathering of thousands of owners and pharmacists at a retail business conference next week.
The focus is on sharing best practices networking continuing education and providing the latest tools and technologies available to help these critical members of the healthcare system improve their patient -- improve patient care efficiency and profitability of their businesses.
And we will increasingly bring our experience to hospital systems who can benefit from our expertise in clinical pharmacy.
Switching to our Medical segment.
Our ability to serve across the continuum of care with a broad line of products and services has never been more important.
We are working closely with our diverse set of customers and manufacturers to help them thrive in a changing landscape.
Our preferred products portfolio will be ramping up.
And throughout fiscal year 2014 you will see accelerated new product introductions designed to bring quality value and enhance clinical benefits to our customers.
We know there are significant opportunities to increase our services to hospitals ambulatory settings and the home and we will be aggressively pursuing the cross-enterprise opportunities which leverage the AssuraMed acquisition and our supply chain management expertise.
In summary our Medical segment brings many tools to drive efficiency for our partners whether it's a unique 3PL supply chain offering or a specialized surgical kit which reduces movement around the operating room in the likelihood of a safety event; or a set of offerings geared toward systems which are focused on increasing healthcare coordination; or a lower cost alternative to a trauma product; or now with AssuraMed our ability to adjust patient needs in the home we are positioning our Medical segment for growth.
In China we look for another year of strong revenue and profit growth as we continue to expand our geographic footprint in 2014 and add new business partnerships and programs in areas like consumer health and direct-to-patient distribution.
Cardinal Health as a brand will become more important not only to healthcare providers but to consumers as well as we continue to grow our direct-to-patient specialty pharmacy business there.
We believe we have already both strong equity as a trusted partner a partner who can offer strong and compliant business practices that are critical in this transforming marketplace.
So putting this all together given our ongoing momentum we are projecting fiscal 2014 non-GAAP diluted EPS in the range of $3.45 to $3.60 an increase from our initial expectations we provided earlier this spring.
So we turn the page on fiscal 2013 a year that was anything but ordinary one which we regard as an important inflection point in our strategic and competitive position.
I want to express my appreciation for all of our colleagues all 34 000 of them and to our customers our manufacturer partners and our shareholders who have supported us through a year which had more than its share of twists and turns but from which we emerged stronger and more confident in our future.
I'll end with a reminder that the notion of being essential to care is not just a tagline to us it's what drives us.
And with that I'll hand the call over to Jeff to provide more details on the quarter and the full year and guidance for fiscal '14.
Thanks George and good morning everyone.
This morning I will review the drivers of fourth quarter and full year performance.
Then I'll provide additional detail on our fiscal '14 guidance including some of our key expectations and underlying assumptions.
You can refer to the slide presentation posted on our website as a guide to this discussion.
I'll start with consolidated results for the quarter.
We reported an 8% increase in non-GAAP earnings per share in our fiscal 2013 fourth quarter versus the prior year's period.
This was driven by a robust 11% non-GAAP operating earnings growth partially offset by a higher tax rate and additional interest expense.
Let me go through the rest of the income statement in a little more detail starting with revenues.
Consolidated revenues were down 5% to $25.4 billion which was better than our expectations.
The decline was due to the expiration of the Express Scripts contract at the beginning of Q2 of this fiscal year.
Gross margin dollars increased 10% with a rate up 66 basis points versus prior year.
As a result of our strategic initiatives including our efforts to drive favorable customer and product mix we have successfully expanded our year-over-year gross margin rate every quarter for the past 3 years.
SG&amp;A expenses rose 9% in Q4 driven by recent acquisitions which comprised 6.1 percentage points of this growth and investments in certain strategic priorities.
Due to our continued focus on cost controls and efficiency of our operations our core SG&amp;A costs were essentially flat versus last year.
Our consolidated non-GAAP operating margin rate increased 27 basis points to 1.86%.
You will notice that our net interest and other expense came in higher in the fourth quarter than in prior quarters primarily due to the new $1.3 billion of debt associated with the AssuraMed acquisition.
The non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was about 37% versus the prior year's 36%.
Our non-GAAP diluted average shares outstanding were 345 million for the fourth quarter approximately 4 million favorable to last year.
As I indicated in our third quarter earnings call in May we expected to complete at least $250 million of share repo in the subsequent months.
We did accomplish that during Q4 which brought our full year share repurchases to a total of $450 million.
We had $400 million remaining on our board-authorized repurchase program at the end of the quarter.
During fiscal 2013 we also returned another $353 million to shareholders in the form of dividends.
Now let's discuss consolidated cash flows in the balance sheet.
We generated $300 million in operating cash flow in the quarter ending the year with approximately $1.7 billion in cash flow from operations.
This was much better than our original expectations driven by earnings performance product mix our continued focus on working capital management and timing.
At the end of Q4 we had $1.9 billion in cash in our balance sheet which includes around $425 million held internationally.
During the quarter we also repaid $300 million for the 5.5% notes that matured in June leaving our year-end debt balance at $3.9 million.
Our working capital days ended the quarter virtually flat versus prior year with increased days inventory on hand offset by higher payable days primarily driven by product and customer mix.
Now let's move to segment performance.
I'll discuss Pharma first.
In line with our expectations Pharma segment revenues decreased 6% to $22.8 billion due to the expiration of the Express Scripts contract.
This decrease was partially offset by revenues from expanded customer relationships.
Of particular note sales to non-bulk customers continued to increase up over 5% for the period and contributed close to 70% of Pharma segment revenues.
Our generic programs once again performed well.
And we continue to see continued brand inflation in the high-single digits about as we expected.
Pharma segment profit increased by 11% to $395 million driven by the overall strong growth in generics and strong performance under our branded pharma contracts.
With respect to generics we did as expected see less contribution from new generic launches in this year's quarter versus Q4 of fiscal 2012.
Sequentially from Q3 generic deflation moderated slightly to the lower-single digits.
Pharma segment profit margin rate increased by 28 basis points compared to the prior year's Q4 a reflection of the strength of our generics programs and our focus on margin expansion including customer and product mix.
In addition within customer categories margin expansion in Pharma Distribution was strong across most of our customer classes of trade.
Before wrapping up my discussion on Pharma I want to spend a few moments on Nuclear and then touch on a Pharma-related reporting change.
As George mentioned the challenges stemming from lower forecasted demand from the radiopharmaceutical industry have increased.
In conjunction with the preparation of our consolidated year-end financial statements and as an output from the completion of our annual planning process in June we recently completed our annual goodwill impairment test.
As part of this annual test we concluded the entire goodwill amount of our Nuclear Pharmacy Services division was impaired resulting in a noncash impairment charge of $829 million or $799 million net of tax.
As background the majority of the goodwill of Nuclear was acquired through our acquisition of Syncor International Corporation in fiscal 2003.
Before the impact of the impairment charge we had a total of approximately $1 billion of invested capital in nuclear accumulated over the past 12 years.
Over that same time excluding allocated corporate costs nuclear has contributed almost $1.6 billion in profit to the company and been very margin-accretive to the overall company results.
However as previously disclosed in our second and third quarter 10-Qs nuclear has been experiencing significant softness in the low-energy diagnostics market.
During the second half of fiscal '13 we experienced sustained-volume declines and price erosion for the core low-energy products provided by this division.
In addition we saw reduced sales for some existing high-energy diagnostic products lower-than-expected adoption of new high-energy products and recent reimbursement development that may adversely impact the future growth of these products.
Using this information we adjusted our outlook and long-term business plans for this division in connection with our annual budgeting process which we recently concluded.
This update resulted in significant reductions in the anticipated future cash flows and estimated fair value for this reporting unit.
I should note that this impairment charge does not impact our liquidity cash flows from operations or compliance with debt covenants.
Before I leave our discussion of the Pharma segment I also want to make you aware of a Pharma-related reporting change going forward.
For some time now we've been reporting bulk and non-bulk revenues and margins.
Given that a large portion of our bulk business either has been or will soon be removed from -- through the expiration of 2 contracts bulk margin is no longer a relevant data point for our business.
Therefore beginning in fiscal 2014 we will no longer be breaking out bulk and non-bulk revenue or margin.
Our fiscal 2013 10-K will be the last reporting period showing this data.
Now moving to the Medical segment performance.
Medical revenue growth was up 11% versus last year an increase of $265 million.
The AssuraMed acquisition was the primary driver of revenue growth in the quarter.
In addition we're pleased to report 31% Medical segment profit growth in Q4.
The AssuraMed acquisition was a primary driver of profit growth.
I'll note here that the full year net accretion impact of AssuraMed including the related financing costs was $0.04 versus our original expectations of $0.02 to $0.03.
Our preferred products were also a positive contributor of profit growth in the quarter as we focused on product improvement and cost efficiencies.
As George discussed we again saw a procedural volume softness in the U.S.
market which had some moderating impact on our segment results.
Also partially offsetting the Medical segment profit growth was the year-over-year increase in incentive compensation much of which is based on total company performance and allocated to the segment.
Finally Cardinal Health China which spans both segments posted strong revenue growth of over 70% for the quarter.
As George mentioned China achieved a $2 billion revenue figure this year.
I am very proud of our management team and employees in China who continue to drive results and expand into new geographic areas and product lines.
Turning to Slide #8 you'll see our consolidated GAAP results for the quarter which include items that reduce our GAAP results by $2.51 per share compared to non-GAAP.
Included in this figure is the exclusion of $2.32 worth of impairments almost all of which relate to the previously mentioned goodwill impairment charge in the nuclear division.
Also included is $0.11 of acquisition-related costs which reflects $0.09 of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and $0.06 of restructuring costs.
In Q4 last year GAAP results were $0.05 lower than non-GAAP results primarily related to acquisition-related costs.
While on the topic of GAAP results I'd also want to point out our usual GAAP effective tax rate for Q4 in the year which were primarily driven by the goodwill impairment charge in nuclear most of which had no tax benefit.
I have one final housekeeping item related to our GAAP results.
Due to the loss of continuing operations during the fourth quarter of fiscal '13 per accounting guidance we used the basic share count when calculating both the basic and dilutive Q4 GAAP earnings per share.
Now let me make a few comments about 2013 in total.
For the full year non-GAAP operating earnings were up 10%.
I am very pleased with our excellent progress on margin expansion with both the gross margin rate and the non-GAAP operating margin rate increasing versus last year up 65 basis points and 29 basis points respectively.
As reported our FY '13 non-GAAP EPS of $3.73 represents 16% year-on-year growth which you may recall includes an $0.18 favorable tax settlement in Q3.
Excluding this settlement we reported double-digit non-GAAP EPS growth.
I echo George's comments about our achievements this past year and thank our employees for their contributions.
We had a strong financial finish to the year marked by significant progress on our strategic initiatives.
And again our results enabled us to return over $800 million to shareholders in fiscal '13 through both share buybacks and our differentiated dividend.
Our performance in fiscal '13 provides a solid foundation from which we've launched 2014.
Now I'll move to our fiscal 2014 outlook.
As you know we provided some early thoughts on the year on our May call.
And at that time we indicated our preliminary target for fiscal 2014 non-GAAP earnings per share was to be at the high-end of the range of $3.42 to $3.50.
Today having completed our budget process we're providing formal guidance and are raising our range to $3.45 to $3.60.
We do expect revenue will be significantly lower as the Walgreens contract will only contribute 2 months during the year and Express Scripts will anniversary its 1-year expiration on September 30.
I'll now walk through our corporate assumptions for the year.
Our anticipated diluted weighted average shares outstanding are approximately $343 million benefits from the $250 million in recent share repo I mentioned earlier and assumes a small amount of additional repo.
We will continue to assess further opportunities for share repurchases as the year progresses keeping in mind our cash balances possible strategic investments and market conditions.
We expect net interest and other expense of $145 million to $155 million which approximates our current run rate and reflects the AssuraMed financing.
For fiscal '14 we expect capital expenditures in the range of $245 million to $265 million with the bulk of that spending on our strategic priorities and IT investments.
We also expect amortization of intangible-related assets and prior acquisitions to be approximately $180 million or $0.33 per share.
AssuraMed is the primary driver of the increase versus last year.
We're projecting an overall non-GAAP tax rate in the range of 34.5% to 36%.
This tax range reflects our expectations of further discussions and potential settlement of outstanding audit periods as well as the benefit of our tax planning efforts.
The range is wider than our typical assumption in order to capture the range of outcomes for a few large moving pieces this coming year.
We expect the discrete nature of resolving or clarifying certain items to result in quarterly variability in our tax rate.
Finally although we do not provide specific cash flow guidance I will remind you of my comments regarding the expiration of the Walgreens contract.
We anticipate a net after-tax benefit to cash flow from operating activities in fiscal 2014 of more than $500 million based on the expected working capital decrease loss after-tax earnings and other cash tax impacts.
Finally let me comment on a few segment-specific assumptions beyond those which George or I may have already mentioned.
In Pharma we're planning for the brand inflation rate to be similar to fiscal '13.
Generic programs are projected to grow in profit contribution despite an expectation of lower year-on-year contribution from new generic launches and we do not expect a LIFO impact during the year.
In Medical clearly we plan for a strong contribution from AssuraMed.
We'll also be continuing to invest aggressively in the development and rollout of our preferred product portfolio.
We expect the headwinds -- we expect a flat utilization environment and approximately $10 million of incremental expense related to the medical device tax.
In addition since I often get asked about the impact of commodities based on our current forecast we anticipate a year-over-year cost of goods increase in the range of $10 million to $20 million.
Finally a word on any anticipated growth from the Affordable Care Act.
This is very difficult to project for either segment.
Therefore in our assumptions we have not include any associated change in demand for fiscal 2014 at this stage.
We plan to keep our operations lean and utilize our flexible model to capture any upside as it materializes.
In closing I feel very optimistic as we head into fiscal '14.
We're excited about our customer and product portfolio and the potential of our strategic priorities and we'll continue to focus on actions that lead to margin expansion and earnings growth.
With that let's begin Q&amp;A.
Operator please take our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Robert Jones from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Stephan calling in for Bob.
Maybe you can touch on how your customer conversations have been? It's been a couple of months since losing WAG.
Anything changed there particularly with the independence? Stephan it's George.
And as you know we've been devoting a lot of energy over the last years to strengthening our position in the independent market.
That continues to be an area of focus for us.
Our conversations are very good.
We devote most of our energy to what we can do to make them a more competitive and thrive in their marketplace don't -- devote a lot of energy to that particular change.
I would say right now many of these customers are sort of wait-and-see mode to see what implications of various industry transactions mean.
But we are really feeling good about our position with our independent customers very committed to their growth and devote considerable energy to them.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I guess lastly on the share count.
It's a bit higher than we were expecting for 2014 if you were to assume a normal course of buybacks.
You did note a small amount of buybacks in the expectations.
Any reason to think that they could be lower than a normal course normal year from a course of buybacks? Stephan this is Jeff thanks for that question.
So we finished the end of Q4 with about 343-ish million shares outstanding on a diluted basis.
And that reflects the $250 million of shares we bought back in Q4 which was really a pull ahead of some of the shares that we expected to buy back in '14.
As I said we expect the average rate over the course of '14 to be about that same 343 million which really means that the additional repo that we'll do in '14 will largely be allocated towards offsetting any dilution from the issuance of shares over the course of the year.
And that's what's reflected in our guidance.
That all said as I said in my prepared remarks we have a strong balance sheet.
We're going to continue to generate good cash in fiscal '14.
And as opportunities permit based on our cash balances based on the attractiveness of other strategic opportunities there's nothing to say that we wouldn't pursue additional repo over the year and I would view that as an upside.
Our next question is from Steven Valiquette from UBS.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of quick questions here.
First you mentioned you expect continued softness in nuclear in fiscal '14.
But I think for us we're just trying to figure out is there any sort of ballpark approximation of the EPS impact year-over-year of the softness in that unit.
Are we talking about just like a $0.05 of EPS or something greater than that? Just trying to frame how much that hurts you year-over-year.
And that's obviously excluding the impairment charge when thinking about that? Yes thanks for the question Steve.
As we said we have seen a continued decline in the nuclear business to an extent greater than what we had been expecting perhaps earlier in the year.
And at this point our forecast assumes that decline to continue both in terms of the overall market demand and some of the pricing impacts we're seeing related to that.
It is a negative impact next year again versus FY '13.
I think quantifying it in the $0.05 range is probably a reasonable approximation at this point.
And that's probably -- that's net of some of the cost-reduction actions that we've taken to attempt to offset some of the impact but it doesn't totally offset it.
So I think your approximation is reasonable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick big-picture question for George since this topic came up on a few of your competitor calls.
Just curious on any thoughts you have big picture around your appetite for global generic procurement collaborations? It seems to be coming up on the press et cetera.
I'm just curious to get your big-picture thoughts and anything you could say about that.
Lots in the press.
As I said we really -- we like our positioning.
Our generics business is very strong has great scale.
We're growing.
We are already very globalized in our procurement systems and the way we work.
I guess what I'd say we never dismiss any opportunity to continue to improve our business.
But as I said we're in a good position right now.
We'll continue to compete aggressively and effectively and always keep our minds open to ways to improve our business.
But nothing I can say more than that.
Our next question is from Ross Muken from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So obviously George you talked about on the call it's been an eventful year.
You've had some time to reflect post sort of the WAG loss and obviously you've been sort of dealing with Express for some time and now we've had AssuraMed on board for over a quarter.
So as you think about sort of what's transpired in the business you sounded pretty resilient on your remarks.
And I'm curious just in general where are you most focused in terms of where you want to drive this business? What are your kind of key takeaways from what you've learned as CEO from all this sort of trials and tribulations the last 12 18 months? And how do you sort of wrap that all together in terms of the forward plan? Yes.
Thanks Ross how much time do we have? It's a great question.
And I'll try to give a concise answer as much as I can because there's a lot in there.
Let's start with -- it's been a hell of a year obviously and I would say a really great year.
But putting it all into context which is I think what you've asked me to do here I think if we go back even just 3 4 years ago I think it would've been hard for us to imagine that we could have done enough repositioning to be able to absorb the ending of a major contract like Walgreens.
Our organization has done a fantastic job and really disciplined work to add strength and balance to our business and to our portfolio.
We've had consistent growth even with some turbulence around the system like what we've experienced this year in nuclear imaging and honestly I think we're forecasting a pretty strong fiscal 2014 while absorbing that nonrenewal.
So in context I feel really good about -- we are stronger better balanced better equipped from a talent perspective and better positioned given some of the changes in healthcare.
And some of which I described in my prepared remarks we know that that care is going to be changing.
We know that some of the payment systems are going to reform.
We know that there's going to have to be both innovation and competitive alternative products.
And so I'm really proud of both our group and the work that's been done over the past years to sort of reposition us for growth.
I think we know what we want to do.
We're going to have to continue as Jeff described earlier to be really flexible and nimble and quick because the world is changing rapidly in healthcare.
But I hope that gives you a little perspective.
Our next question is from Glen Santangelo from Crdit Suisse.
This is actually Jeff Bailin in for Glen.
If we could just talk for a moment on the Medical segment about the Medical Business Transformation we haven't talked about that in a little while.
Can you guys comment on if you're realizing some of the hoped-for benefits and maybe how the underlying legacy Cardinal Medical segment performed in the quarter? Why I don't just -- why don't I start Jeff in answering that a little bit in sort of generally on the business transformation and then I'm going to turn it to Jeff who can probably walk through a little more of the detail.
But let me start with this.
I would just say the medical system is now fully integrated into our Medical business which is great and we'll continue to drive the effectiveness of this program in helping us serve our customers.
We had -- got us a little bit of a slow start in the year with some change management issues.
But as we worked our way through the year I think we finish with most of our metrics particularly the important one of service levels exceeding our pre-transformation pre-implementation levels.
So from that standpoint we're where we need to be.
Jeff if you want to add to that at all? Yes.
For the quarter the Medical Business Transformation was a net add to the profitability of the Medical segment.
For the full year it was essentially a wash.
As George mentioned we started off the year with some negative impact from it really as we were cleaning up the remaining change management issues and getting the system fine-tuned.
As we've gotten to the second half of the year we've been focused on finishing up any remaining cleanup items but really more importantly driving the benefits of the system not only in terms of some of the costs in inventory benefits that were expected early on as a result of the implementation but much more importantly by driving the use of the system through our sales teams through our operating teams so that we can drive the longer-term strategic benefits with our customers which is really why the system was meant to begin with.
And we're beginning to see some of those benefits in the way that we can sell our preferred products for example to customers.
Those benefits will continue to materialize in FY '14 and beyond.
And at this point we feel very good about the positioning of the system in terms of our ability to use it to drive those benefits.
With regards to your second question about underlying performance of the medical business if you strip out the AssuraMed benefit I would say it was sort of a mixed story.
Very happy to see increased contribution from the preferred products priority which will continue to be a very very key strategic initiative for us this year and beyond.
Offsetting that was the continued procedural softness that both the George and I referenced.
That's sort of become a reality at least for the near term that we're dealing with.
And we feel we have lots of tools to deal with that and continue to grow earnings in a flat utilization environment.
But then I also mentioned this is more of a sort of technical accounting issue but as we trued-up our incentive comp for the year which is largely driven by consolidated performance particularly as it relates to our 401(k) contribution those true-ups got pushed down to the Medical segment and that tended to have a dampening impact on segment profit as well.
But all things considered actually we feel pretty well about how Medical ended the year and how they're positioned heading into FY '14.
Our next question is from Ricky Goldwasser from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> George and Jeff when you think about nuclear does strategically it makes sense to continue to have it in your portfolio given just the grimmer reimbursement outlook and the declining profitability? So Ricky I'll start and then if Jeff wants to he can jump in on the financial side.
We are still serving a great number of important customers.
And so as you think about the basket of services that we might for example provide a large integrated academic medical center our ability to support them is multifactorial.
So we have many dimensions of how we serve them.
And so I think for us this is an area where we continue to serve and it's still a contributor to our business.
I don't know if you want to add anything to that Jeff? Yes.
First of all Ricky I'd say this is sort of margin-accretive business to the overall consolidated results.
We continue to believe that there are scenarios in the future where particularly in the PET technology space there are opportunities for the cash flow forecast to improve from our current scenario.
And I'll also say like all parts of our businesses -- and this isn't unique to nuclear or anything else in our portfolio.
We continually assess the value-add from keeping the business in our portfolio versus other arrangements.
And at this point we believe keeping it in the portfolio is best for the company and shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I think in the prepared remarks you said that AssuraMed in the quarter was -- came in ahead from your initial expectation.
So when you think about the fiscal year '14 guidance do you assume higher accretion from AssuraMed than what you've kind of like communicated earlier on? Yes.
So we -- at the time that we announced the deal we said that we expected AssuraMed to be at least $0.18 accretive in FY '14 net of financing costs.
As we gone through our budgeting process and had 4 months now of actual results we are very confident that the accretion impact in FY '14 will be at or above that $0.18.
Our next question is from Tom Gallucci from Lazard Capital.
Research Division</strong> Jeff 2 questions on the numbers if I could.
First you mentioned the incentive comp and I was just trying to get an understanding of sort of the underlying growth within the medical-surgical segment it was -- can you quantify that incentive number that had dropped down into that area? Yes it was close to about $10 million of negative year-on-year impact from the incremental incentive comp.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then obviously lots of moving parts to next year.
You sort of gave us your big-picture views.
Would you care to I guess do 1 of 2 things: With respect to the drug segment lots -- even more moving parts can you give us any idea of what sort of margin ranges maybe you're expecting there? Or with the ramp down of Walgreens and then I assume some cost-cutting in relation to that how should we think about maybe the cadence of the quarters in the drug segment versus what maybe we've seen historically? Sure.
Well let me handle those in reverse order if I could Tom.
First of all keep in mind that we still have Walgreens for the first 2 months of fiscal '14.
So obviously 2/3 of Q1 has the benefit of continuing to support Walgreens.
So I mean that gives you a bit of an idea of quarterly cadence.
Beyond that I wouldn't get too specific.
With regards to margin expansion I mean this is clearly focus #1 2 and 3 for us as we go through '14 and it has been for the past 3 years to make sure that we have the strategic portfolio and the operating focus on both the products customers and the internal part of the business to ensure that we're driving margin expansion.
We've had great success there for the past 3-plus years.
I expect us to continue to drive that in FY '14 and beyond.
I don't want to get too specific about the segment profit margins but I think almost implicit in the guidance that we've given is a continued margin expansion overall for the company in FY '14.
Our next question is from John Kreger from William Blair.
It's Robbie Fatta in for John today.
If I could stick with AssuraMed can you give us any updated thoughts on the competitive bidding front and how you think that might impact results in fiscal '14 and beyond? Yes it's George.
We've sort of built this in as you know when we announced the acquisition.
We did talk about the dynamics from a competitive bidding and that we had made some assumptions associated with that.
We feel pretty good about those assumptions.
One of the things that we might see around the market and we are seeing some signs if you look at some of the customer base in the DME area I think we might see somewhat of a shakeup there and some consolidation among those customers who are doing DME.
And I think that's to some extent attributable to competitive bidding and the dynamics around the market.
But I think we had done a fairly good job of anticipating this and feel good about how we're beginning 2014.
Great that's helpful.
And then maybe longer term it certainly sounds like the medical business is becoming a much more important part of the mix.
As you look maybe 3 years out how big of a percentage of operating income would you envision the Medical segment contributing? Robbie I don't think at this point we're comfortable giving a 3-year forecast on segment distribution at this point.
I think it's safe to say we really feel good about both of our segments.
We'll continue to invest in both of them.
I think the medical area around healthcare is obviously in our national spend obviously a much bigger component.
And while that presents some challenges it also means there's more opportunities in some ways because there's just such enormous activity in that area.
So we're trying to stay very thoughtful about those changes make sure our portfolio is diversified so that we can take a punch if one component of the portfolio is getting affected.
And so we feel good about it.
But I do not want to diminish in any way our commitment to our pharmaceutical work.
It is a huge part of what we do.
We do it extremely well.
We've got a great team that we're building with the increasing know-how particularly around clinical activity in the pharmaceutical side.
Our last question is from Lisa Gill from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> George I had a couple of questions around generics.
My first question would be that clearly in the quarter you call out generics as being better than expected although there were less new generics in the market.
Can you talk about penetration within your customer base and where you are today and where you see it going? And then also along those lines have you changed your contracting at all with manufacturers that are driving this increase in profit? And should we expect that to continue into '14? So there are couple of questions sort of built into that.
It has been a strong period for us in generics.
And you're correct it hasn't necessarily been all about new launches.
We have to be able to thrive in an environment where those come and go.
I think we have continued to grow our general penetration but I'd say at this point it's pretty stable.
We are at a very competitive position to anybody in the market.
We will continue to try to inch that up.
Some of it is also about penetration in the overall system.
But I would say from the standpoint of how we deal with each of our customers we've probably done a good job over the last 3 years of really getting to a market-leading competitive positioning and feel good about that and feel good about that going forward.
More on generics I would say as you know the environment in pricing tends to be in the overall when you aggregate it it tends to be affected by 1 or 2 big product sets inflate or deflate and that's certainly still true.
But I would say in the overall mix of products as we look at the broad basket of several thousand products that environment is sort of as it was last time we spoke which is a pretty good environment for us.
And so I think that's probably a little bit of characterization on the pricing side.
But as it relates to our work with manufacturers we're trying to be very strategic about it very thoughtful about not just where our customers are going and what they need in this marketplace but also where the generic manufacturers are going and what they face whether they're vertically integrated nonvertically integrated what's strategically relevant to them.
So we try to build our strategy with each of them or around the things that we understand about their businesses.
And we've tried to take a very thoughtful strategic approach to thinking about the upstream and how we work with our partners.
Research Division</strong> And then George I guess my second question would just be that people are all focused around this generic global purchasing.
But my question has to do with really thinking about drug distribution globally.
Clearly China was up 45% this year.
You've done really well in China.
How do you think about the global market and are there other areas that you think are similar to China and you think Cardinal will go in that direction internationally in the next few years? How should we think about that? Yes look it's a fair question.
Obviously China's been a high priority for us and I think we've done a really good job there.
But it's hard it's really hard to look at that as a global distribution market.
I would say it's a global procurement market in many ways but global distribution is a sort of different notion.
Markets have very distinct characteristics.
Some are very mature and completely saturated some are government-controlled in terms of pricing some are still in their early nascent period of -- and growing but with financing dynamics.
So we will be very disciplined.
Thankfully we've got a team with good knowledge of the global pharmaceutical and medical device world and we're going to be very disciplined about how we look at international opportunities.
If one had the characteristics of a market like China of course it will have some attraction to it.
But there are others that we've looked at and see and just do not seem attractive and would not serve our shareholders as well.
I would now like to turn the call over to George Barrett for closing comments.
Well listen I just want to thank everyone for joining us on the call.
As I said it's been an exciting year.
We feel good about where we are.
We look forward to seeing many of you in the coming weeks.
I think we will.
And with that we'll sign off.
Thanks everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Cardinal Health Fiscal Year 2014 First Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Sally Curley Senior Vice President of Investor Relations you may begin.
Thank you Nicole and welcome to Cardinal Health's First Quarter Fiscal 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today we will be making forward-looking statements and the matters addressed in these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to our SEC filings and the forward-looking statements slide at the beginning of the presentation found on the Investors page of our website for a description of those risks and uncertainties.
In addition we will reference non-GAAP financial measures.
Information about these measures is included at the end of the slide.
I would also like to remind you of a few upcoming investment conferences and events in which we will be webcasting.
Notably the Annual Meeting of Shareholders at 8 a.m.
Eastern on November 6 at our headquarters here in Dublin Ohio; and our invitation-only Investor and Analyst Day on December 10 in New York.
The details of these webcasts and events are or will be posted on the IR section of our website at cardinalhealth.com so please make sure to visit the site often for updated information.
We look forward to seeing you in the upcoming events.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO George Barrett.
George? Thanks Sally and good morning to everyone.
Our fiscal 2014 is off to a very strong start.
Our first quarter performance demonstrated growth and balance and progress on our key strategic priorities.
There's a lot to discuss so let's get right to it.
Total revenue for the first quarter was $24.5 billion down 5% year-over-year as we lapped the loss of the Express Scripts business and absorbed the expiration of our Walgreens contract which occurred at the end of August.
We were able to partially offset this revenue loss with growth in existing customers and the contribution from new business.
Our non-GAAP EPS grew by 36% to $1.10 helped by an $0.18 benefit from the resolution of some historical tax matters.
Looking deeper the results show we achieved a very healthy 13% growth in non-GAAP operating earnings fueled by strong margin expansion and operating profit increases in both our pharmaceutical and medical segments.
For those of you keeping score our year-over-year gross margin rate has expanded every quarter for the past 3 years.
We also had an outstanding cash flow performance generating $950 million in the quarter.
Importantly the wind down of the Walgreens work was done very efficiently and effectively.
Our team did an outstanding job.
They were able to dramatically reduce our inventory while maintaining the uncompromisingly high service levels we expect and Walgreens worked closely with us to ensure a smooth transition for us and we do appreciate that.
The bottom line our balance sheet is rock-solid and our growth is very healthy.
We are well-positioned to continue growing and to seize quality opportunities wherever they emerge.
Based on our first quarter results and the strength of our operating earnings performance we are now guiding to a new range of $3.62 to $3.72 for fiscal year 2014 non-GAAP EPS.
This guidance reflects a full year tax rate assumption that is unchanged from our original expectations although we do expect to see some quarterly fluctuations in the rate and Jeff will give you some more detail on this.
I'm sure all of you saw this morning our announcement of the authorization of a new multiyear share repurchase program for $1 billion.
This will allow us flexibility as we execute our balanced capital deployment philosophy.
I'd also like to take a few minutes to give you my perspective on recent moves in the marketplace.
The world is rapidly changing and no industry more so than health care.
In these past 18 months we witnessed and participated ourselves in several noteworthy realignments in our industry.
Clearly last week's announcement that McKesson is acquiring Celesio is the most recent.
For our part we try to bring our collective experience and insights to the moves that make us stronger and better positioned.
We will be uncompromising in our commitment to uphold and grow a decisive competitive advantage and top-tier returns for our shareholders.
Many factors contribute to our sustainable competitive advantage but I'd like to call your attention to a few.
First our unrivaled touch points across an increasingly integrating system will be more efficient effective and connected across the continuum of care.
Second we have the size and impact to create benefits for our customers and to create clear share opportunities from manufacturer partners.
Third we deliver a world-class execution.
This is a standard against which we will constantly measure ourselves.
And finally we are an organization with the unwavering discipline imagination and the flexibility to bring solutions to systems badly in need of them.
By the way I'm hearing some beeping.
I'm hoping that everyone is able to hear us.
I'm going to continue on assuming that beeping is not getting in the way of things.
All this requires having a capital and a flexible capital deployment strategy to compete in the world going through a rapid change.
These things are all strengths of Cardinal Health and we can use periods of industry change to expand them.
As always we'll thoroughly evaluate all options to expand our competitive advantage and deliver even better returns and we'll continue to take options for growth available to us.
We are ready to move and we'll do so decisively when the lights are green.
But we will follow a simple principle with discipline any decision we make must deliver meaningful and lasting value to our customers our supplier partners and to our shareholders.
Not all opportunities that present themselves are created equally.
It's our responsibility to know the difference and act accordingly and you should expect nothing less of us.
Now on to the segments.
Our Pharmaceutical segment delivered robust profit growth of 8% on an expected revenue decline.
Our segment margin expanded by 29 basis points.
Our growth in both new and existing Pharmaceutical Distribution customers reflects the value that we've been bringing to them through both our branded and generic programs.
Our pharma margin was further expanded by our continued progress on our sourcing programs and our product and customer mix initiatives.
Our pharma team continues to perform well in the retail independent space and we see continued market share growth.
As you know this has been an area of focus over the past few years and we remain deeply committed to retail pharmacy.
We're continuing to see steep revenue growth in Specialty Solutions and we're picking up new accounts at an excellent pace especially in the oncology services and distribution area.
In addition we've been adding to our clinical talent base in specialty and we're seeing the benefits.
Our thesis in Specialty Solutions is that we can create significant value in connecting providers payors and biopharmaceutical companies in collaborative ways that result in better patient care at lower cost that will be central to specialty pharmaceutical care and that's why it's at the core of our specialty model.
The environment around nuclear imaging remains challenging but our Nuclear business continues to adapt effectively to market conditions.
The Medical segment performance was strong.
Revenue was up 13% to $2.7 billion and segment profit increased 43%.
The key driver was AssuraMed which accelerated that growth and we also saw volume growth in our existing customer base and penetration within our targeted strategic accounts.
Investments in strategic platforms and a strong focus on our efficiency initiatives also contributed to a sharp segment profit increase compared to a year ago.
Building our preferred product portfolio remains a top priority.
It's an example of what makes Cardinal Health tick.
We listen to our customers and then act.
Their needs and expectations drive our decisions.
The preferred product portfolio addresses our customers' need for lower-cost alternatives to mature medical devices.
In fact we introduced more new preferred products in this fiscal first quarter than we did all of last year.
Our priority is to be ready and able to meet changing needs so we've adapted our go-to-market model to ensure we're 100% aligned with market trends.
As a result we're getting more products to more patients more cost-effectively throughout the continuum of care.
In line with this the trend toward home health care is unlikely to diminish with today's strong focus on cost containment and greater health care consumerism.
Our March 2013 acquisition of AssuraMed the leading distributor of medical products to the home gives us a tremendous platform through which to move into this market.
AssuraMed is performing well with profit contribution exceeding the acquisition model.
The expected synergies and efficiency gains are being realized.
We are only just beginning to leverage this platform across the Cardinal Health organization.
Our Medical segment continues to innovate.
This past Tuesday we jointly announced with FedEx our new strategic alliance by combining our health care expertise third-party logistics capabilities and specialized facilities.
With FedEx's global transportation logistics and technology capabilities we will offer tailor-made third-party logistics and supply chain solutions for the health care industry.
Turning to China.
First quarter revenues were up nearly 30% year-over-year.
Our strategy here remains to enlarge our geographic footprint to create new business partnerships and to bring our expertise to new opportunities such as direct-to-patient and consumer health.
A lot has been happening in China and Jeff will touch on that in a moment but one thing is totally clear health care in China will continue to grow.
We're very well positioned to play in a central role in this rapidly expanding health care marketplace.
As you know we've made several acquisitions in China over the past 2 years largely focused on building out our geographic footprint.
Most recently we closed on an acquisition that will broaden our capabilities and will give us a platform to begin building out an e-commerce business for nonprescription products.
This platform will be used as both a B2C platform and in conjunction with a rapidly expanding direct-to-patient pharmacy network.
As I finish up today let me make a few quick comments in the Affordable Care Act.
As is well documented at this point the rollout of the exchanges has experienced its challenges.
As you remember we've been clear from the start that we were not building into our guidance any upside based on short-term expectations for new volume in the system.
This is a major piece of legislation we recognize that these are early days and that the opening pitch has just been thrown.
We're going to stay on top of this and we'll be ready for whatever comes next.
I'll conclude by welcoming Patricia Hemingway Hall President and CEO of Health Care Services Corporation to our Board of Directors.
Pat has built a distinguished career on both the provider and payor side of the industry and we look forward to the wealth of knowledge she'll bring to our board.
I also want to thank Jean Spaulding who'll be stepping down from our board next week.
Her insight and guidance over the past 11 years have been invaluable.
Her legacy will be lasting and we wish her well.
So again we're off to a great start to fiscal 2014.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks George and Happy Halloween everyone.
In case you're wondering I am dressed as a Canadian today.
This morning I'll be reviewing the drivers of first quarter performance and provide additional detail on the full year as well as our somewhat atypical decision to raise the fiscal 2014 guidance range after only our first quarter.
You can refer to the slide presentation posted on our website as a guide to this discussion.
Let's start with consolidated results for the quarter.
We reported a 36% increase in non-GAAP earnings per share in our first quarter versus the prior year's period.
This is driven by 2 major items.
First and most importantly we began fiscal '14 with great execution across our businesses posting a 13% increase in non-GAAP operating earnings.
Second our results include an unusual tax benefit of $0.18 per share.
Even excluding the $0.18 non-GAAP earnings per share grew a robust 14% a great quarter of growth.
Let me go through the rest of the income statement in a little bit more detail starting with revenues.
Consolidated sales were down 5% to $24.5 billion which was better than our expectations.
The decline was due to the expiration of the Express Scripts contract which we have now fully lapped and the Walgreens business which just ended on August 31.
Gross margin dollars increased 9% to 5.15% of revenue with a rate of 68 basis points versus prior year.
SG&amp;A expenses rose 6% in Q1 primarily driven by the recent AssuraMed acquisition and partially offset by planned efficiency initiatives.
Our commitment to controlling costs and improving the efficiency of our operations resulted in a decrease in our core SG&amp;A spend versus the same period last year.
Our consolidated non-GAAP operating margin rate increased 36 basis points to 2.17%.
We've now posted operating margins greater than 2% in 3 of the last 4 quarters.
You'll notice that our net interest and other expense came in higher in Q1 than the prior year's quarter.
This is primarily due to the new $1.3 billion of debt we issued in February associated with the AssuraMed acquisition.
The non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 24.7% versus the prior year's 37.8%.
The uncharacteristically low rate was primarily due to beneficial tax settlements totaling $63 million in the quarter.
Please note this amount only affects our tax line and has no impact on operating earnings or segment results.
Without those discrete items our tax rate for the quarter would've been about 37% much more in line with our normal rate.
I'll discuss tax assumptions for the full year later in my prepared remarks.
Our diluted weighted average shares outstanding were 343.7 million for the first quarter which is about 700 000 favorable to last year.
During the quarter we repurchased $50 million worth of shares.
And at the end of the period we had $350 million remaining on our board-authorized repurchase program.
Today as George mentioned we announced that our board authorized a new repurchase program for $1 billion.
This plan is in addition to the $350 million remaining under our previous plan.
Now let's discuss the consolidated cash flows and the balance sheet.
We generated $950 million in operating cash flow in the quarter which greatly exceeded our expectations.
There were 2 major factors that contributed to this strong cash flow generation.
First our strong underlying operating earnings performance; and second the wind down of the Walgreens contract which contributed over half of the first quarter's cash flow as we reduced inventory levels significantly and faster than we originally anticipated.
Given this accelerated wind down we would not expect to see a similar level of cash flow contribution in the second quarter.
On the Walgreens unwind I echo George's comment and thank our team who ensured that we exited the Walgreens contract smoothly balancing extremely high service levels with a rapid reduction in inventory.
Moving on.
At the end of Q1 we had $2.8 billion in cash in our balance sheet which includes $475 million held internationally.
While our working capital days decreased versus prior year I would like to note that our working capital metrics are distorted this quarter due to the expiration of the Walgreens contract in mid-period.
We don't believe these metrics provide meaningful measures compared to the prior year's period and therefore we'll not be providing these metrics in the quarter.
Now let's move to segment performance.
I'll discuss pharma first.
Pharma segment revenue came in better than expected although it did post a decrease of 7% to $21.8 billion driven by the expiration of the Express Scripts and Walgreens contracts.
This decrease was partially offset by volume growth from new and existing customers.
As a reminder we lapped the Express Scripts contract expiration this quarter.
And given the August 31 Walgreens contract expiration revenue from Walgreens was $1.7 billion less than the prior year's quarter.
Pharma segment profit increased by 8% to $433 million due to contributions from across our businesses with strong performance from both our generics and brand product portfolios.
Given the nature of the wind down of the Walgreens contract the expiration did not significantly impact our operating earnings compared to the prior year period.
We do expect the contract expiration to have an adverse impact on our period-over-period comparison results of operations during the remainder of this fiscal year and the first quarter of fiscal '15.
This has been incorporated in our fiscal 2014 guidance assumption which I'll discuss in a moment.
With respect to generics we did as expected we lapped contribution from new generic launches in this year's quarter versus Q1 of fiscal 2013.
Nevertheless sales and profits from all generic programs exhibited very good year-over-year growth in the quarter reflecting the emphasis we have placed over the last several years building the strength of our programs and the overall robustness of the market.
Sequentially from Q4 generic deflation moderated slightly from the lower-single digits to essentially flat.
We also saw strong performance under our branded pharma contracts with brand inflation in the low-double digits about or perhaps slightly better than we had expected.
Pharma segment profit margin rate increased by 29 basis points compared to the prior year's Q1 a reflection of the strength of our generics programs and our focus on margin expansion including customer and product mix.
In addition within customer categories margin expansion in Pharma Distribution was strong across almost all of our customer class of trade.
Now moving on to Medical segment performance.
Medical revenue growth was up 13% versus last year an increase of $319 million.
The AssuraMed acquisition was the primary driver of revenue growth in the quarter.
We also saw volume growth from our existing customer base a result of our continued focus on strategic hospital network accounts which tend to utilize more of our products and services to drive efficiency in their supply chain.
Medical segment profit grew 43% in Q1 primarily driven by AssuraMed.
As George said the integration is on track and we continue to be excited about the growth we've seen in the home health market and the potential of the AssuraMed platform.
I will note that we remain very confident in our original estimate of achieving at least $0.18 of non-GAAP EPS accretion for the full year.
Other factors positively impacting segment profit included contribution from planned efficiency initiatives and growth in our preferred products portfolio.
Now I have a few words on Cardinal Health China a business which spans both of our reporting segments.
Our business in China again posted strong double-digit revenue growth for the quarter up 29%.
While we're on the subject of China let me take a few more moments to comment on the environment as we see it.
First although we continue to see news around the slowing of industrial growth in China the health care market in China is growing and will continue to grow at rates well in excess of GDP growth rates.
Demographic changes lifestyle trend the expansion of health insurance programs and the government's pledge to support the development are all factors that make health care in China an attractive place to be.
Second the recent compliance investigations by the government authorities are affecting the promotional activities of certain pharma companies and we expect this to moderate growth in the near term.
However we continue to remain bullish on medium- to longer-term growth and in particular our ability to build on our unique brand of supply chain excellence integrity and service offerings.
Turning to Slide #6 you'll see our consolidated GAAP results for the quarter which include items that reduced our GAAP results by $0.11 per share compared to non-GAAP.
Diluted is $0.09 of amortization and acquisition-related costs which reflects $0.08 of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets.
Also included in this figure is $0.02 of restructuring and employee severance.
In Q1 of last year GAAP results were $0.02 lower than non-GAAP results primarily related to amortization and other acquisition-related costs.
Now I'll talk briefly about guidance for the current fiscal year.
As you know we provided an initial guidance range in our August call of $3.45 to $3.60.
Given the strong operating performance in Q1 we're now raising our range to $3.62 to $3.72.
I will add that it's unusual for us to update guidance this early in our fiscal year given the amount of time that's still ahead of us.
However this year we have made an exception due to our first quarter results and the strength of our operating earnings performance.
Most of the underlying corporate assumptions remain unchanged from our previous comments.
However I do want to mention a few points.
First we're not changing the full year expected tax rate range of approximately 34.5% to 36% that we provided in August because it's really impossible that the favorable impact of the first quarter tax settlements could largely be offset by unfavorable discrete items in future quarters of fiscal 2014.
Put another way quarterly tax rates will fluctuate throughout the year but we expect our full year rate to end up somewhere within the original range we provided.
Let me be clear our changing guidance is unrelated to taxes.
Second we're essentially holding our anticipated diluted weighted average shares outstanding less than or equal to 343 million for the year.
Although I don't like to telegraph exactly what we may do regarding share repurchases I will say that at a minimum we'll offset dilution.
And our existing authorization combined with the new board approval gives us ample flexibility as the year progresses.
Third we reduced our interest and other assumption by $5 million and now assume a range of $140 million to $150 million.
Finally with regards to cash flow and as I noted earlier we were able to realize the majority -- another majority of the working capital benefit from the Walgreens transition in Q1.
This positive cash flow will be partially offset by the continued after-tax loss earnings and a LIFO-related cash tax impact later this year.
The timing of all these moving parts as a result we're seeing most of the positive cash flow early in the year while we expect the offsets to occur through the remainder of the year.
We continue to project that all these moving parts will net to more than $500 million of cash flow for the year.
In closing I would like to thank the Cardinal Health team for a very strong start to fiscal '14.
It is exciting to achieve these levels of growth and margin expansion and it only happens with the hard work and dedication of our employees.
I'm optimistic about the rest the year of as we continue to build on our strategic priorities.
And I'm looking forward to seeing many of you at our Investor and Analyst Day on December 10.
With that let's begin Q&amp;A.
Operator please take our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ross Muken of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So I guess in the pharma business maybe just to start with the quarter can you talk a bit about sort of what you've experienced in the independent channel? Obviously you sort of been in transition there for a number of years post the Kinray buy.
It seems like you have a lot of momentum the customer base you've really done increasingly better with.
There was a big conference recently.
What's sort of been your experience there and how would you think your growth rates kind of compare to market? Yes look as you know we've devoted a lot of energy and a lot of resource in recent years to our retail customer base and diversifying that base as you know.
And I think the commitment is paying off.
We've attracted talent to focus in this area.
Our offerings are broader are more creative allow them to compete.
That's not just in the Pharmaceutical side that's in the front end that's in other tools for example in helping them set up a diabetes center in stores.
So I think we're building capabilities I think that set of customers feel that from us and I think they recognize that we are focusing.
So I would say that we have probably expanded our market share a bit but I'll probably not attribute it to a single thing.
I think it's really sort of a comprehensive effort that has been going on for now a good 4-plus years.
And Mike Coffman and his team have done a great job of strengthening our position in that side of the market.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And you touched upon at the beginning there's obviously a lot of change going on in the industry.
A lot of it in terms of the investor focus continues to be on the procurement of generics obviously something you have a unique perspective on given your background.
I mean as you think about the way you're contracting in markets today and the changes you've made to sort of your generic strategy over time what are the key things you're thinking about as your peers continue to do things that are a little bit atypical from sort of the historical perspective? What are the things you're looking for? What are the things you're trying to focus on to make sure you're competitive in that market? And how are the conversations go with the manufacturers? Obviously it's a little bit of a slippery slope for them in terms of seeding too much price versus what the trade-off is for volume.
Right that's a really good question and probably deserves a very long answer but I'll try to give it a summarized perspective.
Obviously a lot is happening we all know that.
Much of that by the way it's still relatively early stage so it's so hard to discern exactly the implications of all that.
Here's what I'd say about what's happening for us.
Our sourcing program have just simply gotten better every year.
We have a deeper team we've got greater capabilities including really global knowhow.
We work with our manufacturer partners really closely.
I would say if I had to describe one of the changes that's most notable for me is the level of strategic dialogue and discourse that we have with those manufacturers.
And I think we do a really effective job coordinating our sort of upstream and downstream.
I think we do a much better job on connecting the sourcing to our go-to-market model.
So I think there's a lot happening.
Our teams deserve a lot of credit.
They execute really well.
And we've gotten bigger.
And I think that has helped there's a bit of a virtuous cycle that occurs.
But it's not about 1 dimension.
It's not -- obvious scale matters.
Strategic relationships matter.
Awareness of the strength of any given company in any given product area matters.
And understanding how to deal with a market that has occasional disruptions matters.
And so I think we've just done a good job of improving every aspect of the way we think about sourcing both tactically and strategically.
Our next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill.
Research Division</strong> I just really had a couple of questions on the med-surg side of your business.
Clearly you talked about preferred items continuing to see increases there.
What are your expectations over the next year or so? And then secondly any expectations at all as we move into the Affordable Care Act and increasing utilization on that side of your business in your relationships with the hospitals? So let me start with preferred products.
I think in a broader sense we are seeing increasing attention in the provider space among hospitals and the integrated systems on what they call physician preference items.
And I think they recognize that this is an area where efficiency needs to carry the day and that is not historically been the case.
This is an area that we're very focused on.
We've done really well in growing this space.
I would expect that to continue to grow for us.
A lot of our preferred products fall into this category.
And as you know we've done some things to sort of take a step forward in the system.
So for example again our partnership with EMERGE which is really in the orthopedic trauma area while it's early we're seeing real enthusiasm and a lot of demand from our customers on this.
And so we'll continue to roll out that program and I would expect that we'll add additional categories going into the future.
So I expect preferred products to be a driver for us.
On the broader question of our customers it's really a unique time as you know.
There's a huge amount of change a lot of experimentation in the market in terms of trying new models.
And for us I think our ability to touch all parts of this system matters here because I think we can gain insights from being able to connect all the players in the system and start thinking about their solutions from a broader perspective.
It's no longer just simply how do you drop a basis point out of your medical surgical distribution.
It's how do you create solutions that allow them to change the game a little bit because I think more than we're thinking about more significant changes than just focusing on an individual price it's not going to get there alone.
So we -- I think we've done a good job with our sales organization of realigning around those strategic partners.
And we're trying to be very creative very open-minded.
We don't do one-size-fits-all.
And I hope they will see us as a company that you can go to with your basic convection problems and we have some solutions that we can bring.
Research Division</strong> And George when we think about that in the context of margin and maybe this is a question for Jeff if I remember historically your private label Allegiance product has a much better margin.
And so as we think about these preferred products is this a nice margin-enhancing opportunity over the next couple of years? Lisa it's Jeff.
Absolutely.
I mean virtually everything we're doing in the medical space these days is geared towards margin expansion whether it'd be our entry into the Home Health or our focus on providing additional services to our hospital customers or expanding in the surgery centers in physicians' office space and definitely preferred products are very much in the forefront of that as well.
We've said previously that right now with the inclusion of AssuraMed in the overall portfolio our preferred products make up about 20% of the revenue in the medical segment.
From a gross profit standpoint that's closer to the mid-30s.
So just from that you get a pretty good idea of how much higher margin the preferred products are.
Clearly there's opportunities to continue to expand that portfolio very aggressively and it will enable us to drive up the Medical segment profit margin over time.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Bolan of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> So as you think about your portfolio over the next several years how would you characterize the concentration of limited stores generics relative to total brand generic conversion? I know it's a difficult one to predict but just any directional comments will be very very much helpful.
Greg it's George.
I wish I could give you a great answer on that.
I mean I think that we will have and continue to have certain products that have on the generic side characteristics that probably bring fewer number of competitors.
Now that could be a statutory exclusivity.
It could be a court case as one we just saw in a complex drug.
I do think that we see some of the more complex drug posing greater challenges for the manufacturers.
And so there are those that will have the capabilities to do those things and those who are probably working a little bit lower in the spectrum of complexity.
So I would say we'll continue to have a mix of products in our 4 000 generics.
You're probably always going to have 3 500 plus that feel more typically commoditized and then a smaller set whether that's 100 or 200 that have unique characteristics.
I would -- I don't see why -- catalysts for some change there.
I think the characteristics that we're seeing are -- have been seeing for a while are ones that we see at least into the near term.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then just last question as you think about your medical-surgical portfolio we've talked about in the past kind of moving up as it relates to just the I guess the ASP the sophistication of technology or medical equipment that you're offering on a preferred basis.
But any updates that possibly you could give us as it relates to the partnerships you're thinking about maybe with an x U.S.
manufacturer one may be coming to North America or potentially acquiring IPs or the development capabilities? Any commentary there would be very helpful.
Yes probably only general commentary although really good questions.
We're very very much focused in building our preferred product program and we recognize that there are categories that probably have a lot of very mature products and those are places where you'd naturally see some opportunities.
You can imagine that we are exploring many.
We'll probably provide a little more color on this in December when we get together.
But you should assume that we think about this quite broadly rather than a single product line.
We recognize that there are opportunities.
And opportunities to work collaboratively with some well-known companies.
So we're sort of open-minded about hedges but you should assume that we have a wide screen here not an incredibly narrow one.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Jones of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if you guys got into this.
I've been jumping around some calls this morning.
But on the guidance raise I just wanted to confirm Jeff that's all operational? I guess said another way the assumption is that the tax rate goes up considerably for the balance of the year is that right? That's absolutely correct Bob.
We have not changed our full year tax rate assumption one bit.
There will be some volatility in the quarters.
Like we saw in Q1 we had a significant positive benefit we are expecting to see some significant negative benefit potentially later on in the year so it'll average out over the course of the year.
But our assumptions in that regard have not changed one bit.
So the raising guidance was 100% related to operating performance.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one on generic pricing.
It looks like you guys noted flat generic pricing in the quarter.
We've seen similar anecdote across the industry.
I guess what's your view George on what's driving this? And then maybe if you could just help us understand how you're thinking about generic pricing going forward what's reflected in the current guidance that would be helpful.
Yes thanks Bob.
Again you've heard me say this before so I apologize if it sounds like a broken record.
Modeling this going forward is as you know really difficult.
But Jeff did mention that I guess we characterize sort of moderating deflation and in some specific generics inflation.
Again we're talking in general on those about sort of smaller subset of products rather than the broader portfolio.
But nonetheless it can have an impact.
I think in terms of market conditions it's driven by a number of things.
Certainly there's consolidation in the industry.
There've been some real supply challenges as you know heightened inspection intensity a number of things that have given some let's say disturbances to the market or have caused some companies to focus more specifically on a group of products and essentially not others.
So I think those characteristics have -- which we see today are the ones that probably we've been seeing for the last at least 6 months.
And so it's probably a number of things contributing to this environment but that's basically what I would see.
Our next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have a quick question on the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment.
So backing out Express and Walgreens then you get to about 14% organic growth rate for the segment.
Can you give us some color when we think about the Pharmaceutical margin improvement in the quarter? If you can help us quantify or understand what percent of it was really driven by the transition of the lower-margin business versus organic.
Ricky it's Jeff.
Thanks for the question.
First of all let's be clear Express Scripts contract did have a negative profit impact year-on-year for the quarter.
The Walgreens contract actually did not have a material profit impact and that was really due to the nature of the unwind and how various things happened as we were going through the transition.
To answer your question about margin rates I would say there were 3 major contributors to the 29 basis points or so that we saw for the quarter.
The biggest was the overall performance of our generics portfolio.
And then the other 2 were the disappearance of the Express Scripts numbers in this year's quarter and the wind down of the Walgreens contract.
Those were the 3 very significant drivers for the quarter but the biggest was our generics programs.
Research Division</strong> And when you think about kind of like the organic growth should we assume that those rates will continue for the remainder of the year? I'm not going to give you specific guidance on the margin Ricky.
But I would expect that our margin rates year-on-year will continue to show improvement for the course of the year due to the customer mix again obviously we don't have Walgreens anymore going forward but also just because of the continued performance of the overall business.
And our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci of FBR.
Research Division</strong> I had 2 questions.
The first one was just in the med-surg business.
Can you sort of frame the growth that you saw x AssuraMed? And are you seeing any inflection points in utilization in the marketplace that you can perceive? Why don't I start on utilization and then we'll sort of talk generally about how we're doing.
I would still describe the overall utilization environment as relatively soft.
I probably would not be able to say there's been a deterioration since our last call nor would I say there's a discernible uplift.
But I would say still relatively soft.
An exception however would be in the home health space.
I do think that just the forces of the market are going to increase demand in the home.
And we see that and we're continuing to observe a line around those changes.
But we are seeing some really good performance generally.
And Don Casey and his team had done a great job of thinking about the changes in the market and seeing some progress in a number of areas of the business.
Aside of AssuraMed part of it has to do with again delivery of services at the right time in the right place to the right sets of customers.
Jeff I don't know if you want to add to this.
Yes I think the most significant change we saw in this quarter was really the growth in our strategic accounts.
And these are generally the larger organic IDN accounts that have considerable networks including both hospitals surgery centers and physicians offices.
And they've been a focus of considerable attention from us over the past while in particular because we're the only player that can fully service the needs of those entire strategic account networks.
And we really saw that pay off are in Q1.
Those accounts were up 8% on the top line which is really I think a validation of our efforts.
And I think what's also important about it is that growth is being driven by very often them choosing to increase their preferred product portfolio to increase the services that they're buying from us et cetera.
Because they're really seeing opportunities by increasing their portfolio purchases from us to increase the efficiency of their supply chain network.
So I would say that was probably the most significant change that we saw in Q1.
Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up George I appreciate your comments sort of about the landscape and the evolving world that we're in.
You talked a little bit about your perspective vis--vis the manufacturer.
Can you tell us anything about the conversations or the questions you're being asked from customers in light of what your competitors are doing out there? From customers or from our manufacturer partners? Research Division</strong> No no.
You certainly talked a little bit about manufacturer before so I was really thinking about retailers et cetera what they're thinking or saying to you? Yes as it relates to our broad base of customers I would still say that a lot of the things that all of us are talking about here on this call are not generally their day-to-day worry.
Their day-to-day worry is competing in a unique time with some formidable competitors with challenging reimbursement rates and all the dynamics around how they compete in their communities.
I would say that that's primarily the conversations that we have with them is about how do we help them compete and do their work rather than a lot of conversation about what's happening upstream.
I would say it's not typically -- obviously they're aware of it but it's still early to even -- for them to even discern how that may or may not impact them.
And so I think right now they're really focused on day-to-day competition how do they do it and how do we help them.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette of UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's Steve Valiquette.
So I'm also trying to juggle 3 calls at once so I'm not sure I've quite mastered that skill yet.
But just a couple of things from the press release you mentioned that both generic and branded programs showed strong performance.
Would you characterize it further that maybe one of those was a bigger contributor than the other? There's been a lot of talk around generic inflation tailwinds.
I'm wondering if that was maybe a bigger part versus branded? Yes sorry go ahead.
That wasn't us that was cutting you off sorry Steve.
But I will answer your question and then you can continue if you'd like.
For the quarter generics programs were a bigger contributor than branded programs but I would describe both of their contributions as meaningful for the quarter.
But we were pleased with the entire product portfolio.
By the way we're also pleased with the progress in nuclear and specialty as well which really together as a group made up the pharma results.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I don't want to ask a redundant question but did anybody ask about the revenue upside in the quarter? It was pretty meaningful versus consensus and I'm just trying to get a sense for whether that was maybe just some over time from maybe Walgreens on the roll off of that or just other factors maybe just strength within the existing customer base or just as generic erosion is not quite as severe now that we're anniversary-ing the big wave from 2012 is that part of it as well? That's a good question Steve.
First of all it wasn't because of Walgreens.
Actually the Walgreens revenue transition happened exactly as expected.
And as I mentioned it actually was worth the $1.7 billion of decrease year-on-year for the quarter.
I would say the other factors you mentioned though were all drivers.
First of all we did pick up some incremental business with existing customers as well as some new business.
We saw good volume growth organically with our existing customers.
We did see a little bit stronger brand inflation than we had budgeted for.
And as I said just generic deflation was probably a little bit more moderate than we expected as well.
And then on top of that specialty had a nice pick up in Q1 as well from a revenue standpoint.
So I'd say all those were contributors to an above-expectation performance.
Our next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification regarding the EPS range for the remainder of the year.
I know Jeff you said that guidance excludes tax benefit.
But can you just clarify that that applies to $2.70 to $2.80 for the remainder of the year? Just to be clear the guidance does include the $0.18 tax benefit in Q1 but it also includes an expectation that that will largely be offset later in the year by negative tax adjustments.
So net-net all the tax is in there but when you net them all against each other they end up back at where we expected the tax range to be for the year which is 34.5% to 36%.
Well my comment was that the change in the guidance range going from $3.45 to $3.60 to $3.62 to $3.72 was in no way linked to any changes in our assumptions about taxes.
Really the tax situation this year is really just a matter of timing in the quarters.
Our basic expectation for taxes has not change at all.
Research Division</strong> So can you just help me through it because I'm a little bit slow on that.
What does that imply for the remainder of the year? Because I get 2 ranges either $2.70 to $2.80 or $2.52 to $2.62.
The range you should be assuming including taxes $3.62 to $3.72.
What that implies though is that in a future quarter we would likely have a significant negative tax impact which will offset the positive that we saw in Q1 and so those largely net against each other.
But the $3.62 to $3.72 is the right range.
And our next question comes from the line of Glen Santangelo with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> George I just wanted to follow up on some of the commentary you made with respect to generic pricing.
Kind of sounds like you've been talking about more moderating deflation rates now for a couple few quarters.
I'm kind of curious to see if you're willing to call that a trend at this point.
And then this quarter it seems like a couple of you have called out certain supply disruptions and I'm kind of curious as to what's been driving the margin more.
Is it the supply disruptions or is it the moderating rate of deflation? Well it's a hard one to answer.
Let me try Glen.
I think the pattern that we've seen we have seen now for quite some time deflation on the bulk of products on the bulk of products largely as expected.
On a few products that we modeled the deflation was lower.
And then on a few products we actually saw some inflation.
So that is -- those are sort of the big moving pieces.
There are thousands of pieces in that equation but I think that is the pattern that we've seen.
And I'm not sure it's changed dramatically.
And again the question is when you say trend like would I model it going forward in the future I would say right now there's nothing in the market we're seeing that's going to change that basic competition is as it is.
We will very carefully watch every court case to see whether or not that -- we had one recently -- affect the number of competitors in a given product.
But it has been a pattern that we've seen for some time.
So as we talk about disruption I really put that in the context more of whether or not there is some sets of products where competition seems more limited.
And I think what can happen when you have some supply disruptions is the market that maybe had 6 or 7 players now has 3 or 4 or 2 or 3.
And that may have a tendency to stabilize prices in that set of products.
And I think we have seen some of that over the last couple of years.
You've seen some well-publicized cases of some companies going through some facility issues.
FDA as you know has done more for foreign inspection in recent years.
And so I think that is a part of our current environment.
And I expect that to continue.
And so that's partly what we're seeing.
How to tell you exactly how much is attributable to a disruption versus just sort of competitive behavior would be really hard to discern.
I just think it's part of the general environment that we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Maybe if I could just ask one follow-up.
I know you don't want to comment on calendar '14 and '15 but as you look at the patent expiration schedule over those -- over the next 24 months we on The Street all have the tendency to want to look at the dollar value of brand going generic.
Do one of those 2 years look bigger to you or bigger opportunity for you versus the other or they both look good or neither as good as what we saw in the past couple of years? How would you characterize it? Yes so it's really early.
I'm sorry can't give you a full answer on this one.
It's -- we just started our '14 it's hard to characterize '15.
I think if we go back to the beginning of our year we talked about the pattern we probably saw '15 not altogether different than '14 but that was really in our fiscal year.
It will be hard for me sort of off the top of my head to sort of give you a quick answer and probably would be a little bit hesitant to do so at this stage anyway.
It's very early.
But I would remind you of this and I think maybe our current performance highlights that.
Jeff mentioned that our contribution from new products was actually less in this period and yet we had a very strong generic performance.
So I guess I'd remind you that while generic launches influence our performance there are a lot of other things that actually contribute to how we generate growth and profits under our generic program.
And we've been able to do that even in the face of what I guess you would call a headwind on new launch values.
So that's just sort of a reminder.
Our next question comes from the line of John Kreger of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> George you mentioned specialty as a contributor.
Was most of that coming from oncology or are you seeing nice growth in the other therapeutic classes as well? Yes John I think we're seeing growth everywhere but oncology was probably the biggest driver in this particular period.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then a follow-up on medical if you're willing.
Could you give us a sense of how your operating income across medical breaks down into some of your key client categories? I'm thinking home care now that you have AssuraMed versus institutional versus perhaps ambulatory? I'm not going to give you specifics John because we don't break it down that way publicly.
I would still say our hospital and hospital-related business is the largest chunk of both revenue and earnings followed by Home Health now with the addition of AssuraMed followed by sort of pure ambulatory physicians offices et cetera that are unrelated to large IDN.
That's sort of the rough order.
Obviously the biggest change there has been the big step up in Home Health over the last couple of months with the inclusion of AssuraMed.
I think I'll probably add that the rates don't necessarily follow that pattern.
So the rates would probably be higher in the more ambulatory settings where the cost to serve and the requirements how you do that the pick/pack operations and everything else is quite different.
So I would say the rates are probably -- I'm not sure they're completely inverted but more on the home ambulatory as you move back towards the big items.
Our next question comes from the line of John Ransom of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sorry if I missed this but could you Jeff could you help us understand the next 3 quarter effect of not having Walgreens in your numbers from an EPS standpoint? Probably not is the honest answer.
I'm always a little bit low to give directly attributable to a customer and I'm sure Walgreens wouldn't appreciate that either.
But I will say it's probably a repeat of what I said earlier Q1 there was very little if any earnings impact just given the nature of the wind down despite the fact that revenue was down $1.7 billion.
That will not be the case for the next 3 quarters of this year or the first quarter of next year until we lap it.
There will be a meaningful both revenue and earnings impact but all that impact has been reflected in our guidance from day 1 and continues to be reflected in our guidance.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That was a math question.
You gave me an essay.
I was a lit major.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> English major obviously.
Okay.
And then George I know you touched on this but just to kind of reset obviously your 2 competitors have done large deals overseas trying to move toward global sourcing.
You obviously ran a big generics supplier.
Is there a card for you to play here potentially or did you just not see the need for it? And what do you think the -- is there an opportunity cost in not pursuing what your competitors have been doing? Yes so as I'm going to give you of course an answer.
You're going to hate it because it's going to be quite general but I think we'll have to go with that.
Which is right now we're competing very effectively and I like where we are.
You can imagine that we're not sitting still.
We have a pretty broad-based knowledge base of what's happening in markets around the world.
There's very little that we don't explore.
So as I mentioned I think we are well positioned but we are going to stay very open-minded about new ways to create value and -- but that has to be real value for customers and our suppliers and obviously for our shareholders.
So we'll -- I guess what I would say is I think there are chess pieces always available and we'll keep our hands on those chess pieces.
But we'll deploy capital with an open mind but I'd say with sort of a disciplined hand always conscious of making sure that we're in the most competitive position.
I know it's a very broad answer but that's the best I can do for now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fine.
And then shifting into a little more of a micro topic.
How far -- if you look say 5 years out in the U.S.
and think about cost containment pressures intensifying how far off the value curve do you think let's say off-brand devices could get to? I mean could we start talking about the equivalent of generic knees and hips and things like that or do you think there's a limit to what can be done there? Yes so I'm not going to give you a specific answer but I think it is reasonable to assume that we might view that we need both innovative medical devices which continue to be developed.
And I think actually some of the pressures will to be -- to develop more of them.
But I think on mature products that we do need given the cost containment pressures some way of bringing greater competition to those products we are on that issue.
We understand that.
I think your question is right on the mark.
And it's not certainly complete analog to what we see in generics where you have sort of a mechanism that we call an AB rating that creates the go-to-market model.
But I do think there are ways to do this but it requires I think unique sets of skills.
Those are clinical skills that we're building that requires a go-to-market strategy.
And you need to be doing it based on data and not just on a wish.
And so we're doing all those things to put ourselves in a position to help support a system that probably needs some ways to reduce costs on some of these older more mature products.
Our last question comes from the line of Eric Coldwell of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> George I see Teva's looking for a new CEO.
You're not getting antsy on us are you? I had a very public comment yesterday explaining that I was not a candidate.
As you know I've got great admiration for all that they do and had great experience there.
I'm having a great time leading Cardinal Health and very committed to seeing our continued progress.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Well that really wasn't a trick that really wasn't a trick.
But the quarter was a treat good job.
3 questions on specialty.
I'll make it 1 question wrapped into 3 subparts.
First off I missed the growth rates.
Second of all can you give us a sense on where the oncology growth share is coming from and what's the nature of that business community hospital other? And then third part if distribution growth is accelerating more than services growth around specialty does that lead to margin compression in the group or are you getting scale efficiencies that can allow overall specialty profitability to improve? Let's start with Jeff.
Eric it's Jeff.
Let me start.
We didn't give the number for specialty but I'll give it to you now.
Our Specialty Solutions group grew revenue 41% in Q1.
George do you want to take it from there? Yes I would say primarily it's coming in the community setting for now.
Here's what I'd say.
I think we're getting additional scale in distribution which gives us additional positioning and just sort of credibility in the offices.
I do think that the services that wrap around this work is always critical.
I think many of us can do distribution and I think we certainly established ourselves as a very credible and now a scale-based player in the distribution side.
But I think it's very important to be able to deliver the kind of services that can help them in a very different world.
And that's where things like our PathWare tools and other tools that help sort of connect these 3 players with the patients.
Obviously the 3 players being the biopharma company the provider and the payor.
But I think the wraparound services are very important for us.
Research Division</strong> And generically on the margin profile faster growth in distribution does that weigh on the profile or are you getting scale efficiencies there? I think we expected our growth on the distribution side to be heavier.
It's the nature of it.
Obviously distribution margin's relative certain kinds of service margins are lower.
But it's not negatively affecting our projection and how we expected this growth to occur.
This is sort of as we saw it we're pleased to see the growth on the revenue side because it just means we're getting more presence.
All right.
Listen I think we're going to wrap up the call.
So first those of you who know Sally is a rabid Red Sox fan.
So we've been just trying to keep her on the ground today she's a little excited.
I'll just conclude by saying it's been an excellent excellent start I think to fiscal '14.
And we really look forward to seeing all of you.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to seeing you in December and thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.
Good day and welcome to the Cardinal Health Second Quarter Fiscal 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Sally Curley Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kerry and welcome to Cardinal Health's earnings conference call this morning.
Today we will be making forward-looking statements.
The matters addressed in the statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to the SEC filings in the forward-looking statements slide at the beginning of the presentation found on the Investor page of our website for a description of those risks and uncertainties.
In addition we will reference non-GAAP financial measures and information about these measures is included at the end of the slides.
I'd also like to take the time this morning to remind you of a few upcoming investment conferences and events.
We will be attending one-on-one meetings at the Citigroup Global Healthcare Conference on February 25 and the RBC Global Healthcare Conference on February 26 which are both in New York and on March 3 at the Cowen Annual Healthcare Conference in Boston.
In addition we will be webcasting our presentations at the Raymond James Institutional Investors Conference on March 4 in Orlando Florida and at the Barclays Global Healthcare Conference on March 13 in Miami Florida.
Details for the 2 webcasts and events are or will be posted in the IR section of our website at cardinalhealth.com so please make sure to visit the site often for updated information.
We look forward to seeing you at an upcoming event.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO George Barrett.
George? Thanks Sally and good morning to everyone.
We had a very strong second quarter operating performance closing out an excellent first half to our fiscal 2014 so let's get started.
Total revenues for the second quarter were approximately $22 billion.
The decline was 12% as our revenue line no longer included any sales from the Walgreens supply agreement.
Net of this we experienced growth with existing customers and contribution from the business.
We achieved a very solid increase in our non-GAAP operating earnings.
In a quarter where we felt the full impact of no longer serving Walgreens we were able to achieve a 10% increase in non-GAAP operating earnings.
Our gross margin rate expanded by 120 basis points to 6% in the quarter from 4.8% last year and our gross margin dollars increased by 10%.
I will note here that we achieved strong margin expansion and operating profit increases in both our Pharmaceutical and Medical segments.
Our second quarter non-GAAP diluted EPS was $0.90 down from $0.93 last year.
This decline however includes a charge of $0.16 per share related to a tax reserve.
We had mentioned this on our first quarter call and said that it could occur as early as second quarter.
As you may recall our first quarter EPS had an $0.18 benefit from the resolution of some historical tax matter.
Note that for the first half of our fiscal 2014 non-GAAP EPS stands at $2.00 an increase of 15% versus last year after the puts and takes of those discrete tax adjustments.
So based on our year-to-date result and the strength of our operating performance we are now raising our guidance to a new range of $3.75 to $3.85 for fiscal 2014 non-GAAP EPS.
Before we talk about the segments in more detail let me take just a few minutes to discuss our joint venture with CVS Caremark which we announced in December.
You may remember that during our last earnings conference call I talked about some of the changes in our marketplace and noted that we had been evaluating and would continue to evaluate all options to sustain and expand our competitive advantage and to deliver meaningful and lasting values for our customers and our supplier partners and our shareholder.
We believe that the CVS Caremark joint venture accomplishes those objectives.
We created a purchasing combination of tremendous scale which we know is critical in generic.
It allows us to bring together 2 of the most knowledgeable and experienced generic-sourcing teams in the world.
The 50-50 venture is structurally straightforward.
We're not changing the service model or our operating platform.
The venture is focused solely on global sourcing for the U.S.
market.
It allows our 2 companies to pursue our independent strategies to serve our own distinct customers as we see fit and we will accomplish this while maintaining the capital flexibility to continue to invest in other growth and high-return alternatives.
We believe there will be opportunities to work strategically and collaboratively with our generic manufacturer partners to explore new ways to create value.
Finally as we announced in December our teams are hard at work with the goal of being operational as early as July.
Now onto the segments.
Our Pharmaceutical segment delivered solid profit growth of 9% on a revenue decline of 15%.
We were pleased to see this strong volume growth from new and existing customers.
Our segment margin expanded by 54 basis points driven by the strength of both generic and branded programs and by the product and customer mix initiatives that have been an important part of our strategy for the past few years.
I'd like to take a moment to discuss our presence in retail pharmacy.
Of course we were very excited to announce the extension of the CVS service agreement for an additional 3 years through June of 2019.
We remain deeply committed to retail pharmacy.
Whether that is delivered through a chain drug a food and drug retailer or one of our thousands of independent pharmacy customers we believe that pharmacy must and will play a more vital role in the delivery of health care.
With this in mind we will continue to deliver best-in-class products and services to ensure that our pharmacy customers can serve this valuable role in an evolving health care system.
Our Specialty Solutions team continues to deliver robust growth validating our perspective that working at the intersection of the provider biopharmaceutical manufacturer and payer will be important for the future.
Over these past 3 years it has been important for us to build scale in specialty distribution in order to enable greater touch points with clinicians.
Now that we've achieved critical mass and through building out more services operational and clinical to serve these providers we are beginning to realize some of the benefits.
At the same time our Specialty Solutions team has been gaining momentum with our biopharmaceutical partner.
We are increasingly able to offer the innovative clinical capabilities these manufacturers require to serve patients who often have distinct needs and at the same time navigate a complex reimbursement environment.
And we've created the teams and made the moves to build a best-in-class patient-centric hub serving the needs of patients and reinforcing the work of our manufacturer partners.
Finally on Specialty we're seeing an increasing interest among payers who want to see better alignment in the system to improve cost-effectiveness.
Our Medical segment performance was strong.
Revenue was up 13% to $2.8 billion and segment profit increased 40%.
The largest contributor to that growth came from our AssuraMed acquisition the centerpiece of our strategy to serve patients in the home.
Although acute-care utilization remains somewhat soft we experienced growth in our existing customer base and increased penetration in our targeted strategic accounts [ph].
Our ability to provide new service offerings is extremely important as our customers take on new configurations and experience different economic and regulatory forces.
Building our preferred products portfolio remains a top priority and a high priority for our customer.
Our ability to grow here addresses an important pain point for our customers hospitals and ambulatory and we are committed to providing a comprehensive solution set and this goes beyond the products and includes services and analytics.
Customer response has been strong and we will continue to add to our growing portfolio of clinical alternatives to mature medical devices.
Our medical consumables line continues to gain solid traction.
Our product launch rate in the first 6 months of fiscal 2014 was considerably higher than we've ever had.
We're moving quickly to add high-quality high-value options for the customer.
Looking forward we believe we can increase our medical consumable penetration in nontraditional medical channels such as home health and long-term care.
As we look to home health AssuraMed reported a very solid quarter again outperforming our ideal [ph] model.
We remain very committed to following the patient to the home.
The demographics are inescapable and the cost-effectiveness of keeping patients well cared for in the home is hard to dispute.
To help support our strategy of serving patients in the home during this past quarter we made 2 tuck-in acquisitions in the urology incontinence and ostomy care area and we'll continue to look for opportunities to draw on the strength of this platform.
Turning to China.
We had another quarter of very strong growth on both the revenue and profit line.
The sales run rate for this business is now approximately $2.5 billion and we feel very optimistic about its growth.
China is a unique market going through a very rapid evolution.
We continue to play out our strategy here of enlarging our geographic footprint creating new business partnership and bringing our expertise to new opportunities such as direct-to-patient.
We finished the quarter with 28 direct-to-patient or DTP specialty pharmacies as we move toward our goal of at least 50 across the country an example of an innovative health care solution to delivering high-cost specialty drug to the patient's hand.
We also completed the acquisition of a specialty retail pharmacy company during the quarter that combined with our existing retail pharmacies gives us national coverage and e-commerce capabilities.
We will continue to expand this chronic care work with a focus on very disease-centric patient support models.
Let me conclude by saying that this is a period of extraordinary change for health care and for Cardinal Health.
It's uncommon to experience a moment like this a moment which requires those of us who have the privilege and the responsibility of being in health care to demonstrate our ability to innovate and to evolve in a way which can move us toward a system which is higher quality and more cost-effective.
I thank our people for demonstrating the readiness to step up to that challenge and for their fine performance.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks George and hello everyone.
This morning I'll be reviewing the drivers of second quarter performance and will provide additional detail on the full year including our decision to raise our fiscal '14 guidance range.
You can refer to the slide presentation posted on our website as a guide to this discussion.
Let's start with consolidated results for the quarter.
We reported a 10% increase in non-GAAP operating earnings in our fiscal '14 second quarter versus the prior-year period driven by margin expansion across both of our reporting segments.
Our non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.90 outperformed our expectations but were slightly down compared to the prior-year period.
This decline was driven by an anticipated discrete tax charge of $56 million based on proposed assessments of additional tax.
This unusual $0.16 per share unfavorable impact was triggered in Q2 and mostly offset the favorable tax settlement gain of $0.18 per share in Q1 of this year.
Including this unfavorable impact Q2 non-GAAP earnings per share grew a robust 14% a great quarter of growth.
Again to be clear both the Q1 positive $0.18 tax benefit and this Q2 $0.16 tax charge essentially offset each other and both have been contemplated in our guidance since the beginning of the year.
We mentioned this in our Q1 call.
I'll now go through the rest of the income statement in a little bit more detail starting with revenue.
Consolidated sales were down 12% to $22.2 billion which was better than we expected.
The decline was due to the expiration of the Walgreens contract which was partially offset by sales growth from new and existing customers.
Gross margin dollars increased 10% to 6% of revenue with the rate up a strong 120 basis points versus prior year.
This continues our 3.5-year trend of margin expansion.
SG&amp;A expenses rose 10% in Q2 primarily driven by acquisitions including AssuraMed as well as increase in incremental incentive compensation accruals related to the company's over-performance.
Our core SG&amp;A was essentially flat year-over-year evidence of our enterprise-wide commitment to controlling costs and improving the efficiency of our operations while continuing to invest in our key strategic priority.
Our consolidated non-GAAP operating margin rate increased 52 basis points to 2.6%.
We have now posted operating margins greater than 2% in 4 of the last 5 quarters and we are making progress towards our longer-term aspiration of consolidated non-GAAP operating margin greater than 3%.
You'll notice that our net interest and other expense came in $4 million higher in Q2 than in the prior year's quarter.
This was mostly due to the new $1.3 billion of debt we issued in February of last year associated with the AssuraMed acquisition.
Non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 43.3% versus the prior year's 36.8%.
This unusually higher rate was primarily driven by the discrete $56 million tax charge I mentioned earlier.
Please note that this amount only affects our tax line and has no impact on operating earnings or the segment results.
As I had mentioned previously we anticipate both a positive tax impact in the first quarter and the Q2 unfavorable impact when we originally provided our FY '14 tax guidance range.
I'll speak about update in that range in a moment.
Our diluted weighted average shares outstanding were 346.2 million for the second quarter which is about 3 million shares higher than last year.
Fiscal year-to-date we repurchased $50 million worth of shares all in Q1.
And at the end of December we had $1.35 billion remaining on our board-authorized repurchase program.
We'll update you on share count assumptions for the full year later in my prepared remarks.
Now let's discuss the consolidated cash flows in the balance sheet.
We generated approximately $40 million in operating cash flow in the quarter.
Year-to-date operating cash flow of almost $1 billion is about where we expect to be given the unwinding of the Walgreens contract.
Of note the net working capital component from that unwind is essentially complete.
And as a reminder there typically is a large degree of operating cash flow variability in sequential quarters.
Moving on at the end of Q2 we had $2.7 billion in cash in our balance sheet which includes $446 million held internationally.
Our working capital days decreased versus prior year primarily due to the expiration of the Walgreens contract.
Now let's move to segment performance.
I'll discuss Pharma first.
Pharma segment revenue came in better than we expected.
However it did post a decrease of almost 15% versus the prior year period to $19.4 billion.
This is the first period where we reported a full quarter of revenue loss in Walgreens which amounts to just over $5 billion.
This was partially offset by sales growth from new and existing customers.
Pharma segment profit increased by 9% to $482 million driven by strong performance from both of our generic programs and branded agreement including the impact of price inflation.
This was partially offset by the expiration of the Walgreens contract.
Unlike our first quarter this quarter reflects the full operating earnings impact of this expiration.
I'll also note that each of our Pharma segment businesses had strong profit growth compared to the prior-year period.
With respect to generics sales and profits from our generics programs exhibited very good year-over-year growth in the quarter.
This is a result of the emphasis we have placed on building the strength of our programs over the last several years the overall robustness of the market and the effect of price inflation.
I'll also note that as anticipated we did see less contribution from new generic launches in this year's quarter versus the prior-year period.
For the second quarter in a row the generic deflation rate was essentially flat year-on-year.
I do want to note that our generic performance this year has included what we believe to be abnormally high inflation on a relatively small basket of products.
Because generic pharmaceutical pricing is still difficult to predict we remain relatively conservative in our forecasting for this segment.
In addition we saw strong performance under our branded pharma contract with brand inflation in the low-double digit which was slightly better than we expected.
We also saw a few branded price increases that occurred late in our second quarter which we had modeled to occur during our Q3.
Pharma segment profit margin rate increased by 54 basis points compared to the prior year's Q2.
And moving onto Medical segment performance.
Medical revenue growth was up 13% versus last year.
Home health reflecting our AssuraMed acquisition was the primary driver of revenue growth in the quarter.
As a reminder we will lap this acquisition in our third quarter.
And given that it's becoming increasingly integrated into our operation we will not call it out separately starting in Q4.
We also saw volume growth from our existing customer base as we continue to focus on strategic hospital network accounts which tend to utilize more of our products and services to drive efficiency in their supply chain.
Our strategic accounts grew 7% for the period.
Medical segment profit grew a robust 40% in Q2 primarily driven by the performance of our home health platform AssuraMed.
As George said the AssuraMed integration has done very well and we are on-track to achieve our original estimate of at least $0.18 of non-GAAP EPS accretion for the full year.
Other factors positively impacting segment profit included contribution from planned efficiency initiatives and preferred product.
Partially offsetting the Medical segment profit growth was a year-over-year increase in incentive compensation much of which is based on total company performance and allocated to the segment.
Now a quick note on Cardinal Health China a business which spans both of our reporting segments.
Our business in China again posted strong double-digit revenue growth for the quarter up 37% and we saw solid margin expansion.
Let me pause for a moment to comment on the overall pharma market in China which has been experiencing some turbulence recently.
Based on external estimates it appears that the market was growing at a rate in the mid- to high-teens in the first half of calendar 2013.
Due largely to the impact of some government regulatory actions to improve the integrity of the system the growth rate dropped to high-single digits in the second half of calendar '13.
However we are starting to see some signs of recovery and forecasts point to a return to mid-teens growth in calendar '14.
Turning to Slide #6 you'll see our consolidated GAAP results for the quarter which include items that reduced our GAAP results by $0.11 per share compared to non-GAAP.
Included is $0.10 of amortization and acquisition-related costs.
Also included in this figure are $0.02 for restructuring and employee severance and $0.02 of impairment on loss on disposals of assets.
In Q2 of last year GAAP results were $0.05 lower than non-GAAP results primarily related to amortization and other acquisition-related costs.
Now I'll talk briefly about guidance for the current fiscal year.
Given the strong operating performance in the first half of the year and our outlook for the next 6 months we are raising our non-GAAP EPS range to $3.75 to $3.85.
We are also updating a few of our underlying corporate assumptions.
First we are increasing our anticipated diluted weighted average shares outstanding to a range of 345 million to 347 million for the year.
A few reasons for this.
We are forecasting a fair amount of option dilution in the second half of the fiscal year.
Also we are limited in how often we can go to market to buy back shares during the first half of the year.
We still plan of repurchasing shares worth at least a couple hundred million dollars in the second half with exact timing and amount to be determined based on the market and other factors.
Given all this we have incorporated a range of possible share count outcomes in our EPS guidance.
Second we are reducing our interest and other assumption but widening the range to $105 million to $130 million due to a possible gain on an investment which may impact the second half of the fiscal year.
Third we had a slight increase in the expected amortization of intangible-related assets to approximately $184 million or about $0.34 per share which captures a few small tuck-ins we completed in the quarter.
Lastly we are revising the full-year expected tax rate range to 35% to 36%.
The large discrete items we anticipated for the year have now been booked in the first half.
We do expect a higher tax rate in the second half of fiscal '14 compared to the first half.
As we look to the second half I wanted to point out a few other differences versus the first half of fiscal 2014.
First we had about a full quarter of earnings from Walgreens in Q1.
Second we believe that the amount and rate of generic inflation in the first half of the year was unusually high [indiscernible] with a more moderate impact in the second half.
Third recall that when we announced the CVS JV we knew there would be some related costs during the second half of fiscal 2014.
Finally Q3 is typically our strongest quarter for brand inflation and we expect that to happen again this year.
However we did see inflation on a few products in Q2 that we had modeled in Q3.
That may skew our usual seasonal earnings pattern in Pharma somewhat.
But most importantly we continue to expect to build on the momentum of our strong business and particularly our areas of strategic emphasis.
In closing I would like to thank the Cardinal Health team for a very strong first half.
Their tenacity and execution against our strategic priorities continues to pay dividend.
I'm looking forward to the second half of fiscal 2014.
With that let's begin Q&amp;A.
Operator our first question? [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Zack in for Ricky.
I wanted to start by asking about generic inflation and your assumptions for the second half.
There was news last week that Ranbaxy had an import ban on one of their plants and just curious on your thoughts on how that might impact generic inflation and if that's considered in your more modest guidance for the second half? Yes sure.
Why don't I take it? I'll touch on first the general environment and then -- and maybe a little bit more specific around Ranbaxy.
So let's start with this.
We've indicated and you've heard and Jeff reiterated that it's been a bit of an unusual stretch in pricing.
We've seen price increases on a number of products and the number is above what we have historically seen.
But I'd remind you here that we carry thousands of generic products and so when we look at this period fewer than 5% of these products are experiencing meaningful price increases.
So just again recognize that it's a relatively small subset of the generic portfolio.
It is difficult and Jeff said this to predict as you look forward.
I think just taking the appropriate assumption here that the recent months have been somewhat unusual and that this dynamic moderates going forward.
As it relates to the Ranbaxy problems again this is a by-product of some work that we've seen with FDA.
The FDA certainly increased its capacity to do inspections outside of the U.S.
Clearly for some companies that has posed a challenge or a spill-in [ph] for the certain facilities.
We as you would imagine are very careful to make sure that we stay on top of all the global supply dynamics and in many cases utilize multiple sources as a result.
I would not say that the specific story around Ranbaxy will have any impact on our business as we look to the rest of the year and going forward.
So it's -- they're a player in our mix but one of many and won't have any impact on us going into the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just on CVS just curious as you've talked with current customers what their early reaction has been now that it's been 6 weeks or so past the announcement.
And if there's been any indication of more interest in purchasing generics from Cardinal due to this deal? Sure.
So why don't -- again it's George I'll take this again.
We've actually had great support from our customers.
It's been a noisy stretch as you know in the last year.
And I think given some of that noise in the market in many ways it's been reassuring to our customers that we'll always be in the best position to keep them competitive.
And so I would say generally we've had great support.
I would also add that I think making sure that our joint venture was really a 50-50 relationship really told our customers or other customers that no external party would be dictating or influencing our strategy to serve them.
So I would say thus far we've had really good support from our customers.
Our next question comes from Ross Muken with ISI.
Research Division</strong> So I guess the underlying results in Pharma continue to be better.
It's hard to tease out all the components.
It seems like obviously we talked about inflation.
If you had to look at some of the other pieces that have most surprising to you at least in the last maybe 3 or 6 months of development obviously China maybe is not one of them.
But what parts would you say in terms of how the team has executed have been kind of the biggest standouts for you in terms of some of the said [ph] outperformance? Why don't I start and then maybe I'll turn it to Jeff.
So here's -- you know that we have a pretty broad portfolio.
We tend to because of size of certain of our business lines talk only about 1 or 2.
It's very common that that's what happens.
But reality is we have a lot of business lines.
And actually what's been happening is many of them are going well.
It's one of the nice things about having a portfolio you have some [ph] of these puts and takes.
We've been getting some pretty good performance across-the-board.
And so I think that that's really largely what's at work.
So as we said on our Medical business while utilization has been sort of stopped our focus on key strategic accounts and on key business lines on mix has been really helpful to us.
Our team's doing great job there.
On our Pharmaceutical segment we're getting growth in specialty.
Obviously we talked about generics and our work there.
And so I think it's really sort of a balance issue but maybe I'll let Jeff jump in and provide a little more color.
Yes I agree [ph].
As I said in my remarks we really had good performance across-the-board in the Pharma segment.
I mean you briefly mentioned China Ross.
And yes we had a very good quarter in China.
Now we expected that.
We expect very big things from our China operation and albeit it's still a relatively small contributor to the overall profit of the corporation we do expect strong growth there and we very much got it [ph] in spite of the fact that the market was a little turbulent in the quarter.
As George said specialty posted good revenue and profit growth in the quarter.
And we're really seeing our specialty team they've really hit critical mass in terms of distribution size.
They'll take advantage of that positioning to offer other services to manufacturers and providers and payers and that's beginning to drive the profit line for them.
Interestingly we saw better-than-expected results in Nuclear as well and our team there is doing a really good job of responding to a very tough environment.
And we've seen some -- a product in particular do quite well for that business.
So we are seeing some good trends in Nuclear as well.
Yes it was a very encouraging quarter in many respects that we really were hitting on all cylinders in most of the business within Pharma.
Likewise on the Med side I highlighted a few things which were really important to us.
One is the continued growth and impact of our home health platform and the fact that we tried to identify some external asset that we can bolt on to that that are very accretive to us.
So that was the great sign in addition to the growth of the underlying business there.
And the overall growth of that market which is growing looks like somewhere in the 6% to 8% range.
And then finally the 7% growth in strategic accounts is also very important.
And these are accounts by the way that we've identified within our portfolio as being very large networks of hospitals and ambulatory sites that tend to buy a lot of our product and services because of the complex operations and we can provide a host of services and products to them that can help them manage those networks.
And seeing 7% growth in that portfolio was also very encouraging.
So lots of good news to report for the quarter.
Research Division</strong> And maybe you guys were able to kind of attack the whole generic sourcing question in a pretty capital-efficient manner it leaves the balance sheet and your capital deployment capability in a pretty good place.
I mean as you see the tuck-in or midsized M&amp;A environment today how would you sort of characterize it versus where we were I don't know 3 or 6 months ago just in terms of activity and the breadth of targets right now that are still out there for you to analyze? I think it's a fairly attractive environment right now for the types of assets we're looking for.
Particularly now that we've got a year for example of AssuraMed under our belt in terms of integrating that core platform into our business our ability now in turn to find smaller tuck-ins that make sense to bolt-on to that platform has increased.
And as we've been looking for those assets we're certainly pleased by what we've seen including the 2 that we did in Q2.
In China we continue to do small tuck-ins.
We completed 2 more in the second quarter one which really gave us additional geographic expansion into a new region and the other was the one that George referenced that added to our specialty pharmacy network and gave us e-commerce capabilities.
So we'll continue to pursue those types of acquisitions.
I would say though those tend to be relatively small acquisitions but very important to building on our strategy in time.
I'd say more broadly we continue to see small to midsized assets that makes sense for the portfolio.
And to the extent the price is right and the economics makes sense we have the platforms to put them on and we remain encouraged about those possibilities.
We'll move now to Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back to -- on the profit side on the Pharma business.
It clearly feels like we're living in a pretty robust inflation environment on both the branded and generic side.
I guess just bigger picture that trend would obviously seem counter to what we're seeing the push to be in overall health care today around savings.
I guess if maybe you guys separately branded and generic if you could talk a little bit about what do you think is driving this? Is it really more structural? Is it more circumstantial? And then I guess more importantly how sustainable do you think it is in both of those areas? Bob it's a really good question and a hard one to answer.
This is George.
I'll start.
But let me just offer this as a starting point in Pharma which is sort of maybe something we forget often.
In the big picture in the United States our Pharma spend is the smallest part of our challenge when all said and done.
By the way that doesn't mean any individual who's got a very expensive drug that they're -- they've been prescribed doesn't have challenges but we're talking about a small percent of our overall spend.
And actually as you know systemically the growth of Pharmaceutical spend has actually been slowing.
So I do think part -- as you know part of that is sort of the level of generic penetration.
So from a big picture standpoint as a health system actually our bigger challenges are really in our medical system than in Pharmaceuticals.
Now having said that we do think that there are periods that can be a little bit more unusual.
This has been sort of on the generics side probably more noteworthy.
It's really difficult to predict what's going to happen but I do think it's always worth reminding ourselves that when we look at the Pharmaceutical segment really what you have is a huge number of products that are generic and highly generic meaning penetration is extraordinarily high and then a number of typically more specialty drugs that have unique characteristics.
And I think that is a trend that we'll continue to see.
And so I think in a way I think our model we feel very strong about the model.
We're extremely efficient.
We work very well with our manufacturers.
I think our fee-for-service kind of system is working and is working efficiently.
And so as I said sort of in the big picture I think you'd have to look at Pharmaceutical system as relatively efficient across-the-board.
That doesn't mean that individual products wouldn't get some attention for their pricing and we'll just have to continue to watch for them.
But I think in general what we've done in our assumption is moderate our expectations as it relates to inflation just a little bit more to the historical norms and we thought that's the more cautious mode [ph].
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I guess just George following up on the cash position it doesn't seem like again there's a ton baked in on buybacks.
It doesn't seem like that will a big source of deployment at least relative to the current outlook.
I mean is there any more insight you can share with us on your priorities without obviously getting too specific? Are there things on the table right now that have kept you more cautious on getting more aggressive on the buyback? Yes so I don't think for us it's a matter of cautious on buyback.
I think we've always seen a capital deployment strategy that's very focused on returning long-term value to shareholders.
So we've done that through investing in our core activities in the dividend in looking for acquisitions that strengthen our long-term competitive positioning and buyback is as part of the equation.
So that will still be the case.
In terms of priorities I'll let Jeff weigh in a little bit on it as well as it relates to our priorities again we talked about strategic areas that we think are very important and those are going to continue to be areas that we watch carefully.
That doesn't mean there's always going to be the right acquisition opportunity there.
But we've talked about generic we've talked about specialty we've talked about our home health and ambulatory platform we've talked about medical consumables we've talked about Preferred product we've talked about China.
So these are all areas for us that we believe are on the right side of where health care is going.
We'll continue to invest in those.
Jeff I don't know if you want to add anything to it? Yes just 2 other things Bob.
We remain very committed to a dividend.
As you know we view the dividend payout we have as being an important part of the story in conjunction with our earnings story and we're committed to maintaining and growing that dividend over time.
And as I indicated at the Investor Day our target is to remain in the 30% to 35% payout range for our dividend.
With regards to repo the fact that we've done relatively small amounts [indiscernible] as I mentioned $50 million in Q1 really has nothing to do with a reticence to buy back more shares.
It more had to do with timing in the first half of the year.
Our inability for a good chunk of the year really to enter the market because of some pending announcements which have since been announced by the way.
The next question comes from Glen Santangelo with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> George I just want to ask you about the CVS JV.
I mean I think you said in your prepared remarks that you're expecting that to sort of begin in earnest maybe on July 1.
Could you kind of talk about it? If not much is changing with respect to how you buy generics today like what has to happen over the next 6 months to prepare for that? Do you have to unwind certain generic manufacturing purchasing contracts? And if you could just elaborate on that a little bit more.
And then maybe Jeff as we think about the fiscal '15 model I know you don't want to comment on that today but is it reasonable for us to start modeling the payment to CVS in fiscal '15 and maybe incorporating some cost of goods sold benefit within our fiscal '15 estimates? So Glen I'll take the beginning of your question then I'll let Jeff jump in with the second part.
So actually it's a really good question because it's a reminder of how many moving parts there are in a product -- in our product line that are thousands of product families with many many suppliers different length agreements and different buying models.
So it -- I can't go through all the individual details but I think the answer Glen is there are a million of them.
And actually it's sort of the irony as we talk about this is a very straightforward design which I think it is taking out all the operational complexity at least logistical complexity but just simply aligning buying strategies policies procedures existing contracts and commitments is not a small piece of work.
And so we have to do that in a very efficient way.
It's already underway and we feel good about that progress.
But it is a lot of moving parts and I'm really glad that we've got 2 talented teams that know what they're doing.
Glenn it's Jeff.
On the question about payment at the risk of confusing a lot of people let me try to explain how that's going to roll out because it's not -- the actual accounting for the payment is not as straightforward as the actual cash flow.
So as you know we are committed to a payment of $25 million a quarter to CVS starting with the beginning of the joint venture and continuing for a period of 10 years and that's a fixed $25 million payment each quarter.
However the actual accounting for that payment is more of an amortization over time and reflects accrued interest et cetera.
So the actual amount you'll see particularly in the early quarters will be slightly higher than the $25 million payment and really that's because of the way the payment gets discounted and accrued interest grows out over time.
The second point I'll say is that depending on when all the final documentation gets completed with CVS if that happens this year we'll actually start amortizing that payment as early as this year and we expect that to begin as early as the beginning of Q4.
Again hopefully I haven't confused everyone too much on that.
With regards to your second question regarding benefit we did say at our Investor Day that we expect the JV to be accretive to us in our fiscal '15.
We continue to stand by that which means that the benefits we would expect from the JV would more than offset the accounting of the payments next year.
And as I said the accounting of those payments next year will be slightly more than $25 million a quarter.
So that gives you a rough idea sort of our minimum expectations for the benefits next year.
We also do expect that they will phase in over time.
If the JV starts on July 1 we definitely wouldn't expect all the benefits to start on July 1.
It'll take a good part of a year for us to really ramp up to what I would describe as the more full run rate.
Let me just add again with all the millions of moving parts we just described we are really excited about this.
I think we really know that the U.S.
is the largest generic market in the world.
It's a single market it's got secured and known financing systems incredibly important to manufacturers.
And so I'm really excited about being able to put these 2 teams together to do work in this environment.
And we think it's going to create great opportunities for us and for our customers and for our manufacturers so we're excited about it.
Research Division</strong> George maybe if I can just ask one follow-up question on AssuraMed.
In your prepared remarks you seem to suggest that the deal is sort of outperforming your original deal model.
I was wondering if you could elaborate like where's the source of upside coming from? And then Jeff as sort of we think about the outperformance in the quarter I think we're all trying to sort of figure out where the incremental benefit's coming from like how would you stack the potential outperformance of AssuraMed on the current quarter and the decision to raise the guidance for fiscal '14? So Glen I'll start.
Here's what I would say about -- if you remember when we acquired AssuraMed we told you that essentially it has 2 components.
One is basically a B2B business and one is more of a B2C part of the business.
The part that we're seeing more dramatic uptake is in the B2C side.
And so we expected that systemically this would be an area of growth.
We think that their demographics are clear that more patients will be treated in the home.
And then as you also know hospitals will be penalized for readmissions.
And so I do think that we expect sort of systemic growth here.
We also believe that we have a certain kind of scale a tremendous sort of billing capabilities a very high-touch model and that we're an attractive referral here.
So what's happening is we're getting perfect [ph] referrals from physicians from payers that's driving that business and I think our high-touch model really worked.
So I think that's the part of the business that I would say has been driving it and probably outperforming.
So Glen just continuing on that just going through the various elements of the business.
On the Medical side I would say as we said the AssuraMed has outperformed our original view of expectations and it continues to grow very well.
But I wouldn't necessarily say it was the biggest surprise in the quarter.
We expected it to do well and it delivered on that.
Elsewhere on the Med side I think the growth of our strategic accounts has been a very positive surprise for us.
We've invested a lot in those accounts in terms of products and services and we expected good things.
But I think we've seen some growth that is even above what we would've expected so that was great to see.
On the Pharma side I would say there were 4 or 5 areas that performed better than we expected in Q2.
Generic inflation was better as we alluded to.
The core performance of the generics portfolio was better than we expected.
Brand inflation was a little bit better than we expected.
And both specialty and Nuclear outperformed our expectations in Q2.
So I hope you can understand why we're pretty excited about the quarter.
We saw a lot of very good results across-the-board.
It's probably driven by the environment granted but a lot also driven by just the strong performance of our organization.
We'll now move to Charles Rhyee with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe just staying with the Medical for a second here obviously we've talked a lot about AssuraMed can you talk about how we're doing with Preferred products and was that a big contributor in the growth in the strategic accounts? And then really where do we think we're going here in terms of the pipeline of products in terms of sort of what type of technology are we going after at this point? So again I'll start Charles.
Yes I would say the preferred product portfolio is going really well.
I mentioned that our first 6 months was an extremely high run rate relative to anything we've done historically.
Again with again that typically sort of had their waves of product and we had to sort of map that through the year.
We expected good performance and thankfully our teams are really executing on that.
I think this is really as I said earlier it's a pain point for customers -- for our customers.
They have enormously high spend in sort of the complexity of their supply -- number of -- of products that they carry and essentially helping them build a formula that's more efficient is really an opportunity for them.
So this is sort of that classic win-win situation where we believe that we can move share from manufacturers whether that's our own product or someone else's.
We because we move share we capture some of the margin and we can create value for our customers downstream and that's sort of the key to it.
It's going well.
I'm not sure it's the sole explanation for why our strategic accounts are doing well.
I think that's sort of a combination of things.
I think we've identified complex systems who have complex needs.
They're no longer for example simply a hospital and maybe a clinic.
They're now multiple hospitals with multiple clinics and cancer centers and surgery centers and maybe affiliated doctors' offices and I think they're increasingly looking for companies that have the tools to sort of be a solution provider and help them deal with very changing environment.
I think that's been at the heart of it.
I think our team has identified those kinds of customers with those distinct needs.
And I think that's allowed us to do a better job of serving them.
And we're going to work really hard to continue to provide new services and offerings that allow them to compete in a rapidly changing environment.
Jeff anything to add there? Yes I would say Preferred products were a driver of dollar growth in the quarter.
And I think what was also very exciting was the continued increase we're seeing of Preferred products in our overall portfolio as a percent of gross margin.
As you may recall at our Investor Day Don Casey indicated that our target was to get the Preferred products to at least mid-40s% 45% as a percent of gross profit for the segment by fiscal '17.
And for reference he gave a historical number which was in the mid-30%s.
Actually in our Q2 I would describe that percentage mid- to upper-30%s.
So we've already seen a tick up and we expect to continue that trend over the next couple of years as we achieve our target.
So yes there are a lot of things that are driving the overall net margin expansion in Med.
Obviously the growth of the home health platform the growth of strategic accounts and Preferred products were all important drivers of that very impressive margin rate increase in the quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> In terms of the Preferred products I mean in terms of the type of products you're doing I know you're talking about like -- you've talked in the past in the trauma kit.
I don't know you've kind of touched on it in the past here and there.
Any potential to sort of move up the technology ladder or is that something to think about in the future? Yes.
So this really relates I think in many ways to the sort of what we think of as the physician preference items.
We've started -- if there's a spectrum: at one end being products that are extremely highly clinically differentiated; then the other end products that tend to be really not clinically differentiated.
We've sort of focused on the lower end and I think that makes sense as we're sort of building presence and building credibility in the market with this program.
So trauma was a very smart place for us to start.
There's a huge amount of interest from our customers and we're working there up the Ortho line.
Wound management is another area that we've been working on.
So we are carefully analyzing every line with this question of where -- how much clinical differentiation exists in a given product line and where does it not exist.
And I think that's allowed us to start to build sort of a strategy of moving along that spectrum.
And we're still at the sort of early end of that.
But I'm very excited about it.
I think our customers will see a big opportunity if we can continue to execute.
We'll move now to Tom Gallucci with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess just one set of housekeeping item and then another sort of follow up on some other questions that you've already answered.
Just you mentioned the pull-forward of a little brand and price inflation from what you expected in the March quarter.
Can you frame at all what we're talking about there roughly speaking Jeff? It was probably worth a couple of pennies of earnings shift Tom.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess you mentioned a few different times the better growth of your strategic customers on the med-surg side.
And I think George a question or 2 ago you started to get into a little bit of what you're doing there can you just get a little bit more granular? I'm curious about the types of services that you're starting to offer there incrementally to some of these types of accounts? Is it a matter of -- is there buying physicians and you can also service physicians? Or just the mix of things that you're doing would be helpful.
Yes.
Sure Tom.
I mean this is again it's a bit of a long story so I'll try to summarize it.
So obviously we can provide the traditional medical/surgical supplies that we've always been able to do.
We also can support them both in their acute-care centers and in their ambulatory centers within a line of products that includes surgical kits.
We can do freight management.
We can do RFID tagging.
We do consulting on operational excellence.
We do what we call ValueLink which is essentially where we actually stage all the materials in our warehouses so it's a purely truly just-in-time system.
So I think we can tell them we can serve both your acute-care centers we can serve your oncology clinic we can serve your physicians' offices.
So it's a combination of lines of business and touch points across what is an increasingly complex system the entire continuum.
And in many cases we can follow that patient to the home.
And so that's the overall picture.
And I think the more the system integrates the more complexity is introduced into it the more that plays to our ability to say "I think we can provide some solutions to deal with this complexity." Research Division</strong> Right.
And you're clearly gaining business with existing customers.
Are you winning new customers of this nature as well given the breadth of product that you can offer? I would say -- I don't know that there has been a monumental change in market share.
I think we're doing a really good job with our key customers.
I think we've done some segmentation to know who's likely to be a winner and most likely to be able to draw on the tools that we bring.
There's always some movement up and down of customers back and forth.
But I don't think there's been huge share swings as much as it's been our ability to drive value for existing customers as they change their configuration.
I think we have seen a share of wallet changes though within the hospitals where we may have been servicing the hospital itself and we were able to win their large ambulatory network as a result of that experience.
And those are the customers that are actually winning in the market right now these large complex IDNs that have both strong acute settings but also ambulatory settings that are tending to be the hospitals that are winning share in the market and being very successful.
And then obviously those are important customers to win with.
We'll move now to Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-up questions.
First on the drug distribution side of your business I think Jeff you called out in the quarter that you had impact from new customers as well as expanding relationships.
Can you talk about maybe the size of the impact if any of new customers in the quarter? I would say they're a relatively modest size.
There were no huge changes of customers in the quarter.
I would describe them as small to mid-size.
But we continue to make good progress with picking up some new customers and as I said our existing customers showed good growth in the quarter.
So in both respects it was very positive.
Research Division</strong> And the growth of your existing customers is that now that you're distributing more generics distributing more product or is it just the growth of the existing customers that you have? I would say both.
I mean it depends on the customer.
Fortunately we have some very strong customers in the market CVS for example which continues to post very good results and obviously we benefit from that as well.
But in addition we continue to sell customers the opportunities to buy more products from us including generics and we continue to have good success in doing that.
And will continue to be a big theme of ours as we go out to increase our share of wallet with customers if not win some new -- small to mid-size customers.
Research Division</strong> You've also commented a lot say about the hospital network accounts and the ability to build out Preferred products and now there is [ph].
Is there any way to quantify what the white space opportunity is with these accounts number one? And number two where are you taking that business from is that from other smaller distributors are they self-distributing in the hospital today? So let me start.
We probably can't give complete line of sight on the opportunity.
I would say that it's really sort of early days.
So today we're just really scratching the surface on the acute-care side which has been primarily where our Preferred products have been going.
What's really interesting is our customers those 10 customers are beginning to realize that there's real value driver.
Because I think in a sense Lisa it's not going to be enough for people to squeeze 1 more basis point out of a procurement.
What really is going to matter is changing behavior and consolidating the number of products that you use being more efficient about that is a change of behavior that can really be valuable to a system.
The other thing I would note is that we basically have had no Preferred product position in the ambulatory care to-date or in the home very little.
And so I think we see opportunities to expand in the acute-care centers but also in these other channels where basically we haven't really even touched the opportunity.
So we're pretty excited about this because it really is kind of a sort of change of behavior that has material value to our customers versus just squeezing out 1 more basis point from the supply system.
The second part I think Jeff.
I'll let Jeff.
A few comments to add there Lisa.
First of all again because our focus has been on some of these larger more complex accounts those also tend to be the accounts that have been continuing to consolidate bought buy [ph] others.
And obviously we benefit as they buy others whether it'd be smaller hospitals or surgery centers or physician offices and as they continue to get bigger and more complex both our size and our ability to service them there uniquely grows as well.
But from a one point to I'd state in some cases we're doing work that was previously done by the hospital itself.
And really that is a significant goal of ours to help the hospital focus on treating patients and allow us to manage their supply chain in a more comprehensive manner.
And when we can do that that's very much a win-win usually for the hospital and us and then I think in a couple of cases where we've picked up some additional ambulatory business that sort of -- was part of a larger hospital they probably were some smaller players that were servicing those accounts that didn't necessarily have the ability to compete with us on the whole network.
So it's -- all 3 of those have been part of the driving force.
I'd probably just want to add again just as a reminder it is a tough system out there.
So the other thing that we tried to do is really focused on efficiency.
And you've heard us talk about that over the last year.
And so it's both creating the opportunities for those customers and also recognizing that in this kind of system we've got to be incredibly efficient and we work really hard at that.
And we'll move now to George Hill with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess George or Jeff as we look at the inflationary environment in the branded drug space recognizing that the old spec buying days of 2004 and 2005 are behind us.
How should we think about kind of the company's leverage to -- and kind of profit contribution from -- that you're able to capture from this kind of pretty high branded drug inflationary environment? And maybe could you -- can you give us an update on whether we want to think about it on a quarterly or an annual basis how much of operating earnings in the drug segment is coming from your ability to capture a spread on branded drug price increases? Yes.
It's less than 20% of our branded gross margin now.
And I would say overall for the segment it's well under 10% of the gross margin of the segment.
So it's not near the significant swing factor that it would have been 5 or 10 years ago.
And honestly generally we're pretty good at predicting what the impact will be for the full year.
I think the difficulty we always have especially these days is guessing which quarter it's going to be in.
So it does have the ability to swing a quarter fairly materially and as I said the swing from Q3 to Q2 probably was about a $0.02 swing.
But over the course of the year it's a factor but becoming increasingly less of a factor and as I said less than 10% of our gross margin in the segment.
And I would also add that particularly these very expensive drugs -- biopharmaceutical companies are very careful about how they do this and manage it pretty carefully.
So it's not a giant swing factor for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just a quick follow up on the med-surg.
Can you talk about the margin expansion -- kind of the core business x the AssuraMed business? So we talked earlier that AssuraMed's outperforming kind of the acquisition model.
How is the business x AssuraMed performing from a gross margin perspective? Yes I don't want to break down too much here because AssuraMed is pretty much a part of our overall Medical segment.
But obviously it was a significant driver for the quarter.
I would say excluding AssuraMed our revenue growth overall in the Medical segment was in the lower-single digits.
And we felt some slight margin expansion on that.
And that's primarily mix.
We'll move now to John Kreger with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> George can you give us any observations on health care consumption? Did you see any interesting shifts either from a third [ph] perspective or the early impact of the ACA? For that I wish I could answer that one John.
I'm going to try though.
It is been -- and you probably heard this from other companies really difficult to tease out a discernible trend on overall utilization and consumption.
You probably heard some people talk about sort of late year spiking and whether not that might have to do with some benefit design issues around the system.
I've heard people speculate that there were some apprehension about whether or not -- the changes in policy of the Affordable Care Act might influence their future access to -- their position.
And so we tried to sort of look at all that.
But to be really honest we just can't tease it out.
There are so many moving parts so I don't think I could say there's a discernible trend.
What we can say is we see a procedure utilization.
So there are certain things that we can see.
We see in-hospital ambulatory and what I would say is that that trend -- the softness that we're seeing in acute-care procedures is probably one that we would highlight.
But I don't know that I could say we could identify a particular trend right now just because there's so much noise in the system and so many moving parts.
And I think it's just going to take a while for this to shake out.
We've not seen -- I would say any uplift and I'm sure you've heard as you follow the insurers any particular uplift from new patients in the system yet not at this stage.
Just one additional comment on utilization.
We always tend to focus on the hospital and physicians' office settings but I think it's important to keep in mind that we have another very important channel and that's the home and we still see that market growing at a rate of 6% to 8% which is obviously very encouraging and very important going forward.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And just a quick follow-up.
You referenced to some newer customers within pharma.
Are you having -- or seeing any discussions about some of the self-warehousing change shifting any generic purchasing back into the distribution channel? Let me touch that.
I think there is -- I'll do this carefully.
I think there is an interesting evaluation that any company now has to do as it relates to their own scale relative to what's happening systemically.
I do think that may raise some interesting opportunities but I do think that the gap between some of the larger players and the larger purchasers of generics and smallers -- it might be widening.
And so if I am a smaller player now I'd probably have to think carefully about what's the most efficient way for me to source my generic products.
And I do think that given some of the changes in the market there's probably a lot of I would say probably a lot of evaluation going on in many offices to try to figure out the most efficient way given some of the dynamics in the market.
So we're hoping that that represents an opportunity for us but it's too early to say.
We'll move to Greg Bolan with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> So just going back to Charles' earlier question.
George you had mentioned that if you think about the spectrum: to the left not really clinically relevant; to the right very clinically relevant PPIs.
And you talked about the fact that Preferred products are contributing about 35 -- I think you said mid- to upper-30% of medical gross profit.
So is it safe to say that the driver of that increase has really been to the left so the lower end PP -- at the lower end consumables? And I guess as you think about as you move up the technology scale towards the higher end PPIs is that what takes you from say 35% of gross profit to say 45% of gross profit by fiscal '17? Greg it's a good question.
And I think -- I am going to try answer this along 2 dimensions.
Well the first part is yes because you asked about whether or not it's primarily on the lower end the left if we were diagramming it.
I think the answer to that is yes.
It's clearly on the more commoditized end today.
So think about growth our growth plans work along 2 dimensions.
You might even say 3.
Let's say dimension one: Increase penetration with existing accounts who tend to be acute-care hospital focused from as long as [indiscernible] most procedures are.
So that's one dimension.
Second dimension would be our new channels.
So as those opportunities might arise in surgery centers or ambulatory settings that's a second dimension.
And the third which is actually really exciting is moving along that spectrum would be moving upward and to the right towards products that actually when you really examine the data you discover that are probably not clinically all that referenced.
So it's really both going forward with [indiscernible] physician referenced items.
And probably if we look at a time horizon it sort of the new product adding new dimensions is probably a little bit further out as we go and that's from the time respect [ph].
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then -- just real quickly.
How would you characterize the commoditization of PPIs? I mean I'm assuming that's a good guide for you in profitability.
Any kind of update on what you're seeing out in the marketplace George.
Just as it relates to PPIs that were once seen as well PPIs but now becoming more I guess commoditized? I mean stents kind of come to mind but any comments there? Yes certainly not about stents but about the general direction.
Here's what I would say.
I think this is not a new discovery.
I mean I think if you look inside a complex health system they would probably understand that historically the departments sort of ruled and so what happened was every department has their own preferences physicians have their own preferences and the system was able to accommodate that.
But I think it's been understood for quite some time that that probably could be done more efficiently.
Here's a noteworthy change.
The noteworthy change is that given some very different environmental forces the more senior folks in the hospital are more aligned with the fact that something needs to be done about this and I want to actually say that physicians are on board as well.
So I think there's more of an awareness inside that health system with a changing demographic and a changing regulatory environment and changing reimbursement environment that they need to focus on this area of inefficiency and we're helping them do that.
So if that makes sense to you.
So it's not just our promoting it it's hospitals and health systems recognizing that they should take action on it and I think that's probably a noteworthy change over these last year or 2.
We'll move to Steven Valiquette with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So the 54 bps margin expansion in Pharma Distribution was obviously quite strong.
I guess would you say most of that would you say was tied to the core operational improvement? Or is it possible that the rolloff of the lower-margin Y [ph] contract contributed a major portion of that? How would you characterize each of those without getting too specific? Just trying to get a feel for that.
It's Jeff.
I would say there are 3 significant drivers.
The largest one by far was the performance of generics both our core performance and the impact of price inflation.
Second was the rolloff of the WAG which as you would expect was lower-margin business than our average business in pharma.
And then I think third was slightly higher brand inflation than we saw last year in Q2.
Those were all 3 I'd say material drivers in that order.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One other quick one.
Just I think if I heard you right you mentioned that because the just reported quarter was so strong that the historical pattern of the Pharma Distribution results being stronger than March quarter versus the December quarter may not necessarily repeat themselves this time around.
But just to clarify does your comment pertain to the segment operating profit dollars or the operating margins or both when doing that sequential comparison? I was referring to dollars but I was talking specifically about the impact of brand inflation which typically is the biggest driver of our seasonal peak in Q3.
I would say that will be less of a skewing factor this year than perhaps other years.
That make sense? We'll move now to Bob Willoughby with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one.
Will the CVS joint venture have any discernible working capital effect? And also on the inventory build in the quarter a bit surprised I guess with the Walgreens business gone were you not taking title to the Walgreens inventory is that the situation? With respect to Walgreens inventory.
No we were taking title to the Walgreens inventory which is why we recognized the sales on our income statement historically.
But I would say on average we carried fewer days of inventory for Walgreens than I'd say the pharma segment on average.
In part because a good chunk of the Walgreens business was bulk and we would tend to hold bulk inventory for a relatively short period of time.
But had to skew the overall WAG inventory down and make it lower than the overall average.
So that's why you saw an increase because of the mix shift.
Bob I forgot the first part of your question.
Research Division</strong> The CVS JV does it have any balance sheet impact? No it does not.
There is -- under the current structure there is no inventory that flows through the JV.
So really the only asset the JV has are the physical building it's in and the people that reside in there.
The actual product flows flow through the respective companies.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on China I think you mentioned $2.5 billion revenue run rate.
It's at a margin better than the base business was my understanding.
What is the asset base look like for that business now? We haven't disclosed this publicly.
But I will say that assets in general for businesses in China particularly in our space tend to be higher and really referring to working capital.
And that's primarily because receivable days with hospitals just by market convention tend to be longer in China.
They're closer on average to 80 days and obviously they're much shorter in the U.S.
So it is a more working capital-intensive business than our U.S.
business.
That's also by the way why we're looking at other areas to grow into that are much more capital efficient in China.
So for example our direct-to-patient business is a very asset-light business for the most part.
So we continue to look for ways to improve our mix and improve our return on capital.
And we'll take Eric Coldwell with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Most of my topics have been covered at this point but just a couple of quick ones.
Specialty growth I know you said it's strong but I didn't catch the rate.
And if you can talk about what classes of trade and maybe what therapeutic classes you're seeing the best trends in? And then just one quick follow-up.
Yes the revenue growth for Specialty Solutions was 38% in the second quarter which obviously continues the good revenue growth trend we've seen over the past couple of years.
I would say the bulk of our business is still in the oncology space.
We continue to build out into other areas like rheumatoid arthritis and a few other emerging areas.
But the bulk of the growth to-date has been in the oncology space.
Research Division</strong> And Jeff what specific trades to classify [ph] on oncology.
Is it community is it outpatient hospital where are you seeing the biggest demand? Most of that growth is driven by sales through community oncologists.
I will say though that we have seen a shift and it's been a fairly well publicized shift over the past year or so of more infusions happening in hospital settings as the community oncologists have generally shrunk over the past year or so.
That all said the community space is still a very important and robust one and really a very important part of our business and our growth story going forward.
And our final question comes from David Larsen with Leerink.
Research Division</strong> I think if I heard you correctly yes the Walgreens revenue impact was about $5 billion.
So I'm just looking on a year-over-year basis if I back $5 billion out of fiscal 2Q '13 you still beat by like $1.7 billion in terms of top line growth.
And I think you mentioned that the new customers were somewhat modest in size.
Can you just talk about the revenue upside where that came from just generally please? Well I mean modest in size is a relative term right? Just given the nature of pharma it doesn't take a whole lot of customers to have a pretty significant dollar increase in revenue.
And we saw good growth from our existing customers.
It was really a combination of both of those.
But your point that the revenue upside in pharma was a positive surprise to what a lot of people were expecting I would agree with you.
And quite frankly it was better than our plans as well.
And I think that's a testament to our sales teams who have done a great job over the past year going out and letting customers know what we have to offer offering creative solutions and [indiscernible] pick up share of wallet.
So yes I think the underlying trend that you pointed out was a very positive one.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more quick one.
In terms of your specialty capabilities has there been any impact from sequestration at all or not really? And then in terms of your relationship with CVS could that longer term possibly be a way to sort of expand your specialty business? Yes I'll take it.
I think -- again restate the first part on the special question? Research Division</strong> Impact from sequestration or not I imagine not.
Yes.
It certainly had an impact on customers across the system.
I think it had a very very modest impact on our business.
As Jeff mentioned we've been building scale.
We've not been terribly exposed to some of the dynamics that were associated with the sequestration.
So certainly as we look around the system sequestration has been difficult thing for many many physician groups.
But it really did not have much impact on us just given our model.
Again the second part I'm sorry David? Research Division</strong> And long-term your joint venture with CVS I imagine there might be ways to sort of grow that relationship? Yes.
So here's the way you ought to think about this: I think our joint venture itself is really dedicated to the global procurement of generic products for the U.S.
market specifically.
Obviously our relationship with CVS Caremark is deep and having this joint venture certainly only strengthens it.
So we'll continue to look for opportunities to see how we can collaborate in areas that create value and if specialty is one of those areas certainly we will explore it.
But don't think of it as a part of the joint venture.
I would think just to make life simple think of the joint venture as specifically dedicated to this generic procurement strategy but certainly we'll explore and continue to explore other ways to create value for one another.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to George Barrett for any additional or closing remarks.
So look it's been a longer call but great questions and we appreciate that.
All the good questions.
We appreciate your continued interest in Cardinal Health and I wish all of you the best for the New Year.
And we'll see you all soon.
Once again ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Cardinal Health Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
And at this time I would like to turn the conference over to Sally Curley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kayla and welcome to today's third quarter fiscal 2014 earnings call.
Today we will be making forward-looking statements.
The matters addressed in the statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to the SEC filings and the forward-looking statements slide at the beginning of the presentation which can be found on the Investor page of our website for a description of those risks and uncertainties.
In addition we will reference non-GAAP financial measures.
Information about these measures is included at the end of the slides.
I'd also like to remind you of a few upcoming investment conferences and events.
We will be attending one-on-one meetings in Mizuho Securities USA's Second Annual Healthcare Corporate Access Day on May 5.
In addition we'll be webcasting our presentations at the Deutsche Bank Securities Annual Healthcare Conference on May 8 in Boston; the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Health Care Conference on May 15 in Las Vegas; and the William Blair Growth Stock Conference on June 11 in Chicago.
Details for the upcoming webcasted events are or will be posted on the IR section of our website at cardinalhealth.com.
Please make sure to visit the site often for updated information.
We look forward to seeing you at an upcoming event.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO George Barrett.
George? Thanks Sally and good morning to everyone.
We had a solid third quarter operating performance.
Our businesses are competing well and the moves we're making continue to position Cardinal Health on the right side of health care trends.
Based on our work through 9 months and what we're seeing in our markets we are reaffirming the guidance we've provided this January of non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $3.75 to $3.85.
Total revenues for the third quarter were $21.4 billion a decline of 13% versus last year's third quarter.
This decline was expected as last year's revenue number included sales under our now-expired Walgreens supply agreement.
Our gross margin rate expanded by nearly 80 basis points to 6% for the quarter.
Our third quarter non-GAAP diluted EPS was $1.01 down from $1.20 last year for reasons that Jeff and I will cover later in our remarks.
When we initially provided guidance last August we anticipated an unusual year given the expiration of the Walgreens contract.
Now after completing 3 quarters I want to acknowledge our entire team for executing against our strategic goals and for the 6% non-GAAP operating earnings growth that they've delivered year-to-date.
Now on to the segments starting with Pharmaceutical.
As expected revenues for our Pharmaceutical segment declined 15% which was partially offset by sales growth from new and existing customers.
Strong performance from our generic programs helped to partially offset the impact of the Walgreens contract expiration resulting in a 9% segment profit decline for the quarter.
I'm extremely proud the way over our Pharmaceutical Distribution team is competing in a unique transition year.
For the period revenue increases outperformed the market in all classes of trade obviously with the exception of chain pharmacy.
Our 50-50 generic drug joint venture with CVS Caremark is making progress and our teams are deeply engaged in working through all the details so that we'll be able to -- excuse me that we will meet our target go-live date which we have said would be as early as July 1.
The new venture will operate under the name Red Oak Sourcing LLC will be comprised of key talent from both Cardinal Health and CVS Caremark and will be located in Foxborough Massachusetts.
At the same time we continue to build strength with our other customer groups.
For example we just recently renewed our Pharmaceutical Distribution agreement with Kmart one of our larger generic customers.
For independent pharmacists we continue to broaden our set of offerings.
As a recent example we have a new suite of offerings designed to help pharmacy owners navigate the new reimbursement requirements for the CMS Star Ratings.
Our program focuses on providing insights on how best to achieve the quality ratings which are now so important to inclusion in networks.
We continue to believe that pharmacy will play an expanding role in our health care system and we are committed to the industry to help enable this growing role.
Our Specialty Solutions group continues to deliver excellent growth.
We are sustaining our strong upward trend in our core specialty distribution and our platform to support our biopharmaceutical partners.
During this recent quarter we announced the acquisition of Sonexus Health.
Sonexus Health offers biopharma manufacturers comprehensive commercialization solutions in the U.S.
including access in patient support distribution and pharmacy services all aimed toward ensuring patients receive and successfully complete the therapies they need.
Sonexus Health complements and grows our current specialty team's offerings and creates a truly best-in-class patient-centric hub.
Based on all available data more new specialty medicines were brought to market in 2013 than ever before and we know this is a health care area in which we will play an increasingly important role.
I'll end with just a quick note on our Nuclear business.
We did see some revenue and profit increase in the quarter compared to a year ago.
This is certainly good news and we appreciate the team's hard work.
Our Medical segment performance was solid.
Revenue was up 7% to $2.7 billion and segment profit increased 11%.
There was however a discernible softness in utilization during the quarter some of which would seem to be weather-related but which is extremely difficult for us to precisely quantify.
We did see increased penetration in our targeted strategic accounts but our progress during the quarter was slowed somewhat by utilization softness and by volume shortfalls in our surgical kitting business.
Having said this we are continuing to build out our preferred products portfolio and recently took a significant step with the announcement of the acquisition of AccessClosure a leading manufacturer and distributor of extravascular closure devices in the United States.
AccessClosure gives us an outstanding lead product the Mynx product family.
But equally important it gives us a scalable platform a strong customer base a low-cost service model and a seasoned management team.
As you know last year we launched our orthopedic trauma solutions to an enthusiastic response and the acquisition of AccessClosure broadens our offering in another physician preference category.
With both cardiovascular and orthopedic trauma product lines we can now address some of the most significant customer pain points.
Our medical consumables business continues to grow faster than the market driven by share gains from new product launches as well as from new channel penetration.
We're also driving growth in our consumables in the home health channel through AssuraMed and recently launched our first products under the Cardinal Health label.
AssuraMed continues to contribute meaningful profit growth and margin accretion for the Medical segment.
Edgepark the direct-to-consumer business reported especially strong revenue and margin expansion as patient count continues to grow.
It's just common sense that our health care system will have to take a more active approach to managing the growing population of people who need care in the home.
And we have moved decisively in this space.
We see a system in need of innovative ways to reduce cost while at the same time improving quality safety and the patient experience.
These are not mutually exclusive goals.
And with this in mind we built a strong capability and contemporary Lean Six Sigma methods and recently launched an educational program for health care providers in partnership with the Ohio State University's Fisher College Center for Operational Excellence.
This program the Academy for Excellence in Health Care is targeted at acute care and surgical centers focuses on clinical and operational performance management and uses experts from Cardinal Health and the OSU faculty.
Our initial sessions addressed issues raised by participants from leading health systems and some of those topics included the patient care model improving the pre-procedure experience inventory management of high-cost specialty pharmaceuticals and improving post-anesthesia care unit throughput.
Turning to China.
We had another quarter of very strong growth on both the revenue and gross margin lines.
And as we've told you before the business is on track to deliver about $2.5 billion in sales this fiscal year.
We remain very optimistic about its growth potential.
We will continue to play a meaningful role in China's health care evolution by playing out our strategy of enlarging our geographic footprint creating new business partnerships and bringing our expertise to new opportunities such as direct-to-patient.
As an example similar to what we do in the United States we're supporting China's hospital [indiscernible] Initiative by working closely with hospital pharmacies and introducing hospital pharmacy management and services.
We now have 10 hospital pharmacy pilot projects with some of the largest hospitals in China.
Before I turn the call over to Jeff I want to welcome David Anderson to the Cardinal Health Board of Directors.
Dave has an extraordinary track record and recently retired from his position as Senior Vice President and CFO of Honeywell.
We look forward to Dave's contributions drawn on his 2 decades of experience as CFO of high-performing public companies.
And with that I'll hand the call off to Jeff.
Thanks George and hello everyone.
Let me begin by echoing George's comments regarding our year-to-date results.
Delivering 6% non-GAAP operating earnings growth given the Walgreens headwind we faced coming into the year is a testament to the organization's performance focus and the strength of our business portfolio.
Now on to the third quarter results.
You can refer to the slide presentation posted on our website as a guide to this discussion.
Let's start with consolidated results for the quarter.
We reported a 3% decrease in non-GAAP operating earnings in our fiscal '14 third quarter versus the prior year period driven by the expiration of the Walgreens contract.
Our non-GAAP earnings per share of $1.01 met our expectations but were down year-on-year.
In addition to the contract expiration this decline was also driven by an unfavorable tax rate comparison versus the prior year period which had included a positive tax settlement worth $0.18 per share.
I'll now go through the rest of the income statement in a bit more detail starting with revenue.
As expected consolidated sales were down 13% to $21.4 billion.
Gross margin dollars increased slightly versus prior year and we continued our strong track record of margin expansion with the rate increasing almost 80 basis points.
SG&amp;A expenses rose 3% in Q3 primarily driven by acquisitions including AssuraMed.
Our core SG&amp;A was essentially flat year-over-year evidence of our enterprise-wide commitment to controlling costs and to adjusting our expense base in response to changes in our customer mix.
We remain focused on improving the efficiency of our operations while continuing to invest in our key strategic priorities.
Our consolidated non-GAAP operating margin rate increased 26 basis points to 2.6%.
Moving below the operating line interest and other expense came in $28 million better than Q3 in the prior year's quarter.
This is mostly due to a $0.06 per share gain related to the sale of a minority equity interest in 2 investments.
Recall that last quarter we mentioned a possible gain which is reflected in the revised guidance range we provided at the time.
The non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 37.7% in line with our expectations.
As I mentioned earlier this was a tough compare versus the prior year's unusually low 25.1% again a result of an $0.18 benefit realized in that period.
Our diluted weighted average shares outstanding were 346.8 million for the third quarter about 2 million higher than last year.
During the quarter we repurchased $340 million worth of shares which brings our fiscal year-to-date purchases to about $390 million.
At the end of March we had just over $1 billion remaining on our board-authorized repurchase program.
We remain committed to our capital deployment strategy and so far this fiscal year have returned to $700 million to shareholders in the form of share repo and dividends.
Now let's discuss consolidated cash flows on the balance sheet.
We generated $820 million in operating cash flow in the quarter.
Year-to-date OCF of $1.8 billion is slightly favorable to our expectations and reflects the net positive benefit of unwinding the Walgreens contract.
As we previously noted there is typically a large degree of operating cash flow variability from quarter-to-quarter and we expect our Q4 operating cash flow to be quite light.
We ended the quarter with $3 billion in cash in our balance sheet which includes approximately $480 million held internationally.
As a reminder our acquisition of AccessClosure is expected to close in the coming weeks and that will result in a net outflow of $320 million to complete the deal.
Our working capital days decreased versus prior year primarily due to the Walgreens contract expiration which reduced our days sales outstanding.
Now let's move to segment performance.
I'll discuss Pharma first.
Pharma segment revenue posted a decrease of 15% versus the prior year period to $18.8 billion.
The prior period included approximately $5 billion of sales related to the Walgreens contract.
The current period includes strong sales growth from new and existing customers.
I'll note 2 other items.
First as George mentioned our revenue growth was strong in each of the Pharma Distribution channels excluding chain of course.
Second our other Pharma segment businesses have strong revenue growth compared to the prior year period including China specialty and somewhat surprisingly Nuclear.
Pharma segment profit decreased by 9% to $452 million driven by the Walgreens contract expiration.
The decline was partially offset by strong performance from our generics programs.
With respect to generics sales and profits from total generics programs exhibited very good year-on-year growth in the quarter.
This is a result of the emphasis we have placed on building the strength of our programs over the last several years the overall robustness of the market and the effect of specific manufacturer price increases.
Let me provide a little more detail.
First our generic source sales continue to be strong up 19% for the quarter.
Second we saw slightly more contribution from new generic launches in the third quarter versus the prior year period.
The net effect of generic manufacturer price changes on our portfolio sales resulted in slight inflation in the third quarter.
Finally in Q3 we continued to see some generic manufacturer price increases on a relatively small basket of products.
Compared to Q2 we realized a sequential decline in related margin benefit.
Looking ahead there's a fair degree of uncertainty with respect to Q4.
And as we've noted in the past we have been relatively conservative in our modeling of the -- of this contribution because it is so difficult to predict.
I'll also note that we saw brand inflation in the low-double digits which was slightly better than we expected.
On our Q2 call we mentioned this quarter is typically our strongest quarter for brand inflation benefit but that we had also experienced what we thought was about a $0.02 swing from this quarter that we realized in Q2.
Finally I'll note that the Pharma segment profit margin rate increased by 15 basis points compared to the prior year's Q3 due to our mix of higher-margin business this year.
Now moving onto Medical segment performance.
For the third quarter Medical revenue grew 7%.
The segment profit was up a solid 11% with the profit rate expanding by 15 basis points.
Top and bottom line performance is primarily a result of our movement to home health and the integration of AssuraMed which has gone well.
For AssuraMed we continue to be on track to achieve our original estimate of least $0.18 of non-GAAP EPS accretion for the full year.
As a reminder we lapped the timing of this acquisition in Q3.
In addition to our home health platform our strategic IDN accounts also continued to grow the result of our focus on these very large networks of hospitals and ambulatory sites that tend to buy a lot of our products and services because of their complex operations.
It was particularly rewarding to see this growth in a slow utilization environment.
The segment's performance was partially moderated by the effect of overall procedural volume softness and reductions in Presource kitting volumes.
Now a quick note on Cardinal Health China which spans both of our reporting segments.
Our business in China again posted strong double-digit revenue growth for the quarter up 33%.
We noted last quarter that the overall pharma market in China had been experiencing some turbulence due largely to the impact of some government regulatory actions to improve the integrity of the system.
It appears the impact of these actions on growth is diminishing.
However growth is still not back to what we've been seeing prior to these actions.
Turning to Slide #6 you'll see our consolidated GAAP results for the quarter.
The variance in non-GAAP results was primarily driven by amortization and other acquisition-related costs which reduced our GAAP results by $0.10 per share.
In Q3 of last year GAAP results were $0.20 lower than non-GAAP results.
Switching gears let me provide a few comments regarding our expectations for the balance of this fiscal year.
We are maintaining our non-GAAP EPS range of $3.75 to $3.85.
In past years we would typically be narrowing our range going into the fourth quarter.
However this year we had a couple of fairly large swing factors that still have a fair amount of potential variability to them.
Specifically achieving the upper half of our guidance range will mostly be dependent on 2 factors in particular: first a return to the levels of benefit from generic manufacturer price increases that we saw in Q2 of this year; and second realization of our Q4 tax rate which resulted in us achieving the low end of the provided full year tax rate range.
In closing we are pleased with our results so far this fiscal year.
Our presence across the continuum of care provides balance to our performance and we believe this is a strong strategic advantage for our customers.
Our talented team continues to drive results and remains focused on serving our customers well and executing against our strategic priorities.
With that let's begin Q&amp;A.
Operator please take our first question.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions here.
Let me start with the Medical segment.
So obviously with the Medical segment with the acquisition in the quarter what's the feedback that you're getting from the IDNs and how their kind of like thinking about you increasing your scope in medical devices? And are they more open to some kind of like the genericization [ph] of devices? Ricky it's George.
I'll take that.
Yes I think we're going to get great response from IDNs and health system partners on our program.
I think everybody's looking for new ways to do business recognizing the world is changing.
They're very much aware that in particular there's a whole category of what they think of as physician preference items which caused a kind of inefficiency in the system.
So I think we're touching a part of their overall cost structure that is really meaningful and that's -- as you know we started in the orthopedic space particularly along the trauma line which is probably the most commoditized of the kinds of products we're getting really good response.
We've actually been expanding our program that we launched with a relatively small line of products.
That product line is expanding and hopefully over the next 6 to 12 months we'll be able to describe a pretty significant expansion of that.
Our entry into the sort of cardiovascular with the acquisition of AccessClosure is a really important step for us and primarily today that work is being done in the cath lab.
But it really opens up doors for us.
And again I think our customers recognize this is a place to really alter behavior to increase standardization which they know is going to be central to being able to manage cost and getting the right outcomes.
Research Division</strong> And is the relationship directly with the IDNs? Or are you also going through the GPOs? It's really both it's really both.
So we've naturally -- we are -- we have to have those direct touch points to the IDNs and to specific hospitals but we continue to work closely with GPOs as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just my last question and maybe you've mentioned it in the prepared remarks and I missed it.
But obviously a lot of uncertainty around the expectations for Nexium and Diovan and it seems that different companies are taking different approaches.
So is the [indiscernible] contribution from Nexium in 4Q guidance or did you take it out? Hey Ricky this is Jeff.
Good question actually.
In our internal forecast we're not really counting on any benefit from either Nexium or Diovan this year.
In fact the benefit from those potential launches for us is probably more of a first half of fiscal '15 event.
We'll go next to Charles Rhyee with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
I might have missed it a little bit earlier but when I look at the revenues in the second quarter -- I'm sorry the March quarter I generally think of it being -- correct me if I'm wrong I generally thought of the March quarter as sort of your strongest revenue quarter in distribution generally on par with the December quarter.
But we see a fairly steep drop-off here.
Can you touch on what other factors might have been affecting that? Yes thanks Charles.
This is Jeff.
I'll try to take that.
Actually I would describe the revenue in Q3 as quite strong.
If you actually strip out the Walgreens impact for our Pharmaceutical business which I think is what you're referring to we actually grew over 9% with the rest of the business.
And that really reflects strength across the board.
As both George and I alluded to we had above-market growth in all of our channels in Pharma Distribution with the exception of chain and that was obviously driven by the Walgreens loss.
But on top of that if you look at the rest of the businesses within Pharma we had great growth in specialty 33% growth in China good growth in Nuclear which as I've said was somewhat of a surprise but a very positive one obviously.
So we actually feel very good about the underlying growth that we saw in Q3.
Now is it possible -- that all said is it possible that there was some dampening of script volumes in Q3 because of the weather? We've been hearing from some of our customers that that in fact was the case.
And so if there was any dampening in Q3 that might have been a factor that was driving it.
But as I said our underlying growth was strong at in excess of 9% excluding the Walgreens impact.
LLC Research Division</strong> So would you -- is it fair to say you didn't see really any weather -- I mean when you book revenues is it when you ship to your customers? So unless you got stopped by the weather to deliver does that affect how you book your revenues? Yes obviously we book them when we ship.
We sort of get the second order impact from any weather-related issues.
Like I said a few of our Pharma customers did mention that the script volume may have been impacted by the weather to some degree.
Again it's always tough for us to calculate that very specifically because of the second-order effect.
But based on what we're hearing there probably was some moderation from that.
I'd say on the medical side it's probably a little bit easier to calculate although still difficult.
We definitely saw some weather impact on our lab business and it also appears to have impacted physicians' office and hospital business as well.
So I would say overall for our company there was a slowdown in utilization related to the weather although again trying to quantify that specifically given the nature of our business is somewhat difficult.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one quick follow-up on Medical.
You kind of talked about sort of softness in the Presource kitting.
Is the Presource kitting is that where you do -- is that the trauma kit where you're -- or where you have a lot of the preferred products going into? No.
Presource kitting refers to the surgical kits that we -- surgical kits that we prepare for surgical procedures in the hospital.
And outpatient and surgery center facilities.
They're usually custom kits that are prepared for specific operations.
That is separate from our merged [ph] trauma portfolio.
Now it could be that some of those trauma products could be in a procedure tray but when I was referring to the Presource kitting I was really referring to the broader custom procedure trays that we provide.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Eric Percher with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So we heard earlier from another peer some conservative commentary looking out over the next 12 months.
We'll get guidance from your other peer in a week.
Are you at a point in your planning process where you can comment on your expectations over the next 12 to 18? Hey Eric it's Jeff.
I'm probably going to frustrate you a little bit with my response.
But the simple answer is no.
We generally provide our guidance in our Q4 call which will be in August this year.
In main part because we're still going through our planning processes.
Until we complete those we're really not in a position to provide quantitative guidance for our fiscal '15.
That all said let me provide a couple of qualitative comments on drivers and our approach heading into next year and I'll go through these in no particular order.
First we continue to expect the accretion from the CVS generic sourcing JV net of the accounting for the quarterly payment to CVS to be accretive.
We said that at our December Investor Day.
And based on everything we know to date we continue to very much expect that to be the case.
The other thing I'll mention about the CVS JV as George said we're still on track to be up and running as early as July 1.
But it'll take time for the contracts to flow through and the benefits to ramp up.
So clearly we're not going to see a lot of benefit day 1.
It will progress later ramp up over the course of our fiscal '15.
Second point I'd make is we're going to continue to maintain our conservative posture with respect to health care utilization.
And as we said before we're not going to try to forecast when ACA volume upticks might kick in.
That's proven to be a very difficult proposition.
And we decided some time ago that for the purpose of our internal forecast and planning we will be relatively conservative and really not try to model when ACA-related volume might kick in.
And we expect to continue that as we forecast for fiscal '15 as well.
On the subject of being conservative we're also going to continue to be somewhat conservative when trying to forecast the benefit from generic pricing relative to what we experienced so far in fiscal '14.
As I said in my remarks and as we said multiple times generic price increases from manufacturers are a very difficult thing to predict given the fact that it affects a very small part of the overall portfolio less than 5% of our products.
So again we're going to continue to be somewhat conservative in terms of forecasting any benefit we might get from generic price increases.
We do expect growth next year in virtually all of our key strategic priority areas including specialty China preferred products and hospital services.
As you know we've continued to focus on those for the past year invest in those.
And I fully expect our fiscal '15 plan will reflect some of the fruits of those investments.
Research Division</strong> A commentary I may have expected but perhaps a little bit more conservative I guess the outlier here being that you do expect the JV falling through in line with where you were that's very much on par.
Do you think you'll be in a point to give us guidance in terms of the benefit you're receiving from that when we get full year guidance? I'm not going sure we're going to give a specific number related to it quite frankly.
But it will be reflected in whatever guidance we give in August our best estimate of the net accretion that we'll get from that JV.
And you stated it correctly we continue to believe that it will be a net accretion when you add everything up.
And then we continue to feel very good about the potential benefit from that JV again reflecting that there's going to be a ramp-up period.
We'll go next to Glen Santangelo with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> George and Jeff I just wanted to kind of follow up on the previous question about third quarter results relative to kind of where you were just a quarter ago.
I mean you gave a lot of color regarding the year-over-year growth rates.
But if I kind of look sequentially from fiscal 2Q to 3Q your revenues were down pretty sharply in both segments and your profit was down almost double that rate in both segments or -- and actually even more on the Medical side.
And so I hear you kind of called out on some specific drivers whether it be weather JVs lower volumes or lighter generic profitability.
I'm just wondering if there was anything else that might help explain or reconcile the sequential decline we saw from fiscal 2Q.
Yes I am going to speak mainly about profit Glen.
So on the Pharma side I mentioned that the sequential benefit that we realized from manufacturer price increases on generics wasn't materially less in Q3 than it was in Q2 -- which by the way was pretty consistent with the way we had modeled it as well.
So that was a driver of that sequential reduction that you referred to.
I also mentioned the fact that although we saw good brand inflation in Q3 there was a partial pull-ahead into Q2 of probably about $0.02 and again that is something we had referenced during our Q2 call.
On the Medical side of things I would say Q3 was one of the weaker quarters we've seen in terms of overall utilization.
How much of that was due to weather? How much of that was due to a lighter flu season? Keep in mind that Q2 was fairly strong from a flu perspective Q3 was noticeably lighter.
But overall we did see some relatively weak utilization.
I'd also say from a year-on-year growth perspective in Q3 we lapped the AssuraMed acquisition in the quarter so that resulted in some dampening of growth year-on-year.
I might just add a little color Glen.
From the Pharma standpoint our Pharmaceutical segment actually our revenue numbers again stripping away the expiration of Walgreens were really good actually.
So we competed very effectively and we like our positioning there.
And on Medical as Jeff said it would be really hard to point to any meaningful competitive or operating performance difference between the last quarter and this quarter.
Essentially the main change being the environment and as Jeff said the lapping of AssuraMed.
So from a competitive positioning standpoint and where we are actually feel pretty good about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So maybe justify -- Jeff just clarify what you said with respect to fiscal 4Q.
It sounds like you are expecting another significant step-down in the profitability of the Pharmaceutical segment just basically to be in line with the midpoint of your guidance but yet the biggest swing factors will be some uptick in terms of generic pricing and maybe the Q4 tax rate.
So is it fair to say embedded within your expectations for next quarter you have continued very conservative assumptions with respect to generic pricing? Absolutely Glen.
We do -- our current forecast implies another fairly significant sequential decline in benefit from manufacturer price increases on generics.
Now as I said though we could be wrong on that and that is the biggest swing factor in where we'll end up within the range.
So I would second what you just said.
I would also mention that we modeled it pretty accurately heading into Q3 but we're going to continue to be somewhat conservative on that point.
We'll go next to Ross Muken with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> It seems like your kind of execution in the China business continues to be a net positive for the overall company.
I mean as you sort of think about the growth trajectory there and what you've learned now being sort of a broader international business and your key partner on the JV continues to kind of search for assets in Brazil I mean how are you thinking about some of the rest of world opportunities? And obviously your peers have gone into Europe.
So how are you thinking about some of the emerging markets the opportunities as you've kind of seen what else is developed in some of these regions? So Ross why don't I start and then we'll let Jeff join me and probably some specific comments about China he might want to make.
We've continued to look everywhere where we think there may be opportunity for us to explore competitive advantage.
Remember that we do this really by business line.
So obviously the thing that gets the most attention of course -- and we've seen major move in the Pharmaceutical Distribution business in Europe for example from our competitors.
But for us we'll look very carefully at every market and we'll look at it with a pretty disciplined eye.
And we'll look at it by our business lines.
So again we will -- we have a fair amount of experience in our senior team.
We do sell a number of our products in the markets around the world.
That's likely to expand.
We're looking at individual markets really across the globe.
But again we'll do it with a very disciplined eye with a goal of making sure that we can enhance our strategic positioning; that we've got a reason to compete meaning a reason to win; and that it serves [ph] our shareholders and other stakeholders well.
So we're pretty active looking across the world.
But again you have to remind -- I think remind yourself that we have multiple lines of business and we'll consider them both in the broad context and by line of business.
I don't know if you want to add to that Jeff? The only thing I'd add is every news [ph] that's going into China I think any time you make a move into an international country you have to do it with a sense of purpose.
And you can't dabble honestly.
Any international country requires a pretty significant management focus.
And so any decision we make to enter additional countries has to be made with recognition of that that it's going to take a fair amount of management time and attention as it should.
So if we are going to enter a country it's going to be because as George said we can win.
And that we're prepared to invest the necessary management time to being successful.
And we could add value and deliver a good return for our shareholders.
So none of those decisions will get made lightly.
But we'll continue to look.
And if we can find markets that can turn out to be as successful as China has been so far that's great.
And we'll apply our learnings from entering China into any significant future opportunities we find.
We'll go next to Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Not to be dense on this the follow-up on the 3Q cadence.
I know you guys referenced why revenue was a little bit down sequentially and profit dollars obviously subsequently down as well.
But if I look back historically 3Q in both segments is also your highest profit margin quarter.
And I understand some of the timing issues you mentioned that would impact that.
But for both segments clearly the operating profit margin is probably lower than what we have grown accustomed to in this particular quarter.
Anything else worth calling out as far as mix or anything else within each segment that might have driven that? Yes.
Thanks for the question Bob.
First of all I think it is important to remind everyone that this is -- Q3 was the second quarter we haven't had Walgreens and that's going to continue through -- in terms of lapping that loss it's going to continue through the first quarter of next year.
I think we had such a strong quarter in Q2 that perhaps people lost sight of that.
But we're still facing the drag on revenue and operating earnings year-on-year from that loss.
I'll also say about Q3 actually we're pretty pleased with where we ended up.
We basically ended up exactly where we were forecasting to be.
We overachieved versus plan.
And yes there was some lightness in utilization particularly in Medical that was a bit of a disappointment.
But as George said earlier from a competitive standpoint from a strategic priority standpoint we continue to be firing on almost all cylinders which is important.
And I think it bodes well for the future.
So I -- quite frankly from our perspective Q3 came in as or slightly better than we expected and we feel pretty good heading forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I guess Jeff you mentioned some of the things to keep an eye on for next year ahead of official guidance obviously.
I just -- I guess one specific question I had around contracts can you remind us of your exposure to the DoD? Anything you'd call out there as far as how you're thinking about repricing that renewal? And then I guess just along those lines any other contracts that we should have on the radar as we think about modeling fiscal '15? Yes.
So most of this if not all of it is public information so I'll repeat what's in the public domain.
Our total Pharma revenues annual revenues from the DoD are about $600 million.
We have 2 specific regions that we service the DoD.
The contracts for both of those regions expire in our Q4 of next year.
Now obviously it's something we'll be very focused on during the next couple of months as the contracts come up for rebid et cetera.
But quite frankly in terms of impact on FY '15 given the timing and given our overall exposure to the DoD we expected it to have a fairly minimal impact on our fiscal '15.
In terms of other contracts Bob I'm happy to say actually that if you look at our large pharma contracts which is what I think you're referring to we're really pretty well positioned through the end of fiscal '15 with all of our large customers.
And as George alluded to we're happy that we were able to extend the Kmart contract well into the future.
And that's very important for a number of reasons including the fact they're a fairly large generic buyer of us.
So from a contract stability standpoint we're probably better positioned now than we've been in some time.
And obviously you all know that the CVS distribution contract is extended for a number of years as well.
So good overall stability.
We'll go next to Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if maybe you could just give us a little more color around the CVS JV go-live.
For example what portion of generics do you expect will purchase through the JV come July? Is this going to be rolled on over time Jeff? So Lisa I'll start and then I'll let Jeff jump in.
Again you can assume that pretty much all of our generics are going to roll through that joint venture.
There could be unique hospital lines that -- Injectables that are not.
But you should assume that this is really going to be our generic sourcing model.
And we can't provide too much detail beyond what I said in my comments Lisa except I will just say this: As Jeff said we feel good and confident that we'll cover our financial obligations under the JV structure.
We've made great progress.
There are moving million -- 1 million moving parts in getting to the finish line and the teams have been really working hard to get to that target date.
The spirit of cooperation is incredibly good.
And I think we're at a point where we're having good conversations with manufacturers.
I think they appreciate that we're building up a pretty transparent model.
And so from that standpoint we're feeling good about it.
I don't know Jeff if we can add much here.
Just to your -- when the sourcing sort of rolls into the JV I would say that the JV will be responsible for virtually all generic sourcing from day 1.
When I was referring to ramp up I wasn't really referring to us gradually giving responsibility to the JV because that does happen day 1.
What I was referring to is really when the JV would be able to realize significant benefits in terms of repricing contracts et cetera.
That will ramp up over time as you would expect because it's not like we'd be able to redo every contract on day 1.
Research Division</strong> And then you mentioned the renewal of Kmart and the fact that it's a large generic customer.
I'm just curious are you seeing any increased interest from other customers in your generic business now that you have this JV cooperative? Yes Lisa it's a great question.
As you know there's been -- these last 6 to 12 months have been a period of incredible amount of movement around the pharmaceutical industry.
I would say there certainly is increased interest from players who might be at a smaller scale as to how they can best achieve a greater position.
I can't go into great detail.
But I think your hypothesis that this is likely is right on.
And we'll continue to just be thoughtful and in touch with everyone who can be a player in this field.
So yes I think it's reasonable to say that there's continued and probably increasing interest.
We'll go next to David Larsen with Leerink Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys touch on what you're doing to work with your independent pharmacy customers to basically help them improve the way they deliver care? We're hearing a lot about how retail pharmacies are becoming more providers of care.
Any thoughts around how you're helping them along that path? Yes I'll touch on it.
The model that we've evolved really with the independent pharmacy is essentially to provide an extraordinary amount of service support to them to enable them to do the thing that they're most likely to compete on effectively which is getting out in front and engaging directly with the customers.
And so our programs really cover the gamut from generic programs obviously reimbursement tools.
I mentioned this help on the CMS Star model.
Just a little detail that's really -- the way this works CMS has implemented a rating system for all plans -- Medicare plans.
And so the ratings come with bonus payments related to certain things.
We're working with those customers to do that.
We're helping them build centers for diabetics inside their stores.
We are doing some programs for them that help fulfillment on the home care and dealing with patients who are elderly and have unique needs in their pharmacies.
So I would say the basic concept is a huge wraparound kind of service system that allows them to operate in the most effective way they can in their community.
Very specialized very targeted.
It's not a one-size-fits-all.
And I think that's where we've gotten better in recent years is that we've been able to really target these customers segment them and understand that each of them has to compete differently in their own community.
And I think the better we understand how they compete and what we can do to help them the more effective we'll be.
I think our retail business is showing the signs of that high service and high-touch model.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I'm also hearing about how hospital IDNs are obviously forming accountable care organization types of programs and a lot of these are including pharmacies in their networks.
Is that part of the it? Yes it is yes.
We'll go next to Greg Bolan with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> So on the preferred products and the med-surg segment Jeff what percentage of gross profit would you say preferred products comprised of at this quarter? Yes Greg.
Great question and obviously something we watch very closely.
It was about 36% of gross profit for the quarter.
Research Division</strong> And still call it 23-ish percent of med-surg revenues? 22% 23% in that range.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And so with this acquisition obviously you're planning on moving into other areas beyond interventional cardiology.
But as you think about the contribution to -- from preferred products to that segment gross profit line.
I mean it would seem to me that over the coming years this is going to be -- this acquisition and just obviously layering on additional kind of high-end or high-tech-type devices will enable you to kind of basically transform the segment margin higher.
And I just -- I guess I was just kind of wondering is this something that you view this acquisition and what you're going to do with it as well as all of the other things that you're doing on the core business transformative to the segment gross profit margin? Yes Greg why don't I start and then again I'll turn it to Jeff.
Yes this is really at the heart of the strategy.
This is again a place where we know it's a significant need for our customers.
I think it's change of behavior that's going to really alter their game not necessarily squeezing 1 more basis point out of some product.
It's really about a change of behavior.
Much of this requires standardization.
And I think we're seeing an increasingly receptive customer to this.
And we've started to make some moves to build out that platform.
So in ortho we had already begun to do that.
You mentioned the high tech.
I would say we've started really on the lower tech which I think is the more appropriate place to start.
The key for us is evidence-based equivalents.
That's what we're focusing on.
And building that case starting in trauma.
In cardio we've really started with this acquisition.
We wanted to make sure that we had a company with credibility a product line that had some reach a management team that we believed in and actually a relatively efficient low-cost service model go-to-market model.
And we believe that was AccessClosure.
We get that.
So this allows us again to think about other areas.
For example again thinking more along the lower end of clinical differentiation more like guide wires or catheters or diagnostic catheters that might be used in this setting.
So again the way to think about this is starting really on the lower end and making sure that we can build the support there in our community.
Just to go back to ortho I would also remind you that we are I would say pretty significantly ramping up our capability and the product line in our trauma area because again we started with a relatively thin line.
And what's important is to be able to have a really a basket of products.
So we do think that this has the potential to really change the game for our customers.
And in terms of our own margin rate should be very positive.
Yes just to build on that margin rate question Greg.
As we said in our December Investor Day our goal is to achieve a Medical segment profit margin rate of at least 5.75% by fiscal '17.
And there's really 3 things that are going to drive it and one of those things is not getting paid more for core distribution.
That's not our expectation.
But we do believe that the things that we can wrap around our supply chain capabilities will be key drivers of that margin expansion.
And specifically that's preferred products.
And as we said at the time our goal is to get the gross margin contribution from preferred products to about 45% of the overall Medical segment gross margin.
Secondly continuing to aggressively build our home health platform.
And thirdly layering on additional services that we can provide to the hospitals that are clearly very high margin.
So it's really those 3 initiatives that are going to drive our margin expansion over the next 3 [ph] of years.
Sorry again just to reinforce because it's important.
We really are focused on a particular part of the market and these are really at the moment it's areas where clinical differentiation is not really relevant not -- and then where standardization the benefits of standardization would be really compelling.
So just wanted to make sure I highlight that.
We'll go next to George Hill with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> George I wanted to kind of -- I want to pick on your expertise here.
And I want to ask from your background how much variance is there in the contracting between the drug wholesalers and the generic drug manufacturers? Because with the new purchasing entities that have been formed by some of your peers it seems like there's a lot of new bells and whistles that trying to be introduced to how the contracts are structured between the manufacturers and the wholesalers.
So I guess I would ask are you guys seeing more bells and whistles being introduced? And George I guess from your time at Teva can you talk about how much variance there was in the contracts between different types of wholesalers different types of customers? Yes.
So George great questions.
Part of which I can answer part of which I can't.
So in terms of differential on pricing that's just not something I can speak to at this point.
I think you guys have to use your own judgment as to how you would believe a different size and scale might influence how pricing is delivered from manufacturer to the channel.
Obviously we --- there's enormous amount of work we've done in this internally but not something we can really share.
In terms of the bells and whistles question it's a really interesting one.
I would argue this that having sat in the manufacturer's seat you want this system to be pretty simple.
And so in fact attaching too many bells and whistles is not necessarily where we want to go.
I think we want to simplify the relationship with the manufacturer.
I think we want to have a great line of sight between them and us.
I think we need to be able to demonstrate to them that we can create value for them.
That certainly is market share and our ability to influence market share.
But it's also having a model that they connect to and that works for them.
So yes I would say we're not trying to attach things to the model.
We're actually trying to simplify in many ways and make sure that when we go to the market as a single joint venture it's very straightforward very clear very transparent they know who they're working with.
I don't know if that's helpful.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
It is helpful I guess from the entity perspective.
But I guess what I'm trying to figure out is how should we think out about the procurement savings that you and CVS are going to achieve? We're dumb sell-siders.
We think about this in terms of dead [ph] net price reductions versus will there be rebate structures GPO structures GPO fee -- or GPO admin fees pay-to-play structures.
So that's -- I mean that's the type of complexity that I'm talking about and we're just hearing about lots of interesting structures that are being examined.
I'm trying to figure out how much of this is new and how much of this is normal.
So historically there have been multiple -- very quick context there have been multiple ways that companies deal with the generic manufacturers.
Again let me be very clear though.
We want to keep it simple.
So our goal is going to -- is really going to be to do that not to add layers of complexity.
What I can't give you and I think was the beginning part of your question and I simply can't do that is how much value is there coming from the venture.
And the only thing we can share with you at this point is what we've shared when we announced which is that we've got an obligation under the joint venture agreement.
We feel positive that we'll cover those obligations.
And that we expect this to be accretive.
But again transparency simplicity is probably going to be more of the order of the day in our model rather than adding layers of complexity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last one I'll hop off with -- is can you update us on generic drug private label strategy? I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> Generic drug private label strategy? Yes let me try to do this very generally.
To me in the U.S.
market again let's talk about the U.S.
market.
And that's primarily today where we're competing in generic drugs.
We don't really believe that the label whether or not it will be for private label is a relevant dynamic for those that are making the purchasing decisions.
So other companies may choose to go down that path and we totally respect that and understand it.
And maybe it's part of a procurement strategy.
And to that extent we'd always evaluate those things so we don't rule them out.
But as a commercial downstream market strategy we don't believe in the U.S -- and this has been tried over the last 40 years -- in the U.S.
we don't think that's a particularly relevant thing.
But certainly as part of our procurement strategy if we thought that helped us in that part of the business we're always open to it and never rule it out.
We'll go next to Steven Valiquette with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I missed a couple of your comments on the generic inflation stuff.
I know last quarter you characterized it still as abnormally high inflation on a relatively small basket of products.
I guess my question is just big picture where do we stand on resolution of supply shortage situations? Big picture are we seeing those circumstances starting to dissipate a little bit? Are we seeing an increase in shortages? Just want to get a sort of a big picture comment on that.
Yes.
Sure Steve.
I'll start this and again Jeff is always free to pile in here.
We've said pretty much through the early part of the year that we thought we were seeing some relatively unusual pricing patterns if you can even use the word patterns.
Obviously these tend to be individual markets.
I always remind people that thousands of generic drugs it's thousands of individual markets.
We have -- we did expect to see some moderation during the second half of the year.
And then that's what we saw in Q2 we were not far off our expectation on that.
So I think the question about what's happening in the market and the disturbances I'm not sure that we've seen a lot of change there.
There continue to be disturbances in the market significant disturbances in the injectable space in the hospital space as you know.
And that has made it very complicated for the system.
And I know that there a number of both policymakers and a lot of the companies trying to figure out how best to navigate that environment.
But I would say we've continued to see some manufacturer shortages.
And I'm not sure that has materially changed.
But it moves from product to product as you probably know.
The only other color I'll add Steve is that the number of products that actually had an increase in Q3 sequentially was slightly higher than what we saw in Q2 although still under 5% of our portfolio.
However as I said earlier that the net benefit to us from price increases in Q3 was materially lower than Q2.
We'll take our final question from Garen Sarafian with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up question regarding your joint venture and just the ramp-up.
I'm wondering how does the progression of the ramp occur? I'm just trying to figure out why wouldn't -- especially if the model is to keep it simple if it would hit its run rate by the end of your fiscal year next year so within a 12-month period? Or is there something -- inherently something that's longer term such as contracts that you can't get out of that require a 3-year period or something? So if you could just elaborate on that a little bit would be helpful.
Yes.
Thanks Gary.
Good question.
What I've said before which we still believe to be the case is fiscal '15 will be a ramp-up period and that's because it will take time to renegotiate new contracts.
We also have some contracts that still have to play out in fiscal '15 -- existing contracts I'm referring to.
That all said we do expect that we'll hit probably a more normalized run rate in fiscal '16.
I don't think we're looking at a multi-year ramp-up period.
But again just to repeat probably '15 will be a ramp-up period and '16 will be more of a normalized run rate.
I'd like to turn it back to George Barrett for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Look I'd like to thank all of you for joining us on today's call and for your questions and your interest in Cardinal Health.
And we look forward to seeing you at upcoming meetings.
Thanks all.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day.
And welcome to the Cardinal Health Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Sally Curley Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Tina and welcome to Cardinal Health's fourth quarter fiscal 2014 earnings and fiscal 2015 guidance call.
Today we will be making forward-looking statements.
The matters addressed in these statements are subject to risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to the SEC filings and the forward-looking statements slide at the beginning of the presentation found on the Investor page of our website for a description of those risks and uncertainties.
In addition we will reference non-GAAP financial measures.
Information about these measures is included at the end of the slides.
Our press release and details about upcoming events can be found on the IR section of our website at cardinalhealth.com.
So please make sure to visit the site often for updated information.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO Mr.
George Barrett.
George? Thanks Sally.
And thank you everyone for joining us this morning.
Fiscal 2014 was an enormously important year for Cardinal Health.
Our organization exceeded our financial goals for the year along multiple dimensions: revenue gross margin dollars non-GAAP operating earnings and operating margin rate and cash flow.
A particular note we were able to absorb a revenue headwind of nearly $17 billion due to the FY 2014 first quarter expiration of the Walgreens contract and still grow our non-GAAP earnings over the prior year.
At the same time we have been able to enhance our market position deploy capital efficiently and continue to grow the talent so critical to our future.
Equally important we began our fiscal 2015 stronger and better position than ever to address the needs of a healthcare system looking for solution to two very basic questions.
How do we deliver better care more cost effectively? And who are those industry players who listen and act to bring innovative solutions to the table? Answering these questions is at the heart of what we do and our teams approach is recognizing that we need to compete and win every day in today's marketplace while at the same time making the important moves to adapt to a changing healthcare environment.
We could make a strong argument that this has been a transition year for the industry as well.
It's been an extraordinary 12 months in healthcare particularly here in the U.S.
Last fall we saw the first rollout of the exchanges under the Affordable Care Act.
And throughout the year our system continued to explore different models for providing coverage for patients delivering care and managing cost.
We saw consumers playing a more active role in their own healthcare much of this fueled by the impact of changing benefit design and we saw some medical breakthroughs that expanded our systems capacity to manage and even cure disease but also test our abilities co-readiness to take with that innovation.
At the same time with such clear signs of an industry actively repositioning and consolidating upstream among pharmaceuticals and MedTech manufacturers as well as among providers and health system and a continued learning of the lines that delineated which used to be the distinct segment of the healthcare market.
This is truly been a year of transition.
With that as context let me talk about our performance in FY 2014.
My remarks will focus broadly on our annual fiscal 2014 and our 2015 outlook.
As I mentioned in our opening remarks fiscal year 2014 required some major transitions for Cardinal Health after the expiration of the Walgreens contract.
And given this headwind I am particularly pleased with our results.
Our revenues for the year excluding Walgreens grew by 8% fueled primarily by strong growth from existing customers.
Our reported revenues including the impact from Walgreens for the year declined by 10% to $91 billion.
Non-GAAP operating earnings rose 4% to $2.1 billion while non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $3.84 up 3% and our gross margin rate expanded by 80 basis points to 5.7% for the year.
Our team continued to drive capital efficiency this year generating $2.5 billion in cash from operation.
We returned over $1.1 billion to shareholders in fiscal 2014 through both our strong dividend and share buybacks.
And I'm very pleased that we were able to provide our investors with a total shareholder return of 46.7% per year.
Now let me turn to the segment.
Our Pharmaceutical segment more than met the challenge associated with the Walgreens contract expiration actually delivering a profit increase while absorbing net $17 billion revenue headwind.
It's worth noting that the rate of revenue growth excluding Walgreens would have been a robust 8% for our Pharmaceutical segment.
Our overall Pharmaceutical segment profit margin expanded almost 30 basis points for the year.
I would like to take a few minutes to cover a few strategic priority areas for our Pharma segment.
There is little doubt that generic drug will continue to be a significant lever in holding down prescription drug cost.
Track data suggests that generics now represent over 85% of our prescriptions in United States.
We have significantly increased our scale in generics through our various internal and external moves most notably our joint venture with CVS Caremark now named Red Oak Sourcing.
A few quick comments about Red Oak.
We are extremely excited about our progress to-date in getting to a go-live with Red Oak which was formalized last month.
And CVS Caremark has been a perfect partner throughout the process.
As we work through the details in our preparation for the launch our enthusiasm has only increased.
We have assembled a talented team with both Cardinal Health and CVS Caremark well represented.
Our teams are putting the hard work to manage through all of the intricate detail so that we could go to the manufactures with one face and as one decision maker.
We feel confident that our participation in Red Oak will ensure that Cardinal Health is in the best position to serve our diverse mix of customers in this competitive landscape.
I understand that many of you will want to know more details about the impact the value and mechanics of the joint venture but I'll ask you to recognize that Red Oak has only just this past month been engaging in discussions with manufacturers.
It is important to respect the process and for us to let these negotiations proceed between Red Oak and the manufactures.
And so other than the comments Jeff will be making we will not provide specifics in the mechanics or the exact value derived from the joint venture.
Of course FY 2015 guidance include the assumption associated with the net benefits from Red Oak.
You know that diversifying our customer base has been a priority.
We've continued to grow our position with independent pharmacies and other pharmacy channels over the year.
Our portfolio of solutions for these customers has never been more comprehensive and the response of the retailers has never been more enthusiastic.
I just returned from RBC our Annual Retail Business Conference held in Washington DC last week.
The gathering of thousands of owners and pharmacists was our largest ever reinforcing their importance to the healthcare system and the Cardinal Health.
The conference gave these retailers exposure to over 60 continuing education courses and provided access to latest tools technologies solutions and innovative generic program.
Special emphasis was placed on patient solutions that helped with medication adherence and medication therapy management.
Our focus remains to help these critical members of the healthcare system improve patient care the breadth of their products and services and the efficiency and profitability of their businesses.
At the same time our ability to serve hospitals and health systems with pharmaceutical products continues to strengthen including some of the important work we are doing with our clinical pharmacy teams to help with discharge management.
Specialty medicine and the services surrounding these innovations continues to play an increasingly large role in our healthcare landscape and of course for Cardinal Health.
During fiscal 2014 we are able to deliver a 30% revenue growth in the Specialty Solutions group.
We have expanded our presence in specialty biopharmaceutical particularly in building at our tools to interface with patients who need to be served in an integrated and high-touch model.
This enables us to serve the providers up here to these unique patient population and also to capture value as a partner to biopharmaceutical companies who seek to get closer to the patient.
Support this program; we established our best-in-class patient-centric hub with the acquisition of Sonexus Health in the third quarter of FY 2014.
This platform and experienced team is an important step to position Cardinal Health to assist in these efforts and to deliver value added services.
Moving to the Medical segment.
Fiscal 2014 revenues grew 9%.
Margin rate expanded by 35 basis points and segment profit grew at almost 20%.
The delivery of medical care has been undergoing fairly rapid change and the work of our medical segment has been focused on aligning to address the evolution in the system.
Just these past few weeks we formalized some adaptation to these changes launching a team based approach to addressing the needs of large integrated delivery networks.
These are not sales teams but rather business and systems experts who are charged with delivering the full range and breadth of the Cardinal Health portfolio to address the complex needs of these diverse customers.
As I mentioned earlier we've seen consolidation among hospital systems continued affiliation between doctors and those systems and some shifting stand as it relates to where care is delivered.
On this last point well the sickest sickest patients will continue to be served in acute care setting.
It's clear that many patients with lower acuity will be served in different settings whether that's a community hospital surgery center a clinic a physician's office or even the home.
This has been at the heart of our strategy to serve patients across the continuum of care.
In this context the acquisition of AssuraMed a year ago has been an important extension of our strategy.
It has significantly increased our touch points and created opportunities in a market that is growing and estimated 5% to 7% per year.
Most important for Cardinal Health it's increasing our direct linkages with chronic patients.
Through AssuraMed we have some form of interaction with the patient 44 000 times a day.
With this increasing patient interaction we recently made the decision to rebrand our AssuraMed platform as Cardinal Health to Home -- excuse me Cardinal Health At Home.
As we told you at the time of the acquisition we intended to increase the AssuraMed portfolio.
We have in fact broadened the product line as well as increased the number of Cardinal Health branded products to this important channel of the home.
Although we are extremely pleased with the progress here and the fact that AssuraMed exceeded our full year accretion target of $0.18 per share.
Our medical consumables business has represented an opportunity to use our scale to bring significant savings to the healthcare system while at the same time expanding our margin.
Our consumable business grew faster than the market this year driven by share gains from new private label product launches new channel penetration and from growth among our strategic accounts.
We saw full year sales growth of 6% and launched over 500 new SKUs during FY 2014.
During this past year we discussed with you the challenges many of our hospitals IDN and surgery centre customer faced in managing physician preference items.
These categories tend to consume resources and from our perspective represent an inefficiency.
We've recognized an opportunity to bring standardization and with that real time value to this system.
We position ourselves to address some critical pain points building platforms in orthopedic wound management and with our third quarter acquisition of AccessClosure interventional cardiovascular.
A few comments on China.
China has continued to be an outstanding growth story for us.
In 2014 we grew revenues by 30% reaching $2.6 billion.
We continue to build strong relationship with our pharma and medical device company at a time where company reputation is particularly important.
We have expanded our geographic footprint and our lines of business which now include 30 direct-to-patient pharmacies focused on specialized pharmaceutical product.
Before I turn to 2015 one more note it's been our practice to be transparent with you with regard to areas where we need to be better.
This was a year of enormous accomplishment.
But we had a few areas that did not satisfy our high expectations.
Fortunately these are relatively small parts of our portfolio and in each case we are taking action to accelerate improvement but I do want to call them out.
Canada was a particularly tough market for medical supplies this year and our business declined there year-over-year.
We believe that we've made the necessary moves to address the pressure to that market and we look forward to recovery in that business.
Our work supplying medical products to small physician offices has not had the growth that we like to see.
While we had solid performance in most post-acute settings including surgery centers and large practices we are committed to making greater progress within these smaller practices and are taking steps accordingly.
As we leave 2014 and turn to our fiscal 2015 we begin the year with increased scale and generic a more robust specialty business a reconfigured customer and product portfolio and some important solution offering for the medical system.
The flexibility that comes with financial strength a deep bench of organizational talent and a sense of confidence in the future.
Most importantly we believe our strategic priorities align with the needs of a system experiencing a rapid change.
New performance based model and a world of bundled risk changing network design accountable care organization and a more involved patient acting more like a consumer.
So with this as backdrop we are guiding to a fiscal year 2015 non-GAAP EPS range of $4.10 to $4.30.
This puts on track to deliver on the long-term aspiration we laid out in our December Investor Day.
It's our year-end so I would like to voice a few thank you.
To our shareholders we appreciate your support and your high expectations.
For business partners manufacturers providers and caregivers those who directly touch patients we thank you for putting your trust in us and allowing us to help you serve your patients.
To all my colleagues at Cardinal Health my gratitude for your talent and your spirit and your readiness to respond to important challenges and to do so with your eyes always on the patient.
Before I turn the call over to Jeff I want to make a few quick comments on our announcement about his retirement which will become effective following the end of our fiscal 2015.
Jeff has been a talented and trusted partner to me since my arrival at Cardinal Health.
I have often leaned on his agile mind and his quick wit.
Although there will be no Derek Jeter farewell tour we have a healthy transition scheduled and I know all of you will get a time with Jeff to thank him in the coming year.
And of course we will update you as we formalize our succession plan.
And with that I will turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks George and good morning everyone.
And by the way I'm counting on Derek Jeter farewell tour okay.
But thank you for the comments.
I'm happy reporting a solid finish to an important transition year.
This morning I will begin by highlighting key financial trends and drivers of our fourth quarter results and then make a few comments on our full year performance.
I will provide additional detail on our fiscal 2015 guidance including some of our key expectations and underlying assumptions.
You can refer to the slide presentation posted on our website as a guide to this discussion.
Let's start with consolidated results for the quarter.
As we indicated during our third quarter call achieving the upper end of our non-GAAP EPS guidance range would really depend on two items: the impact resulting from generic manufacturer price increases and our tax rate.
During the quarter we grew our non-GAAP EPS by 5% to $0.83 per share or $3.84 for the full year a reflection of a relatively favorable outcome for both these factors.
Again some more detail in a moment.
Now let's review the rest of the income statement starting with revenue.
Consolidated revenue came in better than expected down 10% to $22.9 billion was a decline due to the expiration of the Walgreens contract.
Gross margin dollars were up slightly for the quarter resulting in a gross margin rate 58 basis points higher than the prior year's Q4.
This continues a 16-quarter trend of gross margin rate expansion.
SG&amp;A expenses moderately increased by 2.5% in Q4 driven by recent acquisitions and year-over-year competition related items.
Our core SG&amp;A costs were slightly favorable to last year due to our continuous focus on operational efficiencies.
Our consolidated non-GAAP operating margin rate increased 16 basis points to over 2%.
Net interest and other expenses was favorable in the fourth quarter versus prior year due in part to lower interest expense.
The non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was about 34% versus the prior year's 37%.
This period lower rate is related to favorable state tax outcomes in the quarter.
Our fourth quarter non-GAAP diluted average shares are outstanding was $343 million nearly $2 million favorable to last year's period.
During the quarter we purchased about $285 million worth of shares bringing the full year repurchase to $673 million.
We have over $700 million remaining on our board authorized repurchase program.
Moving on to consolidated cash flows and the balance sheet.
Our operations generated $715 million in cash flow during the quarter.
This brings the full year to approximately $2.5 billion include the expected benefit of more than $500 million from the unwind of the Walgreens business.
We continue to make good progress in reducing our overall networking capital base which are down 1.8 days largely related to a shift in customer mix.
Overall we ended Q4 with strong balance sheet including a cash balance of $2.9 billion with $420 million held internationally.
Now let's move to segment performance starting with Pharma.
Pharma segment revenue decreased 12% to $20.1 billion driven by the continued impact of the expiration of the Walgreens contract.
The decline was partially offset by organic sales growth especially in China.
The contribution of revenue from Walgreens in the prior years was approximately $5 billion for the quarter.
If you adjust for that contract loss our Pharma sales growth in Q4 was a strong 13% driven by both pricing and volume effects.
Specialty Solution have revenue growth of 21% versus the same period last year.
Our China business also contributed to Pharma revenue growth.
Total China sales were up 24% versus the prior period.
This was driven primarily by a local distribution business from both organic growth and as a result of our strategic geographic expansion.
Pharma segment profit decreased by 5% to $377 million primarily driven by the continued impact of the Walgreens contract termination which was partially offset by strong performance in our generic programs.
On the topic of generics I do want to mention that we saw a sequential quarter increase in contribution from generic manufacturer price increases although it was not to the level we experienced in our second quarter.
Manufacturer price increases continued to impact a relatively small basket of generic items.
The overall generic portfolio experienced net inflation in the low-single-digits in the quarter.
Very importantly our generic program saw strong sales growth of about 9% more favorably driven by strong double-digit growth in our stores program.
We also saw continued brand inflation in the low-double-digits about as we expected.
Pharma segment profit marginal rate increased by 14 basis points compared to the prior year's Q4 a reflection of the strength of our generic programs and our continued focus on margin expansion.
Moving on to the Medical segment performance in the quarter.
Medical revenue grew 4% in the fourth quarter versus last year driven by growth of existing customers including solid growth in our strategic hospital network accounts and the benefit of acquisitions.
Regarding our strategic hospital accounts we saw low-to-mid-single-digit growth in this key customer category in both Q4 and the full year.
This represents great work on the part of our medical team given the continued challenging utilization environment.
We expect more of the same in 2015 and beyond.
Medical segment profit declined 8% which includes two items worth a combined negative $13 million year-on-year.
First of these was a year-over-year increase in incentive compensation the majority of which is based on total company performance that's been allocated to the segments.
Secondly we also had some performance shortfalls in our Medical business in Canada which as George mentioned reflected substantial market pressures related to Medical spend.
Excluding these two items Medical segment profits would have shown solid growth.
Turning to Slide number 8 you will see our consolidated GAAP results for the quarter.
A $0.50 variance in non-GAAP results was primarily driven by amortization and other acquisition-related costs which reduced our GAAP results by $0.12 per share.
In Q4 of last year GAAP results was $2.51 lower than non-GAAP results predominantly due to an impairment charge associated with our nuclear division.
Now let me add a few additional comments on the full year.
Fiscal 2014 non-GAAP operating earnings were up 4%.
I am particularly pleased with our excellent progress in margin expansion with both the gross margin rate and the non-GAAP operating margin rate increasing versus last year up 80 basis points and 32 basis points respectively.
This is solid performance in a transition year and is a testament to our organization's flexibility adaptability and commitment to growth.
Fiscal 2014 non-GAAP EPS was $3.84 up 3% versus last year.
As a reminder our fiscal 2013 non-GAAP earnings per share included a discrete positive $0.18 per share benefit from the tax settlement.
In fiscal 2014 our non-GAAP earnings per share included a net $0.02 per share benefit from two large offsetting tax items.
Excluding these items in both years the company achieved non-GAAP earnings per share growth of 8%.
For the year Pharma segment revenues declined 12% but were better than expected as organic customer growth exceeded our original expectations.
Full year Pharma segment profits increased over the prior year and the margin rate expanded 27 basis points to 2.18%.
Our Medical segment achieved strong year-over-year growth with revenues up 9% and segment profit growth of nearly 20% including the impact of AssuraMed.
In addition Medical reported segment profit margin rate improvement up 35 basis points to 4.05%.
Very importantly during the year we also made excellent progress against all strategic priorities which George in some detail on his remarks.
We are also returning $1.1 billion to shareholders through share repurchase and dividends.
When I look at our entire fiscal 2014 I am extraordinarily proud of the growth and overall performance we were able to achieve given the headwind we are facing from the considerable shift in our customer base.
With a strong 2014 behind us I would say we are well positioned heading into a new fiscal year.
Before discussing our fiscal 2015 outlook I want to mention a change in the way we are providing guidance and reporting results going forward.
As noted in the release we have redefined our non-GAAP earnings measures to exclude LIFO credits or charges.
This change in our non-GAAP definition comes after conducting research on comparable healthcare companies and deciding to simplify comparisons of our results versus other peer companies.
We felt that doing this now when we do not have a LIFO charge in FY 2014 and do not expect one in fiscal 2015 made the most sense.
As George stated for fiscal 2015 we expect our non-GAAP earnings per share to be in the range of $4.10 to $4.30 and we expect revenues will increase modestly.
I will now walk through our other corporate assumptions for the year.
We anticipate diluted weighted average shares outstanding will be approximately $337 million to $338 million which implies that we intent to repurchase well over $500 million worth of shares during the year.
We expect net interest and other expense of $140 million to $150 million.
As a reminder our fiscal 2014 benefit of over $30 million related to gains of minority investments is not expected to repeat.
For fiscal 2015 we expect capital expenditures of about $350 million with the bulk of that spending on our strategic priorities and IT investments.
This amount is higher than historical averages as we focus on updating our information systems within the Pharmaceutical segment adding incremental manufacturing and 3PL capacity in certain areas and continuing to build our footprint in China.
We also expect amortization of intangible related assets to prior acquisitions to be approximately $177 million or about $0.33 per share.
We are projecting an overall non-GAAP tax rate in a range of 36% to 37%.
This tax rates reflect our expectations of further discussions and potential settlements of outstanding audit periods as well as a benefit of our tax planning effort.
Let me comment on a few segment specific assumptions.
In Pharma we are expecting a modest increase in revenues versus prior year.
As a reminder the impact of the Walgreens contract expiration will not last until September.
We still have a negative impact of two full months or about $3 billion in revenue and the fact that we have full quarter of earnings.
As we noted on our first quarter call given the nature of the wind down of the Walgreens contract the expiration did not significantly impact our operating earnings in Q1 of FY 2014 compared to the prior year period.
With respect to other key retail customer contracts all now extend beyond our fiscal 2015.
We are planning for the brand inflation rate to be similar to fiscal 2014.
Generic programs overall are expected to contribute positively to year-over-year profits.
Included in this expectation are a number of underlying assumptions.
First we forecast a slight year-over-year decline in the benefit of new generic launches.
Also we have modeled moderation in generic manufacturer price increases with less impact in fiscal 2015 than we experienced in fiscal 2014.
Remember that the frequency and magnitude of these generic price increases are uncertain and difficult to predict.
Across the overall generic portfolio our guidance range assumes slightly deflation versus fiscal 2014 which is a fairly typical pattern.
Also included in our expectations for performance under generic programs is benefit resulting from the formation of Red Oak Sourcing net of our payments with CVS Caremark.
As George mentioned in his remarks we are pleased with the work we are able to accomplish with our partners CVS creating a mutually beneficial long-term joint venture.
As we work together to get this venture up and running over the six months that are left since the announcement of the deal we further refine certain aspects of our agreement.
I would like to cover those briefly.
First the initial payment of CVS is delayed in to our fiscal 2015 second quarter reflecting the operational ramp up associated with this venture.
To be clear the total amount of our fixed payment from Cardinal Health to CVS over the life of the 10-year agreement remains the same.
This is simply a slight timing shift.
The actual quarterly fixed amount will be $25.6 million spread over 39 quarters instead of 40.
This fixed payment of $25.6 million will be expensed evenly on a monthly basis beginning with a realization of meaningful benefits from this JV.
With the operational ramp up we have modeled minimal net benefit from the JV in our first quarter of 2015.
We expect during the course of the fiscal year that the value to us will ramp.
The payment expense will be reported in our cost of goods sold.
Second if certain milestones were achieved we will make additional predetermined quarterly payments to CVS beginning in our fiscal 2016.
Reflects the long-term nature of the deal and is designed to align incentives.
Again all assumed benefits and expected payments are included in our fiscal 2015 guidance and longer-term goals.
We are very pleased that we are able to get this joint venture up and running in early July as we have planned.
And we look forward to our continued partnership with CVS and the opportunity to grow the strategic relationship.
Finally to conclude our Pharmaceutical segment assumption we expect continued growth in our specialty and China division as well as increased investment in information systems within the segment.
Looking to our Medical segment we are planning for low-to-mid-single-digit revenue growth.
We also anticipate continuous segment profit growth and margin expansion primarily due to contribution to my strategic priorities in the second half of the fiscal year.
Our preferred products strategy will continue to develop as we move through the fiscal year.
As we discussed before preferred products are expected to be a contributor over the midterm as we expand our portfolio particularly in the physician preference area.
Additionally we continue to expect market growth -- sorry.
Additional we continue to expect above market growth from Cardinal Health At Home which is a new branding we have rolled out for AssuraMed platform.
As our Medical segment performance ramps over fiscal 2015 we expect a relatively flat utilization environment in the acute settings and mid-single-digit growth in the home setting.
As always we will keep our operations lean and use our flexible model to capture any upside related utilization should it appear.
Finally when we net together our assumptions for a slight headwind from commodities with a positive impact from foreign exchange these net assumptions essential neutral on a year-over-year basis.
Before I leave guidance I want to add a few comments related to the first quarter of 2015.
Typically we don't quarterly guidance but I do want to point out a few unique issues which will likely make Q1 our toughest quarter on both an absolute earnings basis and year-on-year growth.
From a compare standpoint keep in mind the last year's first quarter adversely a full quarter of earnings from Walgreens and a beneficial tax settlement of $0.18.
And again we have not modeled net benefit from the JV in or fiscal 2015 Q1 but expect that during the course of year the value to us will ramp.
And we will be investing to win in certain areas including the ramp up of our physician preference platforms and our IT upgrades in the Pharma business.
With that let me move on to my final remarks.
On the whole I am very proud of what we are able to accomplish this year.
At the beginning of fiscal 2014 we faced sizeable challenges.
And I could to be more proud that work of our teams resulted in a positive outcomes we are reporting today.
As we look forward we have the fundamental positioning a strategic alignment to make excellent progress against our long-term goals of margin expansion earnings growth and returns to shareholders.
With that let's begin Q&amp;A.
Operator please take our first question.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
At this time we'll take our first question from Ross Muken ISI Group.
So on the generic inflation front it seems just in general it's something that is incrementally hard to forecast just because of some of these one-off portfolio that you've talked about.
In terms of getting the buying organization kind of amenable to may be trying to pre-buy where there is opportunities or where you see in a certain category how do you foresee sort of your ability to kind of change the way you've been doing business to basically try to capture more of this? Or -- so basically what I'm asking is it's hard to forecast but if you could see it in a category it's obviously quite profitable.
I guess if I doesn't go into the guidance because it's tough to predict.
But how are you sort of working with everyone to kind of make sure you are able to modify this? And then how does that also change the way and then you deal with CVS on things like this? Ross this is George good morning and thanks for the question so little hard to answer this.
Partly as I said during my prepared comments we are literally just this past month beginning negotiations.
Let's start with some basics.
You're right it is difficult to model price increases.
We have talked a little bit about this in the past which is -- well it's difficult to sort of model the products.
We think about the environment and what are the conditions like.
And so as we start thinking about our year well we can't model each product necessarily perfectly.
We start thinking about how -- what are the conditions that lead to this whether or not that is intense regulatory environment or various market disruption.
Here's what I would say we have an incredibly sophisticated team and I would say now team put together when we look at Red Oak to evaluate the market and to build into our modeling all the assumptions around price and price increases.
I think we've done a recently good job of doing that.
We do what we can and we build that into our forecast.
So if you look at our FY 2015 guidance it includes some assumptions about way products go through and how they are priced.
But again it's really hard for me to say too much about this and that we're just beginning these discussions with manufactures.
But I will say that I couldn't be more excited about the quality and the know-how and the experience of the teams that have been put together to do this kind of work.
All right George that was a much better answer than my question was.
May be just turning to the Medical side of things that you guys have been pushing more on the preferred product side obviously with AccessClosure that gets deeper into cardio you have done stuff in ortho.
I think wound care make sense in a market.
I mean what's the response you're getting incrementally if you guys continue to move forward with the strategy? And where are you seeing the most openness and where are you seeing sort of the most pushback at the hospital level? I think in general we are seeing a tremendous responsiveness.
And I would say it's pretty consistently across the board at this point.
Again hospital systems are really facing different kinds of changes including reimbursement models that look different.
And so they're looking carefully not just about how they squeeze cost but how they change behaviors.
This is really a behavior change where they begin to think about forcing more standardization on the commodity types of products that are in their medical service category excuse me medical products category.
And I think our conversations have been really encouraging.
I've been involved in some of those myself.
Yes we've said along this is sort of a mid-term driver because this is a change of behavior.
But we are really excited about the response and we are excited about the build-out of our program not just with the step-in interventional cardiology but little bit of the growth of the platform that we guided in in ortho and our movement into wound care.
So we are really excited about it and we are getting a very positive response.
But again it's I would say more a little bit of a mid-term driver as we think about the way this will ramp.
Our next question from Lisa Gill with JP Morgan.
Thanks very much.
And good morning.
George kind of start with this quarter and just may be if we can talk about the revenue growth.
Revenue growth is coming in substantially better than our expectation.
Could you speak anything on the specialty side some of your competitors called out Hep C or do you think we're seeing the beginning stages of the Affordable Care Act? Hi.
Good morning Lisa.
It's interesting question.
We'll start with the Hep C first.
I would say that the Hep C products did have some impact on revenues although I would say was not that meaningful and a less effect on margins.
So I wouldn't say it was a major driver of our business.
What we are seeing I think -- first of all again the balance of our portfolio of customers is improving.
We are getting great response.
We have seen some important growth in our strategic accounts meaning I think we're identifying the right customers who really are positioned to compete in a changing environment.
So I think in general when I look at execution we managed it pretty rigorously.
We are executing on our things that we're supposed to be doing with our customers and I just think in general we've seen good performance on a revenue basis across the business.
Specialty again you mentioned specifically just a reminder the two FC drugs are going really primarily through traditional distribution channel so they are unique drugs obviously in many ways.
They are drug patient populations with very special needs.
But these are solids and are moving through the traditional drug channel rather than with specialty.
Our specialty growth is really not been about that; it's been about organic growth picking up new accounts and adding to our service package.
And then my second question would just be med-surg Canada.
Jeff called this out specifically as an area -- or you've called that out as an area that didn't meet your expectations.
Can you just go into a little more detail as to what's going on in that market right now? Is it a reimbursement issue? How do we think about med-surg in Canada? I'm going to let Jeff touch on it.
Lisa I'll take it.
This is my home country.
We have seen some pressures in the hospital market in Canada and primarily related to reimbursement pressures on hospitals due to government funding changes.
So there have been generally low utilization and pressures on pricing over the past 6 to 12 months.
And as George said we are taking the necessary steps to address those performance shortfalls both organizationally from a portfolio standpoint and from a cost standpoint and we're being very encouraged given strength of our Canadian business over the medium-term we will see that business get back on the right track.
And our next question from Eric Percher of Barclays.
Thank you.
A question on capital allocation.
Appreciate the detail around repurchase and IT investment.
So as you think back over the last year with investments in specialty and med-surg do you think we're seeing a natural balance? I know you have more cash that you can put to use than just what you're generating.
Where do you think the opportunities are? Well Eric good morning we have identified a number of areas that we've been public about that are high priority areas for us and obviously we're doing everything we can in every one of those strategic areas to improve our strategic positioning and to be in a position to win.
Where we can deploy capital against them we will.
So we've done some obviously major work in generic this year specialty has been a target our consumables and physician preference item area has been an area of priority for us.
Obviously we look at diversified customer base; the home continues to be an area of real interest for us you think about again the continuum of care.
And then of course China has been our main priority in terms of our international expansion because we've seen so much opportunity.
We will continue to look globally to see whether or not the opportunities that really enhance our long-term positioning.
Jeff if you want to add anything to it.
From a external standpoint with respect to shareholder return obviously we remain very committed to our dividend as demonstrated by our Board's recent decision to increase the dividend by a further 13% heading into this year.
And as we said consistently for the past several years we will look at share repo opportunistically and from a flexible standpoint to look for opportunities to buy back shares and enhance shareholder returns again as we did in 2014 and as we have modeled for 2015 as well.
And as you think about specialty it feels like you've tried to stay away from the lower-margin areas and build the services piece.
Do you feel like there's more to be built there? Or do the acquisitions you made this year position you to grow organically? Well I think there is more opportunity there.
Again if you think about what's happening in the Pharmaceutical side and the R&amp;D side and the need both of these unique patient population the physicians who are serving them in biopharmaceutical companies I think there is a real opportunity there and so we will continue to look organically how we build out our programs.
We've got some really exciting work that we can do on the technology side internally.
But if we see something externally that adds to our positioning we're certainly going to be open to it.
And our next question from Charles Rhyee from Cowen and Company.
Thanks guys.
George Jeff just moving back to Medical for a second we always talk about Canada.
What about on the alternate side? You talked about the small physician practice needing some work.
Can you talk about; is this an issue of scale? Is this an area where you think you need to invest more maybe build more assets here? May be talk about that area.
Good morning Charles thanks.
So I think when we talk about the small physician office obviously we started from a small base so certainly scale has helped.
But I would also say this -- that our physical operational footprint if you look at the way we are designed over many years so really more tuned to larger type customers.
So we've had to do some repositioning of our facilities and that sort of touch points with those smaller accounts.
It's just a little bit of more like a -- almost like a B2C than a B2B business.
So I think we have to just do some thinking about how we position respectively both to touch them in a simple way and to serve them on our platform and so we've been looking at various ways to enhance that capability and that's the position there.
Generally going back to the beginning of your question our Medical business actually is performing well.
I mean if you look at this in a low utilization environment and you take as a discrete factor that Jeff just described our core business is doing well.
Our strategic accounts are growing.
We grow our consumables.
We've significantly expanded our footprint on position preference in AssuraMed achieved the numbers that we said that they would achieve in terms of accretion.
So I'm feeling pretty optimistic about the way we're position in that business and we'll just wrestle through some of those smaller challenges.
Okay that's great.
If I recall though when you acquired AssuraMed last year what a year and a half ago that was one of the things you talked about them bringing you sort of some expertise in small picking and packing that could help your physician business.
Has that not yet translated or is that still your -- are we then closer to it? Yes that's a great observation.
I should have pointed it out.
I think it has been helpful but I would also say this we've had some real opportunity directly in the home estate.
And so as we've looked at this past year most of our efforts would be AssuraMed or Cardinal At Home -- I managed somehow to bury the lead as they say before defining our new branding.
Our Cardinal At Home actually has more significant opportunity directly in that business and that's really where we've devoted most of our energy.
We'll take our next question from Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks for the questions.
Just a couple on the assumptions around guidance.
One I thought my understanding here was that there would be more brand to generic conversions in fiscal 2015 versus fiscal 2014.
So just trying to understand the assumption a little bit better about less contribution from new generic launches.
Hey Bob this is Jeff.
Yes what I said was that the benefit that accrued to us from new generic launches in 2015 we expect it to be slightly less than 2014.
Whether the actual amount of branded dollars that those generic are not increased or decreased is a different question? What we look at -- when we look at each launch on a case-by-case basis and look at whether it's exclusive or not and the timing et cetera the net result in our forecast is a slight decrease in the contributions from new generic launches.
Now obviously like every year there is a certain amount of estimates and educated guesswork that goes on and inevitably the year turns out a little bit different than we expected.
And frankly the last couple of years turned out more positive than we expected.
So we'll continue to assess this as the year goes on but based on our best information right now we think the benefit to us is a slight decrease.
And I guess the follow-up just around the assumptions again would be around the assumption around slight generic deflation.
I would think your average price per generic would be higher in 2015 relative to 2014 just again if I think about all the attractive anticipated launches in 2015.
I guess I'm just trying to better understand if the expectation for slight generic deflation is on your total book or is this more a comment on a like-for-like generic basis year over year? Its like-for-like generic Bob.
The way we calculate generic deflation is we look at all the generics we had on our book prior year and look at their expected prices as a portfolio for the next year.
So it actually does not include generics that launch over the course of the year so it's a like-for-like analysis.
We'll take our next question from Glen Santangelo with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
It's actually Jeff Bailin in for Glen.
Thanks for taking the questions.
So I know China's been a nice growth driver for you guys and the company has employed some pretty rigorous standards looking at other international markets.
But as you consider the evolving marketplace and with your competitors currently in both Europe and Brazil do either of those markets screen incrementally more interesting than in the past right now? Yes so -- good morning Jeff.
This is George speaking.
I would say this; we have for many years actually looked around the international environment to see where there are opportunities for us to bring our value into the system.
And we've continued to look at Europe Brazil has always been in our sights we've mentioned that obviously China has been a priority for us.
We'll continue to evaluate whether or not we think that there is opportunity and value for our shareholders in deploying capital into those markets.
To this date we've continued to evaluate and we've made decision based on what we see as the opportunity to create value sustainable competitive advantage and value creation for our shareholders.
So we'll continue to look at many markets.
The fact that a competitor makes a move in one market is not our driver of strategy.
Our driver of strategy will be what we do to compete effectively and create value for all of our shareholders.
I appreciate that color.
Just a follow-up on the sourcing JV with CVS.
I know it's obviously in the early months of that relationship but anything you can comment on how your conversations with your other customers have proceeded in terms of any that might not buy generics from today perhaps being incrementally more interested in being involved on their generic sourcing with Cardinal? Yes so Jeff I'll give you a bit of a generalized answer because I have to it's a tricky area.
But I would say that we have substantially through the joint venture Red Oak enhanced our scale and ultimately it's about being in the most competitive position possible.
I think the market is probably going through its own changes various players in the market as they look at their own ability to compete and compete effectively in this market.
I think this may create some opportunities for us as companies look and see what their own capability looks like and whether or not they need to rethink their own model.
And so I don't think it will be unusual to expect that those kinds of compensations are going on in this market and I think we're extremely well positioned should our customer base or some of the customer base rethink the way their models work.
And our next question from Ricky Goldwasser Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning.
First question just some clarification on the progression of fiscal year 2015 guidance.
So I know Jeff you said that the joint venture will have an impact on 1Q 2015 in terms of the timing of contribution of benefit versus payment.
But just to clarify do you expect the joint venture to be dilutive to your first fiscal 2015 quarter or will you be able to offset the $25 million payment by the benefit from better sourcing? Thanks for that question Ricky.
First of all I don't expect that we will expense the full amount of the $25.6 million payment in Q1.
As I indicated in the call and it's a bit of a selleeb.
But we will begin expensing that on a monthly basis once substantial benefits the material benefits begin to be realized.
I think the more important part of your question though is whether we expect net benefits in Q1 and I would say yes we do but I would say that not to any meaningful extent.
But I do expect the benefit to slightly outweigh any expense that we will incur in Q1.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then secondly just back to the topic of generic price inflation you talked in your prepared remarks about net inflation being in low-single-digits.
Your competitors as well are check as opposed to high-single-digits in the quarter.
I know you also talked about your generic basket and your portfolio.
But -- so can you just explain to us why would your basket be different versus your competitors' assuming that you're seeing inflation on retail drugs which I assume you have got like similar share within the retail market as your two other competitors? Good question Ricky.
First of all I do not know exactly how our competitors calculate generic inflation or deflation.
As I said to Bob earlier on though we calculate it based on a like-for-like analysis of drugs that existed last year versus the price of those drugs this year looking at the entire portfolio weighted for the volume that we have.
Now again it's possible they calculate it slightly differently it's also possible that our mix of business is different.
We tend to have less mail order for example than our competitors may.
We may carry slightly different levels in inventory et cetera.
So I can't speak for our competitors.
But as I said I think low-single-digits actually describes what we saw during the quarter.
Ricky I will just add it would be hard to actually explain a reason that there is really any difference.
This probably has to do a calculation.
However one company calculates versus another but the market is a market.
So I'm not sure there's really a difference.
And our next question from David Larsen with Leerink Partners.
Hi.
Can you talk about your ability to ship products to large doc offices on hospital campuses versus the smaller doc offices in the community setting and progress you're making in shipping to alternate sites of care? Thanks.
Yes so I'll start again.
I think our ability to certain general across the system David is very strong.
It's probably the most challenging for us historically when we deal with very very small practices just in that the number of skews that they might order the way they order and sort of tick tack operations or not that weren't quite as designed for those.
But our ability to serve across for the channel is really high.
We got recognized again this year by Gartner as the number one supply chain company in healthcare.
This has been an area of real strength and fluency for us across the board but there are some little gaps where I think we need to do something differently or bad and we will continue to do that.
Okay.
So when you approach an IDN you can ship products to all their doc offices across all their sites of care pretty much? Yes we did an IDN we're able to make a very comprehensive offer and that's important for our strategy.
And our next question from John Kreger with William Blair.
Hi thanks very much.
A follow-up question on Medical.
Can you talk about your preferred product pipeline? I think you said you launched about 500 in fiscal 2014.
What would your expectation be for 2015? We have not at this point shared publically where we are in terms of our internal target.
But I do not think it would be unrealistic to expect a similar number.
We are aggressively going after that.
And so I would say it won't be surprising if we were in the same kind of range.
Great.
Thanks.
And Jeff I believe you mentioned as you talked about the sourcing venture that there could be an added milestone starting in 2016.
Can you just talk a bit more about that? What metrics would trigger that? Should we assume that that's an annual payment or more of a quarterly true-up? Yes I don't want to go into a lot of detail there.
But first of all the fixed payment the $1 billion in total basically stays intact versus what we've discussed earlier.
But as we went through the formation of this joint venture looked at the long-term nature of the deal looked at the desire it creates coming instead of going forward we did agree that again achieving certain milestones and I won't go into specifically what those are but should be a key certain milestones that would be additional payments that will be made on any quarterly basis after achieving those milestones.
That's probably all the detail I want to get into at this point John.
And our next question from Greg Bolan with Sterne Agee.
Hey thanks for taking the questions.
Just on the Medical segment operating margin I understand Canada was one source of the weakness the other maybe a little bit weaker performance on the ambulatory side.
But just as we think about FY 2015 and we think about the margins that you guys put up this quarter it sounds like you guys possibly have done some restructuring in Canada made some pretty decent changes.
What as we think about kind of the trajectory of Medical segment operating income should we be kind of thinking about throughout fiscal 2015? Is it kind of -- just may be this is a low point and just off of that point may be kind of an ascending trajectory? Or is it going to be somewhat spotty? How should we be thinking about Medical? Yes Greg good question.
Thank you.
First of all just to clarify the two biggest negative drivers in Q4 were Canada as you referenced and incentive compensation that the amount that was pushed down to the segment based on overall corporate performance was higher than last year.
Now George also indicated some disappointment with our performance in the small physician's office but from a qualitative standpoint that was not one of the bigger drivers in the quarter.
Getting to the root of your question by going forward we do expect overtime to continue to drive margin expansion within the Medical segments and obviously segment profit growth as well.
However that won't necessarily be consistent every quarter.
And in terms of the profile next year I expect most of the beneficial improvement will be back loaded for the second two quarters of the year.
First half of the year will be largely about continuing to invest in our strategic priority particularly our physician preference items to ensure that we're reaching critical math in those of areas and I expect to begin seeing the fruits of those labors as we get into the second half of the year and beyond.
That's great thanks.
And then I'm sorry if I missed this but just the CapEx guidance for fiscal 2015 obviously going higher.
Can you just remind me what's driving that please? Yes a number of things.
First of all we're going to continue to invest to improve and expand our information systems within the Pharmaceutical segment that's number one.
Number two we are increasing capacity both for -- some of our physicians I'm sorry our preferred product manufacturing and for our 3PL capacity and capabilities.
And fourthly we're going to continue to invest to expand our geographic presence in China.
Those are some of the major items I would generally characterize as though as investments in IT and investments in our key strategic priorities including the ones I just mentioned.
And our next question from George Hill Deutsche Bank.
Good morning Jeff and George and thanks for taking the question.
And I'll say Jeff I look forward to grabbing a blue or a Canadian at some point during the farewell tour.
Just maybe I missed this point already but I actually thought your fiscal 2015 was going to be a better generics launch year than your fiscal 2014 given some of the drugs that have been pushed out and what the calendar looks like for your fiscal 2015.
Is there any more color you can give us on why fiscal 2015 isn't an improvement from the launch calendar perspective or kind of maybe what you're seeing that we're not seeing? So first of all I would not describe it as a major drop-off like the clients in terms of the expected impact.
Obviously depends on what assumptions you make for some of the larger launches.
For example the Nexium launch still a big question mark right regarding when and how it's going to get launched.
And so depending on what you assume for that that can have a fairly material impact on the overall assumptions for the year.
So it really comes down to our assumptions for each of the individual major launches and obviously we could be wrong.
We tend to model these things relatively conservatively.
Okay.
And then maybe just a follow-up -- on the incremental payments that would get made as part of Red Oak I would imagine that that would assume that you guys are going to deliver earnings performance above and beyond the original agreement if you guys are required to make incremental payments to CVS.
And then I might even ask with that kind of why renegotiate the deal that way? I thought part of the deal was that you guys were making the $100 million payment such that you could enjoy some more of the upside.
What led to CVS having the ability to call back some of the upside? Yes George the lift I think in general we've -- as we got through the process and more information more data and the teams got together we felt it was appropriate to make a number of adaptations.
Again this is a long-term deal.
And we want to make sure that it reflects the direct value equation for both parties.
So we did make some modifications that under certain circumstances and certain milestones are achieved we make some additional payment.
This we feel very positive about this and the final terms of our agreement and the strength of the relationship and economics that will flow from it.
I guess I would leave it at that.
And our next question from Steve Valiquette UBS.
Thanks good morning.
Just a few extra quick ones here on the Medical segment.
And I guess first for the AccessClosure deal which closed in mid May did that provide a positive EBIT contribution or an EBIT loss in the quarter just from the deal mechanics? And will that deal still hopefully be slightly accretive in fiscal 2015? Yes.
Hi Steve Jeff.
It was effectively neutral to our Q4 given that we're still just ramping it up and continuing to invest to expand our capabilities there.
And yes our assessment of it being slightly accretive in FY 2015 has not changed.
If anything or even more enthusiastic about the potential of that portfolio can bring to us in the future.
Yes the Mynx product line is really one we're excited about it.
And so as Jeff said we're feeling pretty enthusiastic about the way this is unfolding.
Okay.
One other quick one just on Red Oak even though the party's just getting started there.
Can you remind us again of the just feasibility of other partners potentially joining into that JV? We've seen with some of the others ones in the industry that other parties have come on later which have enhanced those.
I'm just curious again let's say feasibility of that happening for Red Oak.
Thanks.
So Steve we obviously we have always the opportunity to expand our customer base bringing people into the venture itself is a different story.
Today our joint venture is strictly between CVS Caremark and Cardinal Health.
And we're thrilled about that relationship.
But we always have the opportunity to again take advantage of the scale that we've achieved and sort of customers of every kind around the system.
We will take our next question from Garen Sarafian Citibank.
Good morning guys thanks for taking the questions.
First I want to follow-up on the JV questions.
I understand things -- it sounds like things were fluid in terms of as you looked at the deal and you guys made some adjustments.
But I'm just wondering does it continue to be a fluid kind of a situation where terms and payments might change one way or the other as you go through this year? Or is this sort of the final leg as you guys were finalizing the deal? Yes I think we've -- thanks for the question Garen and good morning.
I think we've at this point finalized all the agreements that formed the venture.
Obviously it's a fluid market.
So we're always as a company as we sell products we refine our market condition.
But all the terms that are part of the joint venture agreement are now done and complete.
Red Oak has formed it has got leadership and talent and it's negotiating directly with manufactures today.
Got it.
Great.
And then just a follow-up on this fiscal year.
Just on the distribution of EPS I know you try to stay away from giving quarterly guidance but there seems to be first quarter some comments that it will be the most challenging through this year.
With Red Oak coming on to the back half of the year it looks like the slope may be a little bit steeper towards the back end.
But when I look at your historical numbers the back half really hasn't exceeded about 53% 54% of your annual earnings.
So do you expect this year to be higher than that? Or if you can just give us any sort of quarterly progression that would be really helpful.
Thanks.
Yes.
Thanks.
I'm not going to get into too much details because I don't want to get down to slippery slope to provide detail quarterly guidance.
I will repeat what I said though that we do expect Q1 to be the lightest.
And just to clarify what you said we expect meaningful net benefit from the CVS JV to begin to materialize at the end of Q1 not towards the second half of the year as you mentioned.
But yes Q1 should be the lightest.
Beyond that I would say the rest of the quarter's fair amount of consistency.
We do have historical seasonality which tends to make our Q3 larger than the other quarters.
Over the last couple of years though that seasonality has continued to reduce as generics have taken up a bigger portion of the portfolio as less and less of our branded income come from contingent payments.
And the branded price increases have tended to be spread more evenly throughout the year.
That all said I would expect our Q3 still would be the strongest quarter of the year although probably less extreme that we might have seen two or three years ago.
And we will take our final question from Robert Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
George you had mentioned the possibility of expanding your relationship with CVS with Walgreens gone and the joint venture kind of up and running.
Are any updates here in terms of any kind of meaningful relationship expansions? Good morning Rob.
Yes just I would say again I probably have to reiterate what I had said earlier.
I think our relationship has probably never been stronger.
We continue to explore ways to create value for one another.
And I fully expect that to continue.
So I can't provide any more specifics in that other than to say that working our way through the incredibly intricate details of getting to this go-live has only strengthened I think our relationship and we feel god about that.
So it's probably as much as I can say.
Operator I think this was our last question.
Yes.
That concludes the question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Barrett at this time I'd like to turn the conference back over to you for additional or closing remarks.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Listen thank you to all for joining us today and giving us a chance to cover what was a really important and I think successful 2014.
We look forward to our FY 2015 and seeing all of you soon.
Thanks for dialing in.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Cardinal Health First Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Conference.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Sally Curley Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Lisa and welcome to Cardinal Health First Quarter Fiscal 2015 Earnings Call.
Today we will be making forward-looking statements.
The matters addressed in these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to the SEC filings and the Forward-looking statements slide at the beginning of the presentation which can be found on the Investor page of our website for a description of those risks and uncertainties.
In addition we will reference non-GAAP financial measures.
Information about the measures is included at the end of the slides.
I'd also like to remind you of a few upcoming investment conferences and events.
We will be webcasting our presentation at the Crdit Suisse First Boston Conference on November 11 in Phoenix.
And in addition we will be hosting one-on-one meetings at the Bank of America One-on-One Conference in Chicago on December 11.
Today's press release and details for any webcasted events are -- or will be posted on the IR section of the website at cardinalhealth.com.
So please make sure to visit the site often for any updated information.
We hope to see many of you in an upcoming event.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO George Barrett.
George? Thanks Sally and good morning everyone.
Our fiscal 2015 is off to a really good start.
Our organization performed well across the board.
And I'm proud of the work our people have done in positioning the organization to anticipate and address the evolving needs of a fast-changing market.
During Q1 we saw the growth in both Pharmaceutical and Medical segment profits.
Our gross margin rate expanded by over 40 basis points to 5.6%.
And we returned nearly $500 million in cash to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
Total revenues for the quarter were $24.1 billion a decline of 2% versus last year's first quarter.
This is the last quarter in which we will be comparing to a prior year period which included sales to Walgreens.
The declines in the Walgreens contract expiration was largely offset by sales growth from both new and existing customers.
Our first quarter non-GAAP diluted EPS was $1 down from last year's $1.10 which included an $0.18 benefit related to tax settlements.
Back in August as we began our fiscal 2015 year we provided a non-GAAP EPS guidance range of $4.10 to $4.30.
We are reaffirming that guidance today.
I will note however that while we still expect the contribution to profit to be more back-half weighted the strong start to the year is certainly an encouraging sign.
I'll provide a very quick overview of our first quarter which Jeff will cover in greater detail during his remarks.
I'd like to devote the rest of my time this morning to covering our progress on our strategic priorities.
Our Pharmaceutical segment reported revenues of $21.2 billion down 3%.
Revenue growth from both new and existing customers partially offset the Walgreens effect as I noted earlier.
Our Pharma segment margins continued to expand.
Pharmaceutical Distribution had an excellent beginning to the year.
We continue to outgrow all markets with the exception of chain drug where of course Walgreens affected the numbers.
And I'm happy to say this is the last quarter where we will feel the Walgreens quarterly headwind.
Our Pharma teams continue to demonstrate a deep understanding of market dynamics and those tools which can help our customers compete in this extraordinary market.
Investments in analytics reporting and dashboarding are giving customers needed visibility into their performance against critical metrics.
Improving performance is essential to network access and a top priority for pharmaceuticals.
Specialty Solutions continues its strong performance again showing double-digit sales growth in the first quarter.
And our Nuclear pharmacy business has made excellent progress after the dramatic market changes of the past few years.
The introduction of Xofigo a product used to treat metastatic cancers in bone has been an important introduction for the radiopharmaceutical market and should increasingly contribute to our Nuclear performance.
Our Medical segment had a good start to the year.
First quarter revenues were $2.9 billion up 5% and segment profit increased by more than 6%.
This is good news in the context of an environment in which system-wide utilization has remained somewhat subdued.
Cardinal Health at Home the former AssuraMed business continues to perform well.
We're particularly excited that our direct-to-patient business reported strong double-digit growth.
We continue to see great opportunity here enabled by an expanding product line and an increase in Cardinal Health brand of products for the home.
Overall our Medical segment continues to demonstrate great balance which is very valuable at a time with enormous and up and rapid change.
Just as important our Medical segment continues to innovate and explore new ways to bring value to a system hungry for solutions to new challenges.
I will touch on these as I discuss our strategic priorities.
Finally in relation to the quarter I would note that China had an outstanding first quarter with revenues up by more than 30% as well as expanding operating margins.
We continued to broaden our footprint build the direct-to-patient pharmacy business and offer both distribution and a widening range of services aligned with our biopharma and medical device partners.
As I mentioned earlier on the call I'd like to devote much of my time today to covering the progress we're making on our strategic priorities.
Over the past few years we have been intensifying our efforts in these priority areas.
Each of these priorities aligns with the powerful changes occurring around health care.
Success in these areas continues to contribute to value for our customers growth of our business and expansion of our margins.
These priorities include: generic pharmaceuticals; solutions in the specialty pharmaceutical arena; growth in our product and service offerings to hospitals and health systems; increasing presence in ambulatory; and post-acute settings and growth in the Chinese market.
So let me touch on each of these one by one.
First generics.
With close to 85% of all prescriptions being filled with a generic pharmaceutical it has never been more important to be a market leader.
From our perspective this requires several ingredients: first a solid base of customers who recognize the benefit of our model; second significant scale; and third the experience and know-how to source products from a complex and global supply network.
On the first we now serve over 20 000 retail pharmacies and nearly half of them use Cardinal Health as their primary source for generic drugs.
As it relates to scale and experience I'm extremely optimistic about the strategic and financial value of Red Oak our generic sourcing joint venture with CVS Health.
As you know Red Oak Sourcing has been up and operational since early July.
And I could not be more excited about the progress to date.
Red Oak will be the largest purchaser of generic drugs for the U.S.
market the world's largest generic market.
The leadership team of Red Oak has worked incredibly hard to design a model which is straightforward simple transparent for manufacturers with a single point of decision-making and clear working terms.
We've had an encouraging response from the manufacturers who appreciate the simplicity of the program and recognize the opportunity to work closely with us.
The group leverages the extensive knowledge of the Cardinal Health and CVS Health organizations about the global generic supply system.
Having said this any of you attending a Red Oak meeting would have difficulty identifying who was a former Cardinal Health employee and who came from CVS Health.
At this stage we can say that we fully expect to achieve our goals for the year.
Although as we've mentioned because of the transition out of each company's respective programs the benefits of Red Oak's new agreement will ramp over time.
Turning to Specialty.
As a health care system we are at an important inflection point in the application of scientific innovation which has been incubating over the past 2 decades.
We are seeing the commercialization of pharmaceutical therapies which leverage the convergence of the expansion of our understanding in human biology and the explosive access to big data.
And the result is a flow of drugs which offer both exciting new treatments for many of the challenging diseases of our time as well as the promise for cures.
It is in this context that our progress in Specialty should be viewed.
Although we typically don't break out our Specialty financials I wanted to just give you a sense of our progress.
We began the repositioning of our Specialty organization about 4 years ago with a business of approximately $1 billion.
Since that time our run rate for annual revenue has grown to approximately $5 billion.
Our Specialty Distribution has shown consistent growth over the past few years.
Further we acquired Sonexus Health a patient access and support hub in March of 2014.
Feedback and momentum from customers has been very positive and the asset fits very well into our overall biopharma offering.
In the new world of managing risk and improving the patient experience around quality cost and outcomes we are working with several major oncology practices on deploying new tools like our PathWare product to help them operate in this new environment.
We continue to advance our position and our support of community oncologists and specialists.
Turning to health systems and hospital solutions.
As healthcare goes through rapid changes we continue to focus on providing scaled solutions for our acute care customers that enable them to deliver great patient care more cost effectively.
First our physician preference item.
We believe that there is an opportunity to help our acute-care partners by delivering what we refer to as evidence-based equivalents in some medical surgical categories that represent significant pain points for our customers.
We have made tangible progress in this area and I'd like to provide more color on this.
We see the trauma space as an area of low clinical differentiation and weak standardization.
And with that in mind we invested in a business called Emerge Medical last year.
That product line has been increasing.
In the past quarter we assumed ownership of Emerge Medical to strengthen our position in orthopedics.
This will allow us to launch a full line of trauma products late in this fiscal year and into early FY '16 while building credibility with key institutions over the coming months.
The Emerge products were extremely well received at the Orthopaedic Trauma Association's Annual Meeting in Tampa just a few weeks ago.
About 6 months ago we completed the acquisition of AccessClosure as a first step into the interventional cardiology area.
AccessClosure has a simplified standardized and more forward-looking go-to-market model all built around the Mynx product line which gives us great presence and credibility with interventional cardiologists.
Finally consistent with our program to address physician preference items we acquired this past quarter a company called Innovative Therapies a negative pressure wound therapy company with a proven technology and we are now launching over 250 products in advanced and traditional wound care.
The combination of these acquisitions and the work that we've done these past few years gives us the foundation of a comprehensive program to help our customers deliver care in the most cost-effective way with the highest quality.
Beyond physician preference items we continue to believe that healthcare has significant efficiency gaps.
With this in mind we focused on innovations that improve the efficiency of the overall supply chain.
We've made several investments over the past 12 months to create new growth platforms.
We invested in an RFID technology called WaveMark an inventory management solution to help both suppliers and customers optimize their supply chain and reduce inventory and labor costs.
An example is an application targeted to tracking and tracing inventory flowing through a large customer's cath lab.
We have launched this and several other initiatives under our umbrella of the Cardinal Health logistics solutions.
Our customers have responded well as evidenced by the progress in this quarter.
As we move to alternate types of care like ambulatory and post-acute settings you've heard us talk consistently about the importance of being able to serve patients across the continuum of care.
We have a system in the U.S.
that was built to treat acute illness but a population increasingly suffering from multiple chronic illnesses.
This requires a rethinking of the way and the place in which we deliver care.
We've made important moves to address these channels.
First our ambulatory service centers have a market leading position with increasing connectivity to our IDN customers and have grown solidly in the last few years.
And we continue to take actions to cost -- to more cost effectively provide products and services to smaller physician practices.
Our acquisition of AssuraMed now called Cardinal Health at Home was a commitment to address a growing number of Americans who need care in the home.
The acquisition has gone extremely well and our direct-to-patient business continues to grow at double-digit rates.
Just a few comments about our progress in China.
When we entered China in 2010 with the acquisition of Yong Yu the business was a pharmaceutical-centric national distribution business providing basic import 3PL and warehousing functions with a fairly limited geographic presence.
Since then we have made substantial progress in China growing the business from approximately $1 billion in revenue in fiscal '11 to $2.6 billion in FY '14.
We have developed a strong local presence in 10 regions expanded DCs from 7 to 13 and completed 7 small tuck-in acquisitions.
We opened our first direct-to-patient specialty pharmacy in China in calendar 2013.
Identifying a niche we could fill using our unique competencies in compliance and secure supply chain.
Today we operate about 30 of these specialty retail pharmacies.
Expanding beyond pharmaceuticals we now handle a wide range of products for the Chinese market including clinical trial material medical devices and consumables vaccines diagnostics biologics and blood products.
We've added capabilities including industry-leading compliance management cold chain logistics in diagnostics and vaccine management data analytics capabilities and hospital pharmacy and retail channel services.
In summary our organization is well aligned around all of our enterprise-wide priorities and we're truly excited about the opportunities they represent.
I'd like to make a few quick comments about the Ebola situation as a number of you have asked us about whether there has been any implications for our business.
Let me start by saying that our organization responded quickly to the challenges confronting Liberia and other West African nations.
Our donations of products and supplies have been substantial and our people have demonstrated great generosity.
As it relates to concerns here in the U.S.
and the implications for our business I would say that we would not expect a demand for safety-related products and supplies to have any material impact on our economics.
We do anticipate some shortages of safety products particularly those recently specified by the CDC which as you might expect have experienced a sudden increase in demand.
We will continue to work closely with all customers and manufacturers to help navigate the supply issues.
As it relates the products we produce such as gloves we are operating at full capacity.
Before I turn the call over to Jeff since we last spoke we announced the appointment of Mike Kaufmann to succeed Jeff as the Chief Financial Officer of Cardinal Health.
Mike Jeff and I have been working closely to map out the transition.
Although Mike has not yet begun his new role we want to do give him a chance today to say a quick hello and introduce himself to those of you have not yet met him.
Mike? Thanks George.
I'm really excited to be moving into the CFO role.
What you may not know about me is that while I've spent most of my 24 years here at Cardinal Health in sales procurement and general management I've also been a division controller and CFO for our Medical and Pharmaceutical Distribution businesses.
I've also spent over 5 years in public accounting before I joined Cardinal.
So in many ways I'm going back to my roots.
George Jeff and I are already working together on the transition.
And with Jeff here through August I'm confident it will be smooth.
I look forward to meeting many of you over the coming months at the various conferences and events.
But for now I'll turn the call over to Jeff for his final earnings call as CFO.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you George and Mike.
I share George's sentiment in welcoming Mike and look forward to passing him the CFO baton officially in a few weeks.
As you can tell from George's remarks we're off to a strong start and making very good progress on the key strategic initiatives that will drive our performance this fiscal year and beyond.
In my prepared remarks I will first focus on outlining the drivers of the first quarter financial performance and then provide some insight into our expectations as we move through the remainder of fiscal '15.
You can refer to the slide presentation posted on our website as a guide to this discussion.
Although non-GAAP EPS for the quarter was $1 down 9% versus the prior year the first quarter of fiscal '14 included an $0.18 favorable impact related to the settlement of federal and state tax matters.
Eliminating the tax elements from the prior year non-GAAP EPS grew 9%.
Revenues at $24.1 billion exceeded our expectations in the first quarter.
Excluding the impact of the Walgreens contract expiration the fiscal 2015 first quarter revenue grew a robust 13%.
Gross margin dollars were up 6% for the quarter and the gross margin rate expanded 42 basis points versus the first quarter of last year.
Total SG&amp;A increased 6% versus the prior year driven by increased acquisition-related expenses.
Consolidated non-GAAP operating earnings were up 6% to $566 million.
The non-GAAP operating margin rate increased 18 basis points versus the prior year to 2.35%.
Interest and other expense was essentially flat to last year.
Our non-GAAP tax rate in the quarter was 36.5%.
As I previously mentioned in Q1 of last fiscal year the tax rate was unusually low due to the favorable impact of certain settlements.
Excluding those settlements the fiscal 2014 first quarter non-GAAP effective tax rate would have been 37.3% slightly higher than our tax rate in this fiscal year's first quarter.
Our first quarter diluted average shares outstanding were 340 million 3.6 million shares favorable to the prior year's quarter.
During the quarter we repurchased $360 million worth of shares.
And I'm confident we'll exceed the $500 million in share repurchase we mentioned in August as part of our FY '15 assumptions.
As of the end of Q1 we had almost $1.4 billion of repo authorization remaining under our Board approval.
Moving to consolidated cash flows in the balance sheet.
Operating cash flow in the quarter was relatively light but largely as the function of timing as we saw some shift between quarters.
As a reminder OCF in Q1 of FY '14 was unusually high due to the accelerated nature of the wind down of the Walgreens contract.
At the end of this quarter just ended we had $2.5 billion in cash on our balance sheet which includes $447 million held internationally.
Working capital days came in at 8.7 days.
In comparison to the prior year it's really meaningful this quarter as last year's figures were skewed due to the Walgreens contract rollout.
Now let's move to segment performance starting with Pharma.
Pharmaceutical segment revenue declined 3% to $21.2 billion.
As we mentioned the quarter comparison includes 2 months of impact in Q1 of FY '14 related to the conclusion of the Walgreens contract.
Excluding that impact Pharma segment revenues grew 15% year-over-year driven by growth in our existing customer base and new customers as well as strong growth in our Pharma segment in China.
In addition to China Pharma revenues reflect increases across our generics specialty and Nuclear businesses.
Pharma segment profit increased 4% to $451 million with a margin rate up 14 basis points compared to the prior year's Q1.
These solid results are due to growth in new and existing customers as well as strong performance under our generics programs.
With respect to our generics programs the net impact of the Red Oak JV was slightly accretive in the quarter although it's still early in a ramp-up of the benefits we're expecting.
And we did see a slight year-over-year increase in contribution from generic price increases in the quarter.
Overall generic percent inflation was higher than last year's Q1 but originally consistent with Q4 of last year.
As a reminder we calculate generic deflation or inflation based on products that have been in the market for at least a year and based on weighted average selling price.
And finally I want to note that the quarter includes benefit from resolution of some long-standing customer issues worth about $20 million.
Let's go down to the Medical segment performance.
Revenue for the Medical segment increased 5% to $2.9 billion driven by acquisitions and a net positive impact of customer growth.
Within our strategic hospital accounts we continue to see organic growth with those customers increasing almost 4%.
This is an indication that we're focusing on the things that are most important to this customer base.
More broadly we're seeing that overall utilization has stabilized to some extent and there are pockets developed [ph] at usage within healthcare.
However it is not yet at a point where we would describe it as an uptick in overall market utilization.
During the quarter Medical segment profit increased over 6% to $113 million.
This increase is a result of profit growth in Cardinal Health branded products as well as growth in services partially offset by a decline in contribution from national brands.
Our Canadian business continues to operate in a tough market environment but we are implementing the operational and product mix changes necessary to adapt.
Finally as George mentioned we have now entered into 3 categories we were targeting for our Cardinal Health brand physician preference items.
While we are pleased with this progress we are still early -- we are still in the early stages of this medium-term driver and expect a gradual ramp during the course of the year.
By now much of the focus is on launching the products and positioning our organization for future growth in this area.
I'd also like to make a few comments on our China business which spans both of our reporting segments.
As we approach the 4-year anniversary of the initial Yong Yu acquisition I am extremely pleased with the progress we have made much of which George highlighted in his remarks.
China revenue saw strong growth again this quarter posting a year-over-year increase of 34% driven by new and existing customers.
We continued to significantly outpace the healthcare market growth in China while pursuing our strategy of a geographic expansion to the relevant population centers and expanding our capabilities to meet the needs of this unique market.
Turning to Slide #6 you'll see our consolidated GAAP results for the quarter.
The $0.22 variance to non-GAAP results was primarily driven by amortization and other acquisition-related costs and litigation expenses.
Litigation expenses increased due to a $27 million reserve related to the previously disclosed Florida DEA matter.
Looking to the rest of the fiscal year.
We are reaffirming our non-GAAP earnings per share guidance we provided in August of $4.10 to $4.30.
Reflecting this range are a few assumptions which we think are worth updating from the expectations we had outlined when we spoke to you during our August earnings call.
First we are incrementally more positive on the consolidated revenue growth for the full year which we have previously described as up modestly.
This is largely driven by pharma brand sales.
Second we have reduced our forecast for earnings contribution from new generic launches.
On a specific note built into our original planned assumptions for our Pharma segment was a forecast for a generic Nexium launch in November of this year.
However given recent developments we no longer expect any benefit in our fiscal 2015 from a generic Nexium launch.
Third given what we have seen in the first quarter our expectation for full year generic pricing has changed from slight deflation to slight inflation.
However our full year forecast for the earnings impact from generic price increase remains lower than the amount we realized last year.
Finally given recent oil price movements we do forecast some benefit in certain of our commodity costs within the Medical segment in the second half of the year versus original expectation.
However that upside is partially offset by negative foreign exchange movements.
Most of the underlying corporate assumptions shown on Slide 9 remain unchanged from our previous comments.
However I do want to mention a couple of items.
We still expect the full year tax rate to be between 36% and 37%.
As we said previously this will likely fluctuate quarterly due to the unique items affecting individual periods.
Also note that we are increasing our assumption for acquisition-related intangible amortization to approximately $184 million or $0.35 per share.
This change is due to a few smaller acquisitions that closed during the quarter.
It has no impact on our non-GAAP earnings.
So when you add it all up and recognizing the fact that we're only 1 quarter into the year our full year guidance range has not changed.
One final comment about the evolution of earnings over the course of the year a pattern which has not really changed substantially from our original expectations.
We continue to expect the year to be quite back-half loaded from an operating earnings growth standpoint driven by a few factors.
As I stated previously the benefits in the Red Oak Sourcing entity will ramp over time.
Further we'll be investing upfront to accelerate the growth of Cardinal Health brand physician preference items over the medium term.
Bottom line there are a number of puts and takes to the year.
However overall I feel good about our organization's ability to respond to a rapidly changing environment and how we are positioned coming into the first quarter.
In closing I'd like to say that after almost 40 earnings calls more than 150 sell-side events and 1 700 or so investor meetings I'm certainly ready to sleep a little more.
As I've said to some of you in person I've always considered investor relations to be one of the most gratifying parts of my role.
I view investors and analysts as my customers and I've appreciated the back and forth and relationships we've enjoyed over the past decade.
And I take pride that your confidence and investments in Cardinal have been rewarded over the years.
To all of our Cardinal employees you'll still see me around through next summer.
I look forward to working with Mike as we transition him into the CFO role and to continue to work closely with George and my China colleagues until my retirement next August.
This is my last earnings call as your CFO so let me just say what a privilege it has been to serve you in this role for the past 9.5 years.
We've been through a lot together and you created a great company of which we can be very proud.
Thank you all.
So with that I'll say goodbye for now.
Operator let's begin our Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Ross Muken with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I was curious if you think the Canadian business was weak as a protest to your leaving the company.
I'm sure that had a big piece to play in it yes Ross.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just -- yes there was a lot of assumption changes it seemed like on the generics side.
We know about some of the pushouts and obviously we've all been tracking inflation.
I mean as you look at the performance in the Pharma business I mean x lag obviously the growth was pretty spectacular.
As you sort of break down your thoughts more so on the profit side for the quarter obviously not much you can give on the number side but just more anecdotally where do you feel like you really sort of excelled on margin dollars? And where are you hoping for a little bit better performance in the year? Obviously we know Red Oak is going to come in but I'm curious just more so on the line items.
Let me just start.
I think part of the driver for us is a focus on key priorities and that really influences the mix of our product lines and services.
And so as we look across the business those areas where we're growing I think are higher value areas for our customer base.
And as a result they tend to be higher-margin businesses for us.
So again I think we're doing very well in generics.
That customer base is expanding.
Our specialty business continues to grow.
On our medical side again utilization was okay.
Obviously were still seeing it to be somewhat subdued.
But I think we're really doing well with our strategic accounts and then again with key products in those accounts that are really important drivers for us and important value drivers for them.
So I think it's largely about a very clear focus on priorities and mix.
Jeff I don't know what we might want to add to that.
Yes.
I mean if you look at -- I'll start with Pharma.
If you look at each of the different businesses within the Pharma business you got the core Pharma Distribution Nuclear specialty and the China piece that's relevant to Pharma they all outperformed our expectations for the quarter.
So I'd say really across the board we're pretty pleased with the results.
But I think you touched on the one area that wasn't a disappointment but I think we're still not seeing the full potential from yet and that's the Red Oak JV.
As we've always said there's going to be a ramp-up over time.
Q1 was largely about setting up the JV starting the discussions with the manufacturers and starting to sign up manufacturers.
But as we've always expected the actual benefit that will flow through to us will come over time.
So I'd say that's the one piece that was largely missing from Q1 but that was as expected.
Yes it's important.
That is what we anticipated.
So again not just one that didn't happen I think that's key is that we know that that flows as the year goes.
On the...
And just -- yes go ahead.
No I was going to say on the Medical side obviously we're pleased to see some of the profit growth for the quarter particularly in a utilization environment that still really hasn't ticked up yet.
I think the one area that we're -- again this is not a disappointment just something that we knew was going to happen.
We're still investing in our physician preference item rollouts.
And it's more of an investment story right now than it is a profit story but that's expected.
We want to make sure that we're properly positioned and we have the right portfolio of products and the right sales force and organizations supporting it et cetera.
So we're going to see those benefits more towards the latter part of this fiscal year and heading into next year.
So again not a disappointment just something that really wasn't a significant driver for us in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just quickly it seems like you picked up the tuck-in M&amp;A activity strictly in the Medical side.
You've got sort of a differentiated strategy there.
What's the pipeline look like? And do you feel like you're filling in a lot of the holes? You moved into wound care you've got some stuff in ortho now.
What else is sort of left? Well I mean I think now it's executing.
As Jeff said these are major initiatives for us that we've always described as sort of midterm drivers Ross.
So I think the positioning on orthopedics is really good.
By the end of this year we're going to start to see some of that flow through the system.
The move into cardiovascular interventional cardiology I think was really exciting for us.
It's doing well and that bag will begin to fill.
And then as we think about wound care that's a really interesting area for us.
And as I mentioned we are talking about 250 launches that are sort of in process.
So I think now it's more about rolling it out executing and we're really excited about these programs.
And we'll go now to Lisa Gill from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> And Jeff just let me say that I wish you well in your retirement and I really enjoyed working with you over the years and the last 40-plus earnings calls.
So my first question really George just to follow up on what you're talking about around PPI products and clearly tuck-in acquisitions.
But do you see any bigger opportunities in the market? This is clearly a place that the Cardinal has differentiated themselves on the med-surg side.
I think I heard you earlier talking about continuing to take action to deliver products to physician offices.
Do you feel like you have what you need in order to deliver to physician offices? Or do you need to make an acquisition to continue to grow that business? So there are 2 parts to that question.
The first one is really around our PPI program.
And again I think for us we like where we are.
We'll continue always to look for opportunities to accelerate those programs.
So we've got sort of a dual responsibility now.
One is to make sure that we're doing the right strategic things to get the bag position to sell with good coverage and the second part is really about execution and making it happen.
So I think we've got a great foundation now but we'll continue to look at opportunities both organically to drive the program new products and whether or not there may or may not be opportunities externally.
The second part is really about the physician's office.
And here's what I'd say.
I would say again there are sort of 2 stories to it.
Part of the physician office business as you know is increasingly affiliating with the IDNs and we've had obviously an enterprise-wide relationship with many of those IDNs and tend to be stronger there.
We've been less strong in those independent practices and we continue to look at various ways to strengthen that part of our business.
But I think overall as I look -- if I draw a continuum of our business we feel pretty strong in the continuum of care but we'll continue to look at ways to strengthen any pockets of -- new pockets where we're not quite as strong.
Research Division</strong> I guess really what I'm looking for is as we think about Cardinal you've got a lot of cash spinning on your balance sheet your business is running very well should we expect to see you do a larger acquisition this year? I mean that's really what I'm looking at.
So I was trying to figure out different places where you could potentially add to your business.
But really the core of my question is should we expect Cardinal to do something bigger in this fiscal year? Yes I know.
I totally understand the question Lisa.
I think you know it's a hard one to answer.
I think you should expect Cardinal to deploy its capital efficiently and I hope very smartly.
So when we see opportunities externally that we think drive our strategies we are not going to be shy about pursuing them but we also see obligation to make sure that we're returning cash to shareholders.
If those opportunities arent appearing in the right way strategically as it relates to acquisitions then we'll look very carefully at how we deploy capital.
Jeff any -- do you want to...
An example of that is what happened in the first quarter right? We were building up cash and those significant opportunities were executed during Q1.
So we found an opportunity to use that cash to buy back shares and that's sort of our -- will be our ongoing approach to it.
And we'll take our next question from George Hill from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> And Jeff I'll continue with pats on the back.
Nice work.
And it's been a pleasure working with you.
Thanks George.
Research Division</strong> I ask -- one thing I'd like to revisit is Red Oak.
I'm kind of surprised to hear that it's been accretive this early in the JV.
I guess what I would -- I'd ask a couple of things is -- could you provide -- I don't know if you can provide any more color on the accretion but I assume it was accretive net of the payment to CVS.
And then the other comment George that you made was that manufacturers appreciate kind of how simple and streamlined the program is.
I guess is there any color that you can give us on how Red Oak might be -- or how you guys perceive Red Oak to be differentiated from any of the other procurement programs? [indiscernible] George.
Again thanks for the nice words.
We did not expense any of the payment to Cardinal Health in the first quarter.
That payment from a cash standpoint will flow for the first time in Q2 of this year and we'll begin expensing it on a monthly basis starting in October.
So there was no expense related to that payment in Q1.
So the benefit that we saw largely flow to the bottom line although I would describe those benefits as relatively minimal at this point.
George I'll sort of touch on the second one.
Again I'm going to be careful because obviously this is -- the work that we're doing here in Red Oak and the relationships with the manufacturers is quite proprietary and sensitive.
I would just say this.
There's a lot of change happening in the system that could be very disquieting for people.
We recognized early on that a key to our relationship with manufacturers was to be very very clear about terms and conditions about where the decisions were going to be made about -- there are so many mechanical parts in a generic program moving parts.
And we realized that if we could make that very very simple that that would be appreciated.
And that has some value to the manufacturers.
And so what I would say without going too far into it is that we've had a huge number of meetings already.
We're getting very good and very positive feedback that people know what we're trying to do they understand it.
And I would say people -- and they're really cooperative in working with us and they've expressed some support for the way we've approached this and just the simplicity of the program.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe just a quick follow-up there would be is it seems like if you've looked at the other procurement situations that have taken place in the industry the ramp that seems to come from these JVs or whatever we want to call them actually winds up being pretty quick.
I would just ask is that your assumption as well is that Red Oak will ramp pretty quickly and we should -- if we think about by the end of fiscal '15 exiting the year we should probably see pretty close to the full annualized benefit? Well let me start first and then I'll turn it to Jeff.
This is George.
I probably would not comment on anybody else's programs and the speed at which they can achieve that.
It's just not my place.
I think for us I'm incredibly proud of the work that's been done in less than a year to get this thing rolling.
You would be astonished at how many moving parts there are.
So great work has been done.
As we've said we do expect to start to see a more rich benefit as the year unfolds.
But Jeff a little...
Yes.
George I like the way you described it as getting to a more normal run rate by the end of this fiscal year is a fair comment and consistent with what I've said previously.
That doesn't mean there won't be incremental benefits that well go for in FY '16 and '17 and beyond.
That definitely will be the case.
But again characterizing it as reaching a more normal run rate by the end of fiscal '15 I think is fair.
And we'll take our next question from Eric Percher from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Strategic priority commentary and I wanted to drill in a little bit on specialty where you talked about moving from $1 billion to $5 billion today.
I guess my first question is is the $5 billion really specialty distribution specialty pharmacy hub services outside of specialty flowing through the traditional wholesale business? And then could you talk a bit about where you focused and grown in those different components of the specialty business? Yes.
Thanks Eric.
It's -- this is George.
It's a little bit of all of the above.
First of all and again I'm just -- we're talking really about run rate.
It's been encouraging.
I think the good news about the way we've approached this -- we've had a pretty methodical approach to our specialty business and most of this is organic as you know.
I think we've seen each of the little subsegments of our specialty work whether that's our services to biopharma or distribution as pieces that we need to drive.
Obviously from a revenue standpoint distribution is always going to carry more weight.
But I think in general we're pretty encouraged by the progress.
And I think the addition of this patient hub for us while it's very early I think is really an interesting value driver as it relates to the work that we can do to provide to pharma companies and thinking about where they're going how they're trying to increase those touch points with patients in the system.
So I would say generally speaking we're pretty encouraged by what's happened through most of those sub-businesses and encouraged by the run rate much of it organic.
Let me just add to that.
We've always said that achieving success in specialty is going to be dependent on really 2 factors: number one getting to critical mass and size so that we're relevant to the manufacturers and to the docs and the payers.
I think now with a $5 billion run rate we can definitely say we're relevant and then we have a significant share now of the specialty market.
The second piece was as we gained relevance from a size standpoint to start wrapping services -- or continue to wrap services around that volume that we can profitize with the manufacturers et cetera.
And that has also happened as well and was accelerated clearly last January with the purchase of Sonexus which really helped to round out the toolkit that we have now that we can sell as services to the players in specialty.
So I do feel very good about the positioning we've achieved over the last couple of years.
Research Division</strong> So it's felt like some of your positioning was that you didn't need to have a massive footprint but enough to be relevant to manufacture.
So it sounds like you're feeling that you've reached that in Sonexus and the hub services will be the test case for your ability to have relevance.
And I guess the way I would throw a question on there is how do you think that your assets differentiate from others when manufacturers are deciding which hub to go with? So it's a great question Eric.
Here's what I'd say.
This is going to be a story of defining services that are very uniquely targeted to a biopharma company and the patient population that they are addressing.
And so I'd love to tell you that there's a broad answer to that.
It's really a sort of "you've seen one you've seen one" kind of answer.
We're very targeted.
We actually have a innovation center that is -- all they do is software solutions that address unique needs of some of our customer base.
This would be one of those customer bases.
So I don't know if I could do a comparative analysis for you rather than say our team is very targeted.
And we certainly have the presence in the market to allow us to do the things that we like to do and have those touch points.
So -- but very -- honestly very targeted very customer-centric practice-centric work.
We'll take our next question from Charles Rhyee from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> And congrats Jeff.
Good luck with everything going forward.
Thanks Charles.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a -- actually a question on Nuclear.
This quarter you talked pretty positively about it.
I believe a little -- you talked kind of positively about it last quarter.
Can you tell us the shape of this business at this point? If I recall years ago I mean this was something like maybe almost a $2 billion business with something like 20% EBIT margins.
Can you kind of give us a sense of the financial health of this? And one time you talked about how much you liked it.
How does it stand now in relation to some -- all the other priorities as you look forward? So Charles let me just start and then I'll turn it over to Jeff to give you color on the financial aspects of it.
But here's what I'd say.
The business had been through I think I described it really significant change over the couple of years.
Its really the market has gone through this significant change primarily around the utilization.
Our hope is that those changes have essentially worked their way through the system and those are beginning to stabilize.
That's good news for us.
The second element of -- so one is that while it's not -- you're not seeing a big increase.
What we've seen is some stabilizing.
The second element which is exciting is the development of new technologies.
And so I'd use Xofigo just as an example.
So we're not just now seeing radiotherapeutic but radiopharmaceuticals and I think there some opportunities there and we're excited about the potential.
But it's -- the market has been through a really major multiyear kind of reset.
Jeff do you want to give any more color on that? Yes.
As a reminder we wrote down a goodwill on this business over a year ago now really because the core business itself was not growing.
And in fact we're shrinking due to some of the issues we talked about previously.
I think one has given us some renewed optimism about the business -- really has been some of these new launches like the Xofigo launch that George referenced.
I'd say we're hopefully optimistic now about the Nuclear business and we see some particular product areas where there's potential to grow over time.
But I would not describe the Nuclear business as one of our more significant strategic growth drivers going forward.
It's good margin as long as we can continue to grow it.
With these new products it will be a good contributor to the bottom line and it is margin accretive.
But it probably won't be a business that you'll hear us talk a lot about going forward.
Unless of course some of these areas that George referenced begin to really really take off and hopefully they will and we'll let you know when that happens.
LLC Research Division</strong> And is this related to the biomarkers area? Is that where we should expect really the growth of this -- this start of the business turns around? Is that the spot you'd focus on? I think that may be an element of what we're describing.
But I also think -- if I were to describe the biggest change again assuming that the core market is not going to go through a massive change I think to me the biggest development is the potential commercialization of let's say 2 things.
One is if there's some real breakthroughs on the Alzheimer's side the diagnostic piece becomes much more exciting.
And the second is seeing some products that are actually not diagnostics but are actually therapies.
Those are the things that probably are most present in our mind.
And we'll take our next question from Robert Jones from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> And Jeff it's been a pleasure.
I wanted to shift over to Medical where revenue came in at the high end of your low- to mid-single digit range for the year.
Several med tech companies this quarter have been citing improved volumes.
Your largest competitor on the acute side talked about it one of the best environments they've seen in a while.
Can you maybe just talk about what you're seeing within the marketplace? I know you commented briefly on it in the prepared remarks.
But just curious from a volume standpoint demand standpoint how that market has been trending and probably more importantly how you're contemplating the progression of that market into your fiscal '15 guidance? Yes thanks.
I'll take this.
We've obviously heard a lot of commentary on different companies.
And actually we're hearing quite different things and I think there's a good reason for that.
I would say this.
Because of our really broad reach we have a relatively good line of sight on the system.
And so what we'd say from a system perspective utilization is somewhat flat to slight -- maybe slightly up although I would say it's early to describe that as a trend overall.
What's noteworthy and this is why you may be hearing different perspectives is that it's not one-size-fits-all.
We are seeing some systems and some hospitals showing disproportionate growth in relation to others.
And we're seeing some shift in channels so some utilization that was for example happening in the acute care centers moving to ambulatory centers.
And so you have this interesting dynamic which is an overall system number but some shifting on how and where it's done.
And so that partly explains I think [indiscernible] you might be hearing things.
We certainly believe over the long haul both through access to healthcare insurance and demographics we're going to see a lift.
I would say right now in the short term it's still relatively modest.
Yes I think that's the way I'd characterize it.
One other thing worth noting again which is as we look at for example the hospital system make sure we distinguish utilization from now compensation for what was uncompensated care so there's a number of moving parts.
And I would just encourage everybody to look at all the individual pieces.
Research Division</strong> No that's helpful.
And then I guess just a follow-up on inflation just given how important it is to the business.
I know you guys guided for moderation in generic inflation for fiscal '15.
But this quarter it sounds like you said inflation was consistent.
I'm just wondering have you started to see any signs of the actual moderation in the marketplace? And George even longer term obviously having sat on the other side of this equation how prolonged can this inflationary environment go in your view from a high level? I mean are we talking quarters are we talking multiyear? Any perspective there would actually be really helpful.
Yes.
Well that's a really -- there are 2 parts to the question and the last part is really hard to answer.
I just think historically we see cycles.
That's not unusual.
The question is how long those cycles last and they depend on a lot of different things.
They depend on how many companies are beginning to resolve technical issues which would allow them back in the market.
So I think it's -- but I wish I could give you a good answer on the prognostication on that cycle.
What I can say in the short term is it is pretty much Jeff would agree as we saw for example in the last...
Last quarter.
Last quarter.
But it was better than what we had originally modeled for Q1.
And that's the reason why we've changed our overall assessment for the year now looking at slight inflation versus a slight deflation that we had talked about back in August.
We'll take our next question from Ricky Goldwasser from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> And Jeff I know we'll miss you.
Enjoy your extra sleep time.
And Mike welcome.
Welcome to the role.
I'm looking forward to working with you more closely beyond just the once-a-year card [ph] at Dublin Day.
So I have 2 follow-up questions.
The first one is around specialty.
At $5 billion run rate based on our assumptions I think Cardinal now accounts for about 8% of the specialty market.
So can you help us better understand whether this is more concentrated around some specific drug therapies where you have higher share? And also as we think of new drug launches in kind of like in the coming years should we assume that you're now in a position to gain your fair share i.e.
that 8% across the different drug categories? Well let me -- I'll start.
First let me say this.
Again I would say I think we're well positioned.
We've got significant presence across the business.
I think there are always going to be individual products that are -- that have distinct service contracts.
That's probably true for our competitor as well.
I think we're positioned to participate in any part of this specialty area.
One thing that I probably should point out I didn't get a chance to -- or didn't in the last question related to this is that I do think that we've done a very good job.
And this may be a bit of a unique positioning for us of -- in a world again where there is a lot of issue around risk management of connecting the payer perspective with about pharma company and the patient.
And I think we've worked pretty carefully at that intersection and we've got some creative solutions.
But I would say in terms of our overall positioning we can compete broadly.
I'm not sure there is a single area where we would not play and certainly hope to take our fair share as the growth in the system continues.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 2 follow-up questions on the numbers.
So Jeff first of all just to clarify on your guidance regarding inflation do you now expect additional inflation for the remainder of your fiscal year? Or is the change to your view just based on the calculated inflation that you saw in the September quarter? It's a little of both Ricky.
Obviously what's happened already is -- it's happened.
So let's just take [ph] into the numbers.
And I think what happened in Q1 slightly changed our view for the rest of the year so it's a little of both.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the -- you had a very nice sequential improvement in distribution operating margins.
Can you just kind of like walk us through what contributed to that? I mean obviously Red Oak is probably part of it but you kind of like highlighted that Red Oak was relatively modest.
So is there anything else that we should be aware of? Yes.
I think your assessment of Red Oak being relatively modest is an accurate one.
It wasn't a big contributor to sequential margin expansion.
I really would point to the continued strong performance of our generic portfolio overall really independent of Red Oak.
We continue to grow our sales very very nicely.
And really all aspects of our generic program are really hitting on all cylinders which will make the addition of the Red Oak benefits even more exciting to see as we get towards the back half of this year.
I think the continued growth in specialty Nuclear China all higher-margin areas have improved our mix and that has driven sequential improvement.
And then on the Medical side obviously having Medical grow this quarter given there's a higher-margin part of the overall consolidated business improves our mix as well.
And I think the contribution from preferred products and services which as you know are our higher-margin elements within Medical also contributes as well.
So there's no one thing I'd point to.
It was really indeed the continued growth and success that a lot of our various strategic initiatives that we've been pushing for some time are continuing to drive a shift in product and customer mix that's very favorable to us.
And we will take our next question from Dave Francis from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'll add my congratulations and hope to see you on another trip down to Vanderbilt sometime soon.
Thanks Dave.
LLC Research Division</strong> As it relates -- if I can go back to George's question earlier on Red Oak and timing of the benefits there if I could ask a little bit differently George can you walk us a little bit through kind of the process for whether it's simple annual contracts being renegotiated? Or what is it in terms of the mechanics of getting the Red Oak piece up and running that allows you to so quickly recognize the benefits of that relationship moving them into the income statement? So again I'll try to give you some color without providing answers that would make us uncomfortable given our proprietary relationships with our suppliers.
We started working on this right away identifying the teams with a clear sense of what we wanted to do.
And so in a way it was just a discipline of putting the teams together identifying the right talent.
We've got tremendously capable people working in this and then the support of 2 companies from the back office perspective.
What we had to do was to really do a full analysis of the market every product line every supplier all their capacities what their pipelines look like.
And so the Red Oak team I think has done all of them.
But I would describe it as serious analytics work to identify what the opportunities were and how to work with each manufacturer.
And each of those relationships is very very distinct and so we work very hard at making sure that everybody feels like they're in the tent both big companies and small.
And the Red Oak teams have been having meetings really since early July with all those manufacturers.
And so the progress has been really gratifying.
I'm extremely proud of this team but Im impressed by what I've seen.
And they're working their tails off.
This is incredibly hard work.
As I've said I don't think anybody can ever appreciate how many moving parts there are how many products themselves how many manufacturers kind of multiple products.
And so I think just doing this work and doing the analytics to support a simple program was enormous.
It's hard to give more color than that but I...
LLC Research Division</strong> Well and I guess my question is kind of more to as you look at both your and CVS' contractual relationships with the manufacturers it sounds like the -- just structurally speaking things are on a relatively short calendar such that you are in a position as a combined purchasing entity to restructure those agreements and begin to recognize the benefits more quickly than we might've otherwise thought.
Is that fair to say? I think all of us are phasing out.
We get -- we all had obligations and commitments and existing product relationships.
So I think that is all flowing through.
And I think we can say that as we work through the year we'll look like one a sourcing entity and I think manufacturers will see that.
I do see us that way.
And yes I think we'll see the benefit as it unfolds during the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And as a quick follow-up if I may ask.
Appreciate the color relative to your expectations on Nexium in the fiscal year.
More broadly speaking as it relates to other generic launches going forward and understanding that Nexium has some specific circumstances surrounding it are you guys seeing anything differently from either an FDA perspective or a manufacturing perspective that might create a more drawn-out process relative to other larger products going through a generic launch process? Or is Nexium and perhaps some of the others out there that we've seen some delays where those are just one-off kind of situations.
Is there some there something more endemic there? I think they're largely one-off stories.
I think actually FDA has been talking about increasing their cycle times speeding up their cycle time so I'm not sure we're seeing an endemic situation at all.
These tend to be very unique issues that may or may not have legal issues or manufacturing issues but I think what we would say is these are largely one-off dynamics that we're describing.
And we will take our next question from David Larsen from Leerink Partners.
Research Division</strong> So excluding Walgreens the revenue growth I think of 13% year-over-year looks very good.
Can you maybe just touch on -- in the Pharma division we're hearing about some significant wins you're picking up.
What's going on in the market that's maybe new this year versus last year? And from a Pharma Distribution point of view what are you doing that's different than some of your competitors? Again always a little reluctant to do a lot of comparative analysis with our competitors in this call.
But here's what I'd say.
I think our group has a very clear sense of how we create value.
I think we become increasingly immersed in the needs of our customers and I think we demonstrate that in a very consistent way.
Again not a comment on anyone else I just think our team is doing an extremely good job of I think increasingly being recognized as a company who sort of gets it understands the dynamics of the system as they're exchanging.
And we seem to be feeling a good kind of momentum in the way that we are interacting with customers and the things that they seek from us.
So it's hard to describe more than that.
Other than that I think our work is -- it's really good.
I watched it very closely.
For example when I went to our RBC our retail business conference and I watched the kind of interaction that we're having with our customers the kind of service offerings that we have and their response to that.
Now I'd say generally it's quite positive.
Research Division</strong> So each client is unique.
Can you go the extra mile to basically meet each of those unique needs? Okay.
And then just one other question.
I think you said you aren't expecting any benefit from Nexium in fiscal '15.
I thought that that was going to originally launch in November of '14.
So to not have any benefit for the next 3 quarters that's a fairly conservative approach right? I'm not sure I'd consider it conservative.
I guess I would consider it a fairly realistic view from our standpoint of how that's going to play out.
Maybe well be wrong maybe it'll go earlier but again I'm not sure I'd necessarily characterize it as conservative.
Yes.
I mean again I would say just based on the data that we've received to date the original expectation we had which was late fall launch we've taken that out of our assumption.
And I think probably the more cautious assumption as Jeff said is appropriate.
And we'll take our next question from John Kreger from William Blair.
This is actually Robbie Fatta in for John today.
Going back to the physician preference items that were discussed at length earlier in the past you guys have quantified the percent of revenue and/or earnings that these items comprise.
Are you willing to quantify that today? Or perhaps what kind of growth rates you've been seeing of late? Yes.
I'll characterize it though not just physician preference items but all preferred products.
So in this latest quarter preferred products made up low 20s in terms of revenue and approaching 39% in terms of percent of gross profit of the Medical segment.
Great.
And secondly on utilization we talked a little bit about the medical utilization.
Have you seen any changes in script consumption this year? Yes.
I think again the data that we're seeing from certainly IMS and others is fairly favorable.
So yes that's probably a little bit of a different story on the drug side in terms of our overall utilization as compared to the procedural utilization we're seeing yes.
And we will go now to Steve Valiquette with UBS.
Research Division</strong> And Jeff congrats again on your retirement.
Now I know you already discussed generic inflation a bit at this point obviously.
But I guess as we analyze this it does seem now that generic inflation may be moving beyond just product supply shortage situations.
And it seems to be happening now in a wider basket of older products.
And in fact I think some observers now suggest that maybe generic inflation on a growing number of products on the list price is actually in response to the generic procurement JVs that are being formed in the supply channel as the manufacturers try to offset some of the greater volume discounts.
So I guess I'm just kind of curious to get your thoughts on those particulars within the overall generic inflation picture.
Okay.
Yes a fair question.
It's hard to know again the drivers for a generic inflation.
I think again you have to remind yourself that each product is a market its own market.
And so I think in general what we look at when we look at products is how many players are in a market.
We look at who they are and what their historical patterns are.
And that's I think the best you can do in analyzing it whether or not it's in relation to any consolidation of purchasing.
I'm not sure I would necessarily say that's the cause because we've been seeing this kind of inflation now for a relatively extended period.
So there are probably multiple factors in this.
And so we tried to analyze it the best we can but I would say multiple factors probably.
Research Division</strong> I mean does it feel like that was evolving maybe beyond just product supply shortage situations though? Is that kind of a safe [indiscernible]? Yes.
Well probably yes.
It probably is a little bit less debt-driven today than I might have said 1 year ago.
That's fair.
And we'll go now to Garen Sarafian with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> And Jeff again congrats on the retirement.
And Mike we all look forward to working with you.
There's one -- to just quickly ask on specialty to touch back on it.
As you -- so thank you for the additional visibility very much appreciate it.
So now that you've reached critical mass I'm just curious to get your view of what the specialty market growth rate as you define the basket at what rate it's growing.
And if you think the next few years that you guys can grow above or at that rate.
Just any sort of visibility would be helpful.
Yes.
I don't know if I can actually give you the exact market growth rate because it's defined so differently.
Clearly what we're seeing as it relates to the new product flow what's in Phase III trials we should expect a continued growth in products that we tend to call specialty products.
And we get started -- our program -- we get started very early.
In drug development we are looking at every product that's in process.
We work sort of in every one of the niches in specialty.
And so what I would say is we expect significant growth in the market.
I can't give you an exact number.
We feel pretty confident that we will be able to grow our business consistent with that market.
And again starting from a smaller base I think the growth rates could be a little bit more accelerated.
But we're feeling very good about our positioning and our ability to compete in any one of these areas as products start to flow through the FDA and into the market.
Research Division</strong> And do you think there are any more assets that you could consider through M&amp;A that for any reason didnt qualify a few years back? We've said this before.
I'm not -- we continue to look.
All of our strategic priorities are areas where we think we have an opportunity to really add value.
And so we're doing that obviously organically in terms of our own internal work and our internal investment.
But in every one of these areas we'll continue to look for opportunities externally that we think adds strategic value and where we can execute.
So we will not take our foot off the gas pedal at looking at those opportunities.
As you know they don't come up every day.
And so we'll pursue this dual strategy of driving organic growth building our capabilities using our increasing scale and looking for opportunities externally.
And we'll go now onto Glen Santangelo from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> George just wanted to ask about the Medical segment.
I think this is an area that has been a focus for you since you became CEO.
And it feels like the company's been constantly investing in this area.
And I would say I think it's fair to say that the profit margins in the segment are probably not where you'd like them.
And if we go back to Analyst Day you laid out some pretty aggressive assumptions over the next several years in terms of the profit margins in that segment.
So maybe could you opine on kind of where you think we are at this point and what you see as the keys to success to be able to improve the profit margins in that division? Yes.
So generally as Jeff mentioned earlier the profit margins in that segment tend to be higher than the profit margins in our Pharma segment.
So a it is accretive to the work in our Medical business is accretive to our margin rate.
Number two we have been seeing some really encouraging work that's affecting our margins and it really has to do with the mix of products and services that we provide and that is a huge range of products and services.
The areas that we are prioritizing tend to be areas that are actually accretive to our margin rate and we'll continue to drive those.
So we've talked about the consumables area.
That's -- those are positive to us.
Our growth in the direct-to-patient work that we're doing through Cardinal at Home that is beneficial to our margin rate.
Honestly it's a midterm driver that we've talked about in terms of preferred products or physician preference items that is accretive to our margin rates.
So what I would say is these are all for us priorities because they're really needed they address real pain points in the system but they're also beneficial to us in terms of our overall mix and profit.
So I'm pretty excited about the work that we're doing and the recent moves we've made particularly to build that foundation and the physician preference items is probably a good news story.
I don't know if Jeff wants to add.
Yes.
I mean the goal we gave in Investor Day last December was to achieve a 5.75% operating margin or segment profit margin in Medical in FY '17.
And I would say we've taken the steps to remain on track to achieve that.
It's not going to be one smooth ride right? It's going to be quarters where we need to invest to accelerate certain areas.
And there will always be certain parts of the business that may have a blip.
In this particular quarter again that was probably our blip from an operating perspective given the marketing -- or the market conditions there.
But the general trajectory we're on remains on target for the 5.75% that we set for ourself.
Okay.
And maybe if I can just follow up with one question on the Pharmaceutical segment.
Jeff I jumped on the call late but I thought I heard you say within your prepared remarks that that segment benefited from a resolution of some long-standing customer issues of about $20 million.
Was that a one-time event in this quarter? And could you maybe give a little bit more color and clarity what that was about? Yes.
I would describe it as -- well first of all we're always resolving customer issues right that's between us and our customers disputes et cetera that need to be resolved over time.
This particular one in Q1 was relatively large approximately $20 million so I'd describe it is one-time-ish given the size of it.
And all I'll say about it is for some time now we've had certain issues that ultimately got resolved in the quarter.
And as a result of that we were able to pull it through to the bottom line.
And we will take our final question today from David Toung from Argus Research.
My question is about the physician preference items.
And I think Jeff and George you talked about investing in it and you're expecting some better contribution in the back half of the year.
Can you just talk a little bit more about these investments and sort of what is it? Is it on the clinical side or is it on the marketing side? And also if you could just address sort of the customer uptake of these physician preference items or -- I'm not sure.
Is it preference items or is it medical devices? So let me do a little defining.
These physician preference items are medical devices so it's just a subset of medical devices David.
So largely the investment is in a couple of areas: building out the infrastructure and sales force make sure that we can do what we need to do to get the products in and out of the system.
We had some development costs.
These are not what I would call research costs in the classic sense.
These are more sort of development making sure that the product line is positioned the way we want.
And so for example just expanding that emerged product line requires some costs.
We've got launch activities associated with some of these wound management products.
So I think we're a little bit in that stage but we're pretty excited about the flow of products.
And I would say the customer response is very positive right now.
And as Jeff said we're looking towards the back half with some greater sense of enthusiasm about the flow.
Sure that's great.
Yes did you have more to say? I'm sorry? Did you have more? Yes.
Just one piece I would add.
Since the AccessClosure acquisition has occurred I would say that the uptake on the product line coming out of AccessClosure has actually been very positive.
So again it's early on negative pressure wound ortho is just building but I would say on that cardio it's already beginning to show some good results.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I'd like to hand the conference over to George Barrett for any additional or closing remarks.
Well listen thanks everyone for joining us in what I know is a really busy day for all of you and it's a bit of a long call.
So thanks again for your time and we'll see you all very soon.
Thanks.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference and we do thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Cardinal Health Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Sally Curley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Lisa and welcome to today's second quarter fiscal 2015 earnings call.
Today we'll be making forward-looking statements.
The matters addressed in these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to our SEC filings and the Forward-looking statement slide at the beginning of the presentation found on the Investor page of our Web site for a description of those risks and uncertainties.
In addition we'll reference non-GAAP financial measures.
Information about the measures is included at the end of the slides.
I'd also like to remind you of a few upcoming investment conferences and events.
We'll be webcasting our presentation at the Leerink Partners Global Healthcare Conference on February 12 at 08:30 AM local time in New York the RBC Capital Markets 2015 Global Healthcare Conference on February 24th at 08:00 AM local time in New York; the Cowen and Company's 35th Annual Healthcare Conference on March 30th 08:00 AM local time in Boston and the Barclays Global Healthcare Conference on March 10th at 08:30 AM local time in Miami.
Today's press release and details for any webcasted events are or will be posted on the IR section of our Web site at cardinalhealth.com.
So please make sure to visit this site often for any updated information and we hope to see many of you in an upcoming event.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO George Barrett.
George? Thanks Sally.
Good morning everyone and thanks to all of you for joining us on our second quarter call.
I am pleased to report a very strong second quarter bringing to completion an excellent first half of fiscal 2015.
I'd like to take a moment to welcome Mike Kaufmann to his first quarterly earnings call as the CFO of Cardinal Health.
Mike and Jack have worked closely during the transition and I appreciate their collaboration.
Mike brings tremendous operating experience to our financial team and has adjusted quickly to his new role.
Total revenues for the second quarter were $25.5 billion an increase of 15% versus last year second quarter.
We were pleased to see sales growth from both existing and new customers.
Our second quarter non-GAAP diluted EPS was $1.20 up 33% from last year's $0.90.
Remember that our same quarter last year included a $0.16 expense related to a tax item.
When we adjust for tax item our second quarter FY15 non-GAAP diluted EPS increased by a robust 13%.
At the same time we returned $438 million to our shareholders through a combination of stock repurchases and dividends during the second quarter bringing the total amount returned to our shareholders for the first half of the fiscal year to over $900 million.
Based on our results for the first half of fiscal 2015 and our perspective on the back half of the year we are now raising our guidance to a full year EPS range of $4.28 to $4.38.
As I typically do I'll provide some color on the segments but before I do that I'd to offer a slightly different perspective on being Cardinal Health.
Our health system is going through significant changes not the least of which is a continued blurring of the lines between healthcare players and channels.
Our approach to addressing the market has been aligned to this trend bringing the full range of Cardinal Health capabilities in a holistic framework to address the needs of these increasingly integrated customers.
With this as a backdrop I'll speak about the segments but please recognize that in many instances we are going to the market not as a Pharmaceutical segment not as a Medical segment but as Cardinal Health an integrated source of strategic solutions and the creation of our strategic account teams will only expand this enterprise wide effort.
Now to the segments first our Pharmaceutical segment.
Second quarter Pharmaceutical segment revenue was very strong.
Sales for the quarter were $22.6 billion an increase of 16% over the prior year showing positive signs in nearly all of our business lines and in all classes of trade.
Our organization has been unwavering in its commitment to ensure that our customers see us not only as extraordinarily reliable but also able to help them adapt to the changes in the system.
A couple of notes here on revenues.
On a year-over-year basis we were pleased to pick up some new business crossing all classes of trade but including one larger mail order customer which as you know historically contributes to our margin rates.
And as many of you know the treatment of hepatitis C has evolved into a major therapeutic class and one which has changed dramatically over this past year.
The distribution of these products contributed meaningfully to our revenue growth but has a dilutive effect on our margin rates.
The overall performance of our generic programs remains strong and Red Oak Sourcing our venture with CVS Health is clearly an important strategic initiative for us.
We are increasingly excited about this partnership and are very pleased about the way our collective talent has fully integrated as one team.
They've been working hard to make sure that our supplier partners feel that they are part of something that creates value for all stakeholders.
We feel confident that the Red Oak model was designed thoughtfully and built to prioritize execution and simplicity and I can report at this stage were tracking somewhat ahead of our plan to transition manufacturers to the Red Oak program.
Of course sourcing product is only half the story.
We have seen continued growth in our base of customers and increasing number of home source generics from us and our range of products and services continues to attract pharmacy customers.
Our specialty solutions organization continues its track record of excellent revenue growth.
You will remember from our last earnings call that we expect sales for this unit to attract $5 billion for the year and we are increasingly confident that we will exceed that number for our fiscal year.
We continue to look for opportunities to expand or reach to a broader range of therapeutic areas.
We have positioned our specialty business at the nexus of biopharma payer provider and patient.
Were committed to keeping the patient at the center of our strategy and our enhanced patient access and support reinforces that focus.
Upstream we continue to look to look for opportunities to broaden our pharmaceutical and biotech relationships and to expand the tools we offer these partners who serve unique patient population.
So next one Medical segment.
We reported revenues for the quarter of $2.9 billion an increase of 4% versus prior year.
Our Medical segments top-line was driven by recent acquisitions and growth in existing customers.
Our profits were affected by continued challenges in Canada and the year-over-year customer loss in surgical kitting referred to in our calls.
One important financial note our Medical segment profits were significantly impacted this quarter by increased incentive compensation a byproduct of raising our enterprise wide forecast and the Company expenses to the segment.
Having said this our strategic initiatives in the Medical segment continue to send positive signals each of which is critical to our overall positioning.
Weve spoken consistently about the movement of care migrating into more ambulatory settings.
Our collaboration with Henry Schein addresses an important link in the chain as we serve highly integrated health systems whose networks now include many smaller physician practices as well as independent practices.
Combining Henry Scheins logistics and service capabilities with Cardinal Health's strength in other channels will enable us to serve these customers more efficiently while increasing the flow of Cardinal Health products into these new channels.
The partnership is off to a good start.
Meetings with our two sale organizations have gone well and they're working hard on the implementation of the integrated selling effort.
Weve made our first customer presentations as a combined selling organization and here at Cardinal Health weve seen our first orders for products destined for these new channels.
Consistent with our perspective that care will increasingly be delivered in different settings we continue to be really excited about our work in the home.
Cardinal Health at Home continues to deliver good growth.
Our direct-to-patient business Edgepark continues to grow at double-digit rates.
Weve have been introducing Cardinal Health branded products into this channel.
Specifically we would expect that by the end of fiscal 2015 to have launched over 100 new products through this platform primarily in the areas of wound care and in continents.
Our strategy around private label consumables and physician preference items is aligned to address an important need in the system tackling the inefficiency associated with the proliferation of products and need for standardization.
Building scale reducing variability improving outcomes while reducing cost this is at the heart of our strategy.
Specifically in the trauma area weve made tremendous progress in building out our product-line helped by the acquisition of Emerge Medical.
We expect to be able to offer a reasonably full line of trauma products by early next year.
At the same time we have trained over 200 residents on orthopedic trauma using the Cardinal Health trauma products.
In wound management we've made a strong commitment to negative pressure wound therapy and we're in the process of launching 25 SKUs in this area.
As is true with all of our products the introduction of a wound care portfolio leverages our channel reach to create an integrated wound care solution that stretches across the continuum of care.
Finally at interventional cardiology our AccessClosure acquisition is going extremely well.
Some recent new sales on closure devices in our strategic account is an encouraging sign as it relates to the power of combining AccessClosure's product line and the breadth of our customer relationships.
Further on the technical side our MynxGrip is now the only closure device in the U.S.
indicated for venous closure.
Finally China continues to execute well against our plan with very robust double-digit sales growth.
As you know our development in China has been thoughtful and purposeful built on a foundation of service integrity and compliance as a key differentiator.
Our balance sheet remains strong and we will not be shy about deploying capital to achieve best sustainable competitive positions in strategically important areas.
Having said this we will continue to be both focused and disciplined in our deployment of capital using partnerships to strengthen our position where that's more efficient Red Oak and Henry Schein being two recent examples.
Let me conclude my comments by offering this perspective.
This remains an exciting time to be in healthcare and our organization is aligned with the important trends which are shaping our new landscape.
But we're also an organization committed to disciplined execution in a business that demands great attention to detail.
Over the past 18 months our pharmaceutical segment has come to a critical transition repositioning its customer base and dramatically improving its tools and has emerged stronger than ever.
Our medical segment is going through its own transition moving from an organization focused on med/surge distribution to an organization which creates value in new ways for customers with new needs.
It is also a segment which contains many important mid and long-term drivers of growth.
In summary it seems clear that growth will be driven by demographics by more Americans having health coverage in some form that care will continued to be delivered in new settings and at times by different care givers.
Consumers will be more actively involved in their own care.
Pharmaceutical innovation will continue to create treatments and in some cases cures for life's most threatening diseases.
Those who bring tools help manage the quality and the cost of care will be winners and the efficiency created by scale will be valuable.
We bring these things and we are increasingly aware that we have a unique position in the marketplace.
It's difficult to find another Company with this kind of reach across the system and we are committed to bringing an increasingly integrated marketplace solutions across traditional lines.
This is central to our competitive advantage.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Mike.
Thanks George and good morning everyone.
Before we get into the earnings discussion I just want to say that it has been an exciting few months for me since becoming CFO.
I've enjoyed not only leading the Cardinal Health finance team but also meeting with many of you our investors and analysts.
For those of you I have not met I look forward to speaking with you soon.
Now on to the quarter.
As George mentioned we are happy to report strong financial performance this quarter and to be raising our non-GAAP EPS guidance.
I will first walk through the drivers for the quarter's financial performance and then provide some insight into our expectations for the remainder of the fiscal year.
You can refer to the slide presentation posted on our Web site as a guide to this discussion.
I will start by talking about consolidated results and then go into more detail in my segment discussions.
Non-GAAP EPS for the quarter was $1.20 an increase of 33% versus the prior year.
As a reminder the prior year quarter includes a $0.16 charge related to a tax item.
Eliminating this item non-GAAP EPS grew 13% year-over-year.
Again this quarter revenues exceeded our expectations up 15% to $25.5 billion.
Total company gross margin dollars were up 8% for the quarter but the rate was compressed a bit largely because of Hepatitis C therapies launched within the last year and some shift in the margin rates related to the recent expansion of our customer base.
Total SG&amp;A increased 6% versus the prior year primarily driven by the impact of acquisitions.
Consolidated non-GAAP operating earnings were up over 10% to $639 million or a non-GAAP operating margin rate of 2.5%.
In the quarter net interest and other expense was $7 million higher due in large part to the timing of various components of the long-term debt refinancing we completed during the quarter.
On tax as we have said in the past our non-GAAP effective tax rate can fluctuate quarterly due to changes in international and U.S.
state effective tax rate resulting from our business mix and discreet items.
This is why we only provide annual tax rate guidance.
You will notice that for the first-half of this fiscal year our non-GAAP tax rate was 35%.
We still expect our full year tax rate to be 36% to 37% which implies a higher tax rate in the second half of this fiscal year.
Our second quarter diluted weighted average shares outstanding were $334 million 12 million shares favorable to the prior years quarter.
During Q2 we repurchased $324 million worth of shares leaving about $1 billion of share purchase authorization remaining under our Board approval.
To complete my review of the consolidated numbers let's move to the consolidated cash flows in the balance sheet.
We generated a robust $953 million in operating cash flow in the quarter.
As a reminder operating cash flow was Q1 was light which was largely just a function of timing and we expected some shift between quarters.
At the end of the second quarter we had cash on our balance sheet of $2.9 billion which includes $448 million held internationally.
Our balance sheet allows us the flexibility to deploy capital in the most efficient way to return value to shareholders and to drive sustainable growth.
Speaking of capital deployment as Pharmaceutical segment CEO I was part of our capital committee and actively involved in all major deployment decisions.
You should expect that our strategies around capital deployment will remain intact.
Now let me take a moment to reiterate these priorities.
First we are committed to investing in activities that reinforce the sustained strength of our core businesses.
Next we remain committed to our differentiated dividend that we expect to grow at least in line with our long-term non-GAAP earnings growth rate.
Third we will not be hesitant to deploy capital for acquisitions which further strengthen our businesses and best position us for leadership in this evolving environment.
Weve thought pretty consistently about our strategic priorities and these will of course be the areas where we will devote the most attention as we consider inorganic moves.
And as weve done in the past we will continue to consider share repurchases.
This fiscal year we have repurchased $684 million worth of shares.
Now let's move to segment performance starting with pharma.
Pharmaceutical segment revenue increased 16% to $22.6 billion driven by growth in our base of existing customers as well as the impact of new customers.
Pharma segment profit increased 12% to $542 million due to strong performance under generic programs which includes the net benefit of Red Oak Sourcing.
Also our profit was positively impacted by continued growth from existing customers as well as growth from new customers.
The Pharmaceutical segment profit margin rate decreased 9 basis points impacted by customer pricing changes newly launch hepatitis C pharmaceutical products and the impact of new customers.
These were partially offset by strong performance from generic programs which again include the net benefit of Red Oak Sourcing.
The branded hepatitis C therapies launched within the last year have been a topic of great interest in healthcare.
Just to be clear for Cardinal Health these sales contribute to top-line growth but the overall impact is dilutive to margin rates.
Additionally as a reminder these products are recorded within the pharmaceutical distribution results not our Specialty sales.
With respect to our generic programs we saw strong unit growth this quarter.
Also as projected Red Oak Sourcing was accretive in the quarter net of the $25.6 million payment we made to CVS Health.
As a Board member of Red Oak I continue to be impressed with the efficiency and speed at which the Red Oak team has executed.
They have now transitioned suppliers representing greater than 95% of the total generic spend.
For the quarter as it relates to the impact of generic manufacturer price increases we did see a slight year-over-year decrease in contribution.
Now let's go to the Medical segment performance.
Revenue for the Medical segment increased 4% to $2.9 billion driven by acquisitions and growth from existing customers.
Medical segment profit decreased 12% to $115 million with the largest negative driver being a year-over-year increase in enterprise wide incentive compensation as well as the continued impact of market pressures in Canada and the related repositioning of that business.
These factors also drove the Medical segment profit margin rate this quarter which decreased by 73 basis points.
Since the performance our Canadian unit has been a challenge over the last nine months let me take a moment to discuss it.
I recently met with the Canadian team and left impressed with the new team members the optimism of the entire team their pipeline and their strategic plan which includes accelerated movement of Cardinal Health branded products.
We should see some recovery in that business starting later this calendar year.
While there have been challenges in certain discreet areas the medical segment continues to execute against the strategic priorities.
For example within our strategic hospital accounts we continued to achieve organic growth of more than 5% versus the prior year quarter.
This remains a key area of focus as we demonstrate to the large integrated health systems that we create enterprise solutions to address the challenges they face.
Now I'd like to give you my observations on our Medical segment not only from my new CFO seat but also from my experience as CEO of the Pharmaceutical segment and President of the Medical business some seven years ago.
As George mentioned medical has been going through a critical transition.
I'm particularly aware of this as I compare our profit drivers today to what they were seven years ago.
Over this time the profit pools have shifted and under Don's leadership the team has adapted and made tough decisions to invest in certain key priorities while reducing emphasis and investment in others.
Our medical team has built new capabilities and made the moves necessary to reposition the segment to create more value per customers and partners and to participate in new profit pools going forward.
Before we move on I'd like to briefly tough on what we are seeing around commodities as this has been top of mind for many of you.
For FY15 as we previously said due to the time lag within our supply chain we only expect to see very slight benefit and that is included in our updated guidance range.
Now while it is very early I just want to give you my preliminary observations regarding FY16.
We're continually updating our commodities forecast including analyzing them based on forward curves.
Our most recent analysis indicates there will be a modest benefit of $10 million to $20 million in fiscal '16.
For those of you who remember commodities being a large headwind some years ago this may seem low.
While there are several factors causing this let me touch on two of them.
First over the past few years the prices of inputs to our Cardinal Health brand products no longer move in tandem with crude oil prices.
Second since we experienced significant commodity exposures in the past we have worked to temper these through strategic and operational measures we have taken with our suppliers.
Any updated estimates would be included in the FY16 guidance that we typically provide on our Q4 call.
Now turning to Slide No.
6 you will see our reconciliation of consolidated GAAP results to non-GAAP for the quarter.
The $0.34 variance to non-GAAP results was primarily driven by litigation expenses amortization and other acquisition related costs and loss on extinguishment of debt.
You will see on the schedule that the net of tax impact of the debt redemption resulted in a $37 million GAAP expense.
Let me begin to wrap up with a brief discussion on the remainder of FY15.
Based on our strong first half performance and helped a bit by the lower tax rate in Q2 we are increasing and tightening our overall FY15 non-GAAP EPS guidance range to $4.28 to $4.38 from the prior range of $4.10 to $4.30.
A few comments about the new guidance range what we've realized today and what we are assuming.
Based on the overall revenue growth fiscal year to date we are updating our total company revenue guidance from up modestly compared to FY14 to now expecting the full year revenue growth to be in the high single-digits.
As for each segment we continue to expect our Medical segment revenue growth to be as originally provided low to mid single-digit growth versus FY14.
And following two quarters of strong growth we now expect the full year Pharma segment revenue growth will be in the high single to low double-digit range compared to the prior year.
With respect to Red Oak as George mentioned the transition of the manufacturers to the Red Oak program have been a little faster than our previously discussed expectation.
It is too early to comment on the timing sequencing or impact around the possible Nexium launch and so we have not included this in our updated guidance.
There are multiple variables that are still up in the air including legal maneuvers the timing of launches capacity and the number of other companies who could potentially launch.
When the facts become clearer we will evaluate its impact on our new guidance.
Also it is worth mentioning that our assumptions around branded and generic inflation have not changed.
We still expect branded inflation to be about the same as fiscal 14 in the low double-digits and across our generic portfolio while we still expect slight inflation we have modeled the overall benefits to moderate in our second half versus what we experienced in the first-half.
Our guidance range also assumes that our head wind weve experienced in Canada year-to-date will carry through the remainder of the fiscal year.
Looking at our corporate assumptions our full year non-GAAP tax rate guidance of 36% to 37% remains unchanged which as I mentioned previously implies a higher tax rate during the second half of this fiscal year.
We are slightly reducing our interest at other range to $135 million to $145 million.
We are also lowering our diluted weighted average shares outstanding range to 336 million to 337 million shares.
We are modifying our capital expenditure guidance to $340 million to $350 million and finally our amortization slightly increased based on the few previously mentioned small acquisitions weve completed in the first-half of the fiscal year.
In summary we are really pleased with the progress we have made in the first-half of fiscal 15 and expect similar execution in the back half of the year.
So with one quarter under my belt as the new CFO I look forward to sharing our progress with you in the coming weeks and months.
Operator let's begin our Q&amp;A.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Bob Jones with Goldman Sachs.
I seem to have couple of on Medical trying to calibrate things here.
I know you guys had mentioned incentive comp as a headwind in the quarter.
Could you maybe just give us a sense of what the margin in Medical would have been of you adjust for incentive comp year-over-year? This is Mike and thanks for the question.
Really cant go into details of what it would be adjusted but I will give you a little color in that the majority of the comp that you saw pushed out into the Medical segment was in the area of 401(k) and thats because thats based on employees and as you know a significant portion of our employees are in the Medical segment.
That's helpful.
I guess just one big question around that then is as we think about where we are today in Medical on the margins and moving towards at some point that long-term goal of 5.75% just wondering if you can maybe help us think about the path to get there? And then if I could just sneak in one specific one Mike on the commodities.
I believe you said it was a tail wind of $10 million to $20 million for next year.
If I go back and look at your 10-K filing it looks like the impact from a 10% move and the example you gave in your slides would have resulted in about a 30 million impact.
I'm wondering if there was some changing [ph] in hedging between June and today.
Yes thanks for those questions.
Ill talk about the commodities first and then I can go back to giving you a little bit more color on medical margins or George can do that.
And as far as the commodities go remember a couple of different things.
First of all as I said which is really most important what weve seen over the last couple of years is all of the components of our -- of the items that make up commodities for us they do not really track in tandem with crude oil prices anymore.
While historically several years ago you would see that for the most part you dont see that any more.
So thats a really big driver for us as we track both current and future rates on commodities.
Also -- you also know that when we did have those significant issues in the past as you could imagine we took a look at our contracts with our manufacturers and really focused on trying to rework those contracts and relationships with the manufacturers so that we would not see these types of ups or downs going forward in the future.
And so thats really whats probably tempering your estimates of the numbers.
And Bob if I can -- its George -- maybe just touch base a little bit on the drivers as it relates to the goal of expanding margins in Medical.
Let me just carve them out.
Key growth areas will be the services around our distribution platform.
So the traditional supply chain activities are now a much broader range of services that were beginning to offer.
Those typically carry higher margin.
Growth in our consumables particularly our private label consumables our physician preference items I talked about wound management I talk about interventional cardiology I talk about trauma.
Growth in these are higher margins.
Growth in the Home is important to us.
Again this is an area where weve seen excellent growth and expansion of margins.
So the overall positioning of these activities really drives mix.
Again I think remember for example private label products now being driven in through our home strategy.
So these are all expansive to margins.
And then finally positioning with the key accounts in the system.
So it's really -- a large component of that is both mix of product line and in some degree mix of customers.
We'll take our next question from Charles Rhyee with Cowen and Company.
Maybe if I can follow up on Bob's question and maybe ask in a little different way.
If we were to exclude the Canadian business out of the Medical segment can you kind of give us sense on how that is performing over the last couple of quarters? Margin improvement and -- as you have been pushing out preferred products and the physician preference items? Yes I can appreciate the question but I really don't want to go into that level of detail on it.
Again there are a couple of discrete items that we mentioned.
It's really the Canadian business that is a big factor and a pushdown of compensation are really driving the Medical segment year-over-year negative performance.
Then maybe on the Canadian side you talked about meeting with the team and you said you like the strategy they're kind of playing out to you.
Can you maybe give us a little bit more details on how you guys are planning to tackle some of the issues here? I know you talked about more Cardinal branded products.
But what is specifically there that we can hope to kind of get around some of the issues? Yes.
Thanks for that question.
I did get a chance to actually go up there and spend some time with the team and I've had some involvement over the years with them.
I think a couple of things on their mind.
First of all as I mentioned focusing on shifting where possible our Cardinal branded products that's a big important piece.
One other thing to remember is we are really the only distributor up there in the med/surge area that has reach of the entire -- of all of Canada.
And so I think the team has done some really good things around leveraging our supply chain to be able to work with manufacturers to drive more opportunities up there.
They're also as you can imagine looking aggressively at their cost structure and they're doing things with their management team and I've really liked where they have been able to bring some new blood into some really talented folks that are looking at the business differently.
In fact I know our new CFO up there really came from one of our customers up there and really understands the business and is going to bring some new ideas to the table.
This is George.
I might just want to add something to sort of back to where you started.
We're not going to start to break out and pull out the pieces of the [indiscernible] business on medical but I would probably offer this.
When we look at our all of our strategic priorities and we're doing pretty consistent metrics around our medical business we actually see some very good signs and it's actually been an operating according to our internal forecast.
So our growth is strategic accounts is good consumables growth is good.
The physician preference item strategy as we've told you is sort of a more mid-term driver of the business but we actually like some of the underlying characteristics that we've seeing.
We have seen over the years that traditional med/surge distribution has seen some pricing pressure over the years.
But that's something that we anticipate and expect and we like the growth that we're seeing in the home.
So when we look at the components that are making up this segment we really like the way the pieces are going.
Again we're going to have to absorb the changes that we saw in this Canadian mark and I think we'll also lap this -- part of it with the market change that we had to deal with.
And we'll take our next question from Glen Santangelo with Credit Suisse.
George I just want to follow up on some of the commentary around generic price inflation.
I think you seemed to suggest that maybe you saw slightly better inflation on generics sort of year-over-year.
But I think you're moderating your assumptions in the second half of the fiscal year versus the first half.
Are you kind of implying that maybe some of that was pulled forward? Could you maybe just flesh out a little bit more what you're seeing in the marketplace and how we should think about the trends? Glenn let me start and then I'll be happy to have Mike chime in and he's obviously been very close to it from his prior role.
When we talk about moderating for the back half of the year it's largely just a model at this point.
We don't have perfect transparency on pricing.
We have historical models.
We do the best we can to use those to guide us going forward.
We have in the interactions with the suppliers.
But there is not something absolutely discrete perfect trend line that tells us what to do.
We just thought the numbers in the first half were reasonably strong.
And so what we did was we just moderated that somewhat in the second half and that's the way to approached.
But it's difficult to come to us a perfect number on this.
Yes.
I can just add a little bit of color.
So as I did mention for the quarter as it relates to generic inflation this quarter was slightly less than last year's quarter as there was a year-over-year decrease in the contribution.
As far as Q1 versus Q2 Q1 was a little stronger than Q2 in terms of rate.
And you were right you did hear me right.
We do expect the second half of the year total generic inflation contribution to our bottom line will be moderated compared to the first half of the fiscal year.
Maybe if I could just follow up on capital deployment.
George you said all along that your preference is clearly to do strategic M&amp;A versus share repurchase but here we are halfway through the fiscal year and youve kind of already blown through your share repurchase target.
Should we sort of read into that that maybe you dont see anything on the strategic M&amp;A front that interests you or maybe if you can just give us an update there on how we should think about capital deployment through the balance of the fiscal year given where the leverage sits on the balance sheet? Thanks Glen.
No I dont think you should read and anything into it actually.
We are always looking at the most efficient way to create a great position for strategic growth.
And there are moments where those opportunities are right in front of you and there are moments where they are not but I dont think I would read into it.
Weve done a small -- a couple of small moves in the physician preference item area over the last year -- last few months.
And were always actively looking.
It's just a matter of finding that opportunity you think drives the value you want and you have to have someone there decide really to do it at that moment.
But I dont think I would read anything into it.
Well continue to opportunistic where it makes sense on the share repo but I guess -- maybe the only other thing you could read into is that were being disciplined and were going to make sure we pick the things that match to our strategic priorities and are at the right price.
Our next question comes from George Hill with Deutsche Bank.
Maybe Mike quickly on generic inflation when you talk about the decreasing impact year-over-year should we think about the decreasing impact as lower sell side margin contribution on higher generic drug prices or should we think about kind of lower carry on inventory that inflates? What's the right way to think about the contribution there? I really dont think I can go into a lot of detail on that.
Let's see if I can help a little bit.
As you know there are different ways you can make money on generics.
There is obviously the difference between what you sell it at and what you buy at.
So were always focused on that.
And then obviously there is the appreciation on inventory when you have -- do have price increases.
So there are a lot of different components including how you price penetrating current customers et cetera that improve our programs and drive margin.
So to be specific how any one single margin bucket works would be difficult.
And obviously our manufacturer contracts and discussions are incredibly confidential and competitive.
I guess some -- I want to make sure I understood the question George.
I dont think there is anything mechanical that were highlighting here.
It's just the overall pricing environment.
So I dont think that we can -- if thats a question it's a not a unique mechanical dynamic.
I think Mike's just describing the overall pricing trend.
Thats helpful.
And then maybe just kind of a quick follow-up on the Medical segment again.
Just -- I dont know -- I'm wondering is there any more color you can give us on kind of what would drive the rapid increase in the 401(k) contributions in that segment of the business compared to other segments? So the best way to think about it is is the way we look at compensation.
We look at it is all of Cardinal.
And so when there is overall performance from the business then one of the biggest pieces that get funded first is our 401(k) program.
And we dont distinguish between our employees on whether they're in the M or the P segment when overall cardinal health is performing.
And so since we had a strong first-half it caused us per our internal guidelines to increase our accruals on our 401(k) and knowing that a significant portion of our employees are in the Medical segment then those costs just get allocated to the Medical segment for the employees and their 401(k) contribution.
Our next question comes from David Larsen with Leerink.
Hey can you guys talk a little bit more about the operating margin in the Pharma division.
So I think you called out a couple of things; pricing new customers and Hep C.
So margin I think decline by about 8 basis points year-over-year.
Can you just give any more color on sort of what the -- like the size -- the buckets for each of those items that you called out and which ones have greatest impact? I did get into a kind of detail but clearly those were the two largest -- over 9 basis points of decline in margin rate and the two biggest drivers were just some new customers that we mentioned.
As George mentioned we had one large mail order customer that tends to come in at lower margin rates.
And then as I think youve seen from a lot of folks in the industry the hepatitis C drugs have been doing very well.
This is really important drug class and we too have seen significant sales of those drugs in our business.
And because they come in at much lower margin rates than typical our average they are lowering our overall margin rate.
So you obviously saw a good growth year-over-year in terms of dollars I think up 12% year-over-year.
So the mail order customer such a new customer that came in at lower margins as a percentage of revenue? Is that correct? It wasnt a shift just to mail? And then obviously the Hep C is new revenue at a lower margin rate right? Is that correct? Thats right.
It's a new customer that again being newer [ph] is mostly brand business and so it comes in at lower margin rate.
Our next question comes from Ross Muken with Evercore ISI.
This is Elizabeth Anderson in for Ross.
I had a question about the Hep C -- the Hep C product as a percentage of your total sales.
Could you provide a little bit more color on that? Sure our Hep C drugs as a percentage of our total Pharma segment revenues is less than 25%.
Okay.
And in addition I was just wondering if you could give some additional color on the early wins and challenges from Red Oak? I know you said that you have sort of 90% of first 5% of contracts.
But I was just wondering if there are any more specifics you could give us on that? Sure let me just make sure on that first one.
Just to make sure I got it right.
It's less than 25% of our growth not less than 25% of our volume of drug spend.
So just to be clear the Hep C drugs were less than 25% of our overall growth for the quarter.
And then as far as Red Oak goes I guess all I can add to it is I just continue to be impressed with the team.
The leaders there the executive team has done an excellent job of really blending together the employee bases.
You could go there and I think George has mentioned this the past [indiscernible] is some situation you really can't tell who CVS or a Cardinal employee was who came from the outside? And when I was at our Board meeting just recently a lot of the executive management said the same thing that they're having to remind themselves some of new people who came from where.
So I think from a culture standpoint that's really important.
And then also -- that's been really exiting is we were able to get all the people we wanted to transfer to go there.
So all the key folks from CVS moved over there as well as the key folks from Cardinal.
And that really helped us get a really quick start because we weren't training anybody.
We had literally experts who have had decades and decades of experience in the generic business move straight over to Red Oak.
So that's been positive.
So again culture is going well discussions with the manufacturers have gone well and as I said we're at above 95% of the manufacturers moved over.
So let me ask George to add couple comments.
Just one additional thing because you asked about challenges.
We were very focused on simplicity and speed and clarity for the manufacturers.
So one of the biggest challenges it's an incredibly complicated system but if you look at all of generics and trying to do all the trade terms and conditions with every manufacturer.
So as Mike said getting through this many given the complexity and then trying to come out with a program that was really straight forward and simple was a great challenge and I think the team did an amazing job of doing that.
Our next question comes from Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
A couple of follow up questions here.
First of all on the top line growth.
Mike I think you mentioned that Hep C was less than a quarter of growth that's about 3% contributions.
So when we parse out [indiscernible] the new customer is in the Hep C what percent of growth do you think is Cardinal specific versus just overall market growth? I can't get into real specifics but I would tell you that we all I think have seen if you're -- we've all looked at IMS data.
We've seen some really strong comparatively to the past numbers from IMS in around that 1% to 4% range.
Specifically over the last several months we've seen strong growth there.
So that's obviously a contributor to our top line growth.
But breaking it down between what's industry growth how much is new customers how much is existing how much because you have brands moving to generics et cetera it would be really tough to parse all of that out.
And then there is also lot of other things going on in the environment.
Ricky I want to make sure I understand your question but again in general terms our prescription growth was very good.
As Mike said our unit growth in generics was very good our positioning in the market was very good.
And again the IMS data last time it was 3 point something.
So there is clearly some demand growth which is good in the system.
Our position in the market is good.
And so that is a good combination.
So I'm not sure if you're asking about Hep C and whether we're disproportionately and I was trying to make sure I understood that question.
But I say again for us think about it just we've got a base of customers.
Those Hep C products flow through different channels and we're present in all those channels.
I'm actually trying to understand what growth is when you normalize for Hep C right assuming that over time will actually settle down? I don't think we'd probably take any piece of business out of our business and say that's normal.
I think this is now part of the base of the business.
Okay.
And then on Red Oak you said that 90% 95% [indiscernible] over.
So when we think about kind of the contribution that flows through your P&amp;L how far are you in the ramp in the generic stage? Is what we've seen this quarter and we take that and annualize it for the reminder of the year or should we see sequential improvement over the next four quarters? Ricky we're having a little bit of difficulty hearing you.
If I got it right as George mentioned I think I emphasized as we did see a ramp faster in this quarter than we had originally expected.
So I guess I would tell you that.
Now to try to describe with Q3 and Q4 we obviously still expect some ramp in the second half of the year compared to the first half of the year because every day we're signing up new vendors and transitioning suppliers but obviously with 95% of them already moved over to the new contracting you're getting close to where you could take Q2 and you're going to see it again ramp up over the next couple of quarters.
Again this is all built into the guidance.
Well take our next question from Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
George just following up on thinking about Red Oak and your opportunities with share existing customers can you maybe talk about the Greenfield opportunity for customers that source generic products from Cardinal? Yes good morning Lisa.
Yes look we believe that weve got a unique model here and a terrific partner we're really excited with flowing and I think as we look at the overall market of those who buy generics we have started to see a little bit of change as companies start to consider the most effective way for them to source their products.
Some companies who historically have sourced those products directly are reevaluating whether thats the most effective tool for them and I think in some cases weve been able to demonstrate to those customers that were a very attractive alternative as Cardinal Health.
So it's hard to size that opportunity for you but I would say it's pretty clear that there are existing players out there who today are still trying to -- I am sure evaluate the most effective way for them to source products.
We think were very attractive supplier to those and we have picked up some business in this area and I think those are encouraging signs.
Is there -- asking it the other way is there a number that you can give us as far as your existing customers that source and buy generics through you today? Is it greater than 50% is it 90%? Just trying to get some idea of just even in your existing customer base what the Greenfield opportunity is? Yes we would be able to give you that exact percent.
I would tell you that every customer buys at least some generics from us.
It's just whether -- what percentage of the generic spend they buy from us.
Sometimes its in a backup position or in other times they'll buy a 100% from us.
So I would tell you that we still have opportunity to be able to do that -- to grow that going forward and -- but weve done a great job historically in penetrating a lot of the change independence and even our hospital class of trade on their solid orals [ph].
Well take our next question from Eric Percher with Barclays.
Maybe Ill start by following up.
You just mentioned youve been able to penetrate even independents in hospitals.
I'm curious youve brought on a mail customer recently that you spoke of that is probably quite a bit smaller than your sourcing program when it comes to purchasing.
So is there a value proposition even where you wouldnt be taking over the fulfilment of the products? Yes absolutely.
We think we offer really great solutions Eric not only in terms of the potential to save money in terms of cost but also in the terms of our quality of the products the supply the way we work with the customer.
And so weve a lot of components of our program that were going to work with each customer.
Now that being said I cant speak for any of one individual customer and they may have various reasons why they may choose or not choose sourcing from us but we think we have as competitive or more competitive a program than anybody else.
I'm out there and then we do see opportunities going forward or working with our various customers who are not buying a 100% of the generics from us.
And then my follow-up would be on Canada and you may have covered this when we first started talking about the issue can you just remind me in simple terms what the issue has been? Is it competition volume pricing related? What is that work there? Yes it's been a couple of things.
Generally overall I would just say it's really market pressures and those market pressures a lot related to reimbursement in the environment have driven a lot of behaviors as you could imagine less purchases of capital equipment utilization all those types of things pricing pressure is on there.
So it's really reimbursement pressures in the market have put a lot of pressure on that business and it has forced them to relook at their model and work with their customers in different ways.
Our next question comes from John Kreger with William Blair.
George could you give us an update on how the China business is doing and what aspects of that business are gaining the most traction? Yes it's going well.
We mentioned that we had significant double-digit growth again in China.
All the components of business are growing.
Our distribution platform continues to expand.
We have continued to provide some wrap around services with those customers building out those capabilities more marketing presence which has I think been an exciting potential.
Our geographic reach continues to expand and we continue to expand the number of the direct-to-patient pharmacies probably in and around 30 at this point.
So -- and the product lines that were carrying is now bigger on those pharmacies.
So it's not unusual for us to carry double-digit number of products in those pharmacies; all good news because it expands our touch points to the patient reinforces our relationships with our biopharmaceutical partners.
So were encourage by the continued growth in China and we see it as a really exciting market.
And then maybe a quick follow up.
Can you remind us how the Henry Schein alliance will flow through the P&amp;L? Did that have an impact on the quarter to support it or will it mostly.
So essentially what's going to happen is the sales that used to be reported through a part of our Medical business which was in ambulatory those sales will ship to Schein? We will see our value coming through the gross margin line and our products flow through their channel.
So that's the basic mechanics.
And you would not have seen any value in the quarter completed.
And obviously our sales reps obviously moved over to Henry Schein.
So revenue expenses moved over to Henry Schein and obviously the margin will generate that but that's going to be more than offset.
As we said this will be accretive.
So it's by the margin that we will make on our sale of products to Henry Schein.
We'll take our next question from Dave Francis with RBC Capital Markets.
Down on a couple of questions asked earlier.
George and Mike can you talk a little bit more about the drivers that you're seeing from your chair on what's creating the current pricing activity on the generic front? Is it push back from insurers or the retail folks in the chain or other folks in the supply chain that are kind of equalizing the supply demand dynamic or is there something -- other factor at play that's causing a moderation in pricing on the generic front.
Yes I'm not sure that it's a single factor and again Dave it's hard to say to describe a trend.
I think we've talked at times about the conditions that we saw that probably led to some of the increased prices.
I would say systemically we're not seeing a big change in that.
So it's really individual behaviors.
These are all individual products.
You have to remember that when we talk about the pricing movement the biggest swings that have occurred over the last couple of years are on hundreds not thousands of products.
And so I'm really discrete to the individual supplier and their product line and so I wouldnt say the overall conditions of the market have necessarily changed.
We're just -- based on just some data we have and we saw in the first half we just decided that in our model we would moderate that second half.
But as I said before it is extremely difficult to project this because it really is individual companies with individual product lines.
As a follow up going to the capital deployment side of things you guys have quite a few different strategic development efforts going on across both product lines and geographies.
Is it possible to try and tease out from you a little bit more about where you see more specifically in the different areas that you're looking at better options than others relative to putting capital to work on the acquisition front.
It's a good question.
I wish I could answer it fully for you which of course I can't in terms of what we look at.
But let me just highlight the priority areas.
Certainly where we can build scale in our pharmaceutical business and particularly around generics it's always effective.
Those opportunities dont come up every day.
But those are my high priority.
Specialty continues to be an area of high emphasis.
We believe that you'll continue to see the growth of specialty biopharmaceuticals and products that address unique patient populations.
And so we continue to look in that area.
Everything around the IDN hospital services for us is important.
Many hospitals are beginning to look particularly given some of the changes in reimbursement and even some of the news coming out of HHS this week looking at bundled payment models.
Some of the area that used to be revenue drivers in a different model could become constant and so the opportunity to provide those services might be areas we look.
Consumables -- the ability to grow our consumable and our physician preference items clear priorities for us.
The home -- activities around the home and China those are all areas that we've talked about as high priority.
You guys know the system there.
Some of those areas that have many many more activities and more players and there are others that have fewer maybe more highly consolidated et cetera.
So those are sort of priority areas.
We're looking at all of them pretty much all of the time and the opportunities will come when they come.
Our next question comes from Steven Valiquette with UBS.
So for the medical segment I guess as we move further into calendar '15.
Are there any signs at all or any buzz still within the industry about accelerated patient volume growth for your hospital customer base related specifically to health reforms.
There still seems to be some mixed views on this within the investment community for the hospital sector in particular.
I think mixed use is probably right.
There are some clear signs and CMS at this point I think is saying enrollment is close to 10 million at this point coming through the ACA.
It's very difficult to tease out exactly what the contribution is in a hospital setting.
In think we certainly -- as we look at our pharmaceutical business and we look at prescription centers there's certainly some indication and it's more intuitive than anything else that there are more patients in the system.
And I think it's reasonable to assume that more patients covered have some impact on the hospital side.
But it's much harder to tease out partly because we're seeing some shift in channel behavior.
So it's not like you have one system.
When you have moving for example from an acute care setting to an ambulatory setting you can see a shift in volume.
So it's much more difficult to tease out the exact total volume impact of the Affordable Care Act and how that floats through the acute care centers because we're seeing sort of a natural shift in delivery of care where it's being delivered.
Were also seeing a little bit of shift of market-share among players given some of the network design issues in the system.
So it's a little bit difficult to tease that for you.
And you actually hear your customers talking about there or is it just sort of a quiet on that front right now? No you actually hear views from different customers.
So there are some that are [indiscernible] that they're seeing increases and some that are not experiencing quite as much.
So as you describe mix signals it's probably a little bit of an accurate description.
Our next question comes from Garen Sarafian with Citigroup.
So I'm trying to get a better idea of how conservative your guidance is putting Nexium aside.
So as I think about it Pharma sales were very strong of a -- maybe incrementally lower margin from Hep C.
The Red Oak contribution is ahead of schedule.
There is now slight commodity tailwind.
But guidance has to be raised roughly by the amount of the beat [ph] from litigation.
So is the offset from Canada incentive comp that might not have been fully baked in before? Is that the right way to think about it or is there anything else to consider? Well one thing that I consider remember is the tax rate is an important driver.
I'm not sure how the litigation piece would affect.
It's really -- and that was in GAAP not in our non-GAAP numbers.
And so I'm not sure how that would effect but tax rate is one thing to consider.
Remember last year we also had a minority investment income in Q3 that we had talked about.
Thats not expected to repeat in the second half which was a large number.
We did expect the Canadian pressures to continue to happen throughout the rest of the half and while weve said Red Oak started a little sooner that doesnt mean necessarily that it's going to get a lot bigger into Q3 and Q4.
It just came a little bit sooner.
Again I'm going to just jump in here for second.
Again I wouldnt comment on how conservative or not conservative our guidance is.
I'd say that were performing very well right now in general and so we feel very good about the first-half and actually pretty excited about the second half of the year.
So our guidance was increased.
We feel good about that and again we'll leave it to others to judge whether or not it was conservative or aggressive.
But we like our positioning and were pushing ahead.
And well take our final question from Eric Coldwell with Robert W.
Baird.
Can you hear me? A quick one here off topic related to foreign currency.
I didnt hear a lot about that today.
I'm curious about the impact overall of course specifically in Canada with the Canadian dollar we gained about 17% in the last six months.
Two is on the impact to the medical surgical segment and if you can talk through some of the dynamics on revenue and profit dollars related to that? Thanks.
Yes so Ill give you a little bit of information here.
First of all we did realize a smaller benefit from FX in Q2 than we did in Q1 but again it was minor.
Our assumption for the remainder of the fiscal year is really some modest upside to -- with FX and thats already built into our guidance.
The thing you have to remember on FX that makes it unique is because we operate in some countries but we buy in others you have the impact that one could be a positive the other one could be a negative.
And so the net if you really want size it's very small at this point in time.
Eric or the operator do you have a follow-up? And that does conclude the question-and-answer session Id like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Barrett for any additional or closing remarks.
With that thank you all for you questions and I very much appreciate all of you joining us on todays call.
We look forward to speaking with all of you later.
Thanks.
And again that does conclude todays presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Cardinal Health Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Sally Curley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jennifer and welcome to our Third Quarter Fiscal 2015 Earnings Call today.
We will be making forward-looking statements.
The matters addressed in the statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to the SEC filings and the forward-looking statements slide at the beginning of the presentation found on the Investor page of our website for a description of risks and uncertainties.
In addition we will reference non-GAAP financial measures.
Information about these measures and reconciliations to GAAP are included at the end of the slides.
I'd also like to remind you of a few upcoming investment conferences and events.
We will be webcasting our presentations at the Bank of America Merrill Lynch 2015 Health Care Conference on May 13 at 8:00 a.m.
local time in Las Vegas and at the Goldman Sachs 36th Annual Global Healthcare Conference on June 10 at 10:00 a.m.
local time in Rancho Palos Verdes California.
Today's press release and details for any webcasted events are or will be posted on the IR section of our website at cardinalhealth.com so please make sure to visit the site often for updated information.
We hope to see many of you in an upcoming event.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO George Barrett.
George? Thanks Sally.
Good morning everyone and thanks to all of you for joining us on our third quarter call.
I'm pleased to report another strong period of results with third quarter revenues of $25.4 billion an increase of 18%.
Third quarter non-GAAP diluted EPS was $1.19 up 18% from last year.
Based on the strength of our performance year-to-date we are increasingly confident that we will finish our fiscal 2015 in the upper half of our full year non-GAAP EPS guidance range of $4.28 to $4.38.
This is an extraordinary time in health care and our organization is doing an outstanding job of serving today's needs while at the same time leveraging on our experience to address the demands of a system in transition.
Our people have done this through a disciplined focus on execution by using our capabilities and insights to anticipate change and commit to providing solutions for emerging health care challenges.
With this as backdrop since we last reported earnings we've made some important moves in areas of strategic focus.
On March 2 we announced our plan to acquire the Cordis cardiology business from Johnson &amp; Johnson.
And earlier this month we completed the acquisition of the specialty distribution business of Metro Medical expanding our presence and reach in specialty business.
I'll come back to each of these important initiatives in my segment remarks.
First our Pharmaceutical segment.
Our Pharmaceutical segment had a very strong third quarter with revenues of $22.6 billion an increase of 20% compared to the prior year third quarter.
And our Pharmaceutical segment profit was up 25%.
The Pharmaceutical segment continues to operate with great efficiency attention to detail and strong strategic position.
Red Oak Sourcing our joint venture with CVS Health continues to operate extremely well.
We can now report that suppliers representing nearly 100% of the total generic spend have transitioned into the venture.
At time of great change it is not just the scale which brings value to our customers but also the combined knowledge of our 2 experienced organizations.
Our Specialty Solutions business continues to achieve extremely high growth rates.
And earlier this month we closed the acquisition of the specialty distribution business of Metro Medical the largest privately owned specialty distributor in the U.S.
This move strengthened our presence in the therapeutic areas of rheumatology nephrology and oncology expands our scale and positions us to provide more cost-effective services for our customers.
For clarity we expect to exceed the $5 billion specialty revenue figure for fiscal 2015 which we highlighted in our last earnings call even without the contribution of the Metro Medical specialty business.
As you know over the last few months we've seen some important developments in the world of biosimilars and we've said to you before it's very difficult to make categorical predictions on the evolution of this new subset of products.
We continue to believe that each product will have its own characteristics driven by many factors including: regulatory interchangeability; the disease which the drug addresses; the need for patient support; the location and mode of delivery; and of course the competitive response.
We feel well positioned to participate in each of these opportunities as they emerge and the acquisition of Metro Medical expands our reach.
Turning to our Medical segment.
We reported revenues for the quarter of $2.8 billion an increase of 4% versus the prior year.
Our segment profit was down 8% in an operating environment largely similar to that which we've outlined in prior quarters.
I'd like to take a few minutes to address this and give some perspective on the Medical segment's performance positioning and role in Cardinal Health's growth plans.
This is the commentary I would more typically provided at year end.
As our Medical numbers in the last few quarters have lagged below our high standards I wanted to address it directly now.
We take great pride in being best-in-class in the distribution of traditional branded medical surgical products.
The market forces have put pressure on prices in this legacy line of business.
This is not new.
In over recent years we have been purposely building a range of new products and services that are strategically aligned with health care trends are highly valuable to our customers expand margins and build on our base in traditional distribution.
Why has this been a more difficult year for our Medical segment? Simply put price erosion in that legacy branded med-surg distribution business combined with the challenges in the Canadian market have been more pronounced in this past year.
And while we have seen uplift from the newer services and products the uplift has not been large enough to offset those factors.
How have we been responding to this? We are relentlessly driving cost efficiency while at the same time continuing to reposition our Medical segment portfolio to ensure we are bringing to market the products and services that meet the future needs of our customers in a rapidly changing environment.
And I'd like to highlight a few of these moves.
We've expanded our consumable product line to position us to drive more Cardinal Health medical products and through more channels.
Our move to acquire Cordis significantly enhances our scale product line and capabilities in cardiology building on our acquisition of AccessClosure and aligning with our overall strategy around physician preference items.
Together they complement our moves in orthopedics and wound management to bring standardization and efficiency to medical devices a major pain point for our IDN customers and a meaningful driver of profit growth in the coming years.
More about Cordis in a few minutes.
Cardinal Health at Home formerly AssuraMed continues to grow significantly in excess of market growth.
We have unique capabilities in the fulfillment and the complex administration of serving patients in the home.
Our colleagues at Cardinal Health at Home interact with these patients every day.
They are extremely well trained and totally committed to supporting the needs of these patients.
We did complete one small home health tuck-in acquisition during the quarter.
We continue to see great potential as more care is delivered in the home.
Our strategic partnership with Henry Schein is off to a good start.
While still new we are now able to bring the Schein physician practice capability to our IDN customers.
We're beginning to ship products to Schein facilities and plans are to have the integration substantially completed during the June quarter.
I had the opportunity in recent weeks to address the combined teams at the Schein's National Sales Meeting and it was clear that the group is extremely optimistic about the opportunities in front of them.
To be clear these strategic initiatives are not a departure from our traditional distribution.
Rather they draw upon our expertise our considerable channel strength and the Cardinal Health name to bring the additional products and services that our customers and patients need to thrive in this dynamic health care environment.
That leads to [ph] me going forward in our Medical segment.
We don't expect major changes in the environment over the next few quarters and we could see a bit of choppiness.
But as we look forward and into the back half of FY '16 we would expect to see the new and growing business lines in the Medical segment and the increased utilization giving us a more sustainable uplift.
Going back to Cordis which we announced on March 2 we are making excellent progress in our work to move towards closing.
Leadership teams and organizational design have been defined in all key markets.
And recently we received early termination of the Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period the first of a series of steps to close.
Finally trying to continue this track record of double-digit growth we continue to see great opportunities in this expansive market.
It is very clear that the growth of the health care market in China will continue to outpace general economic growth driven by demographics lifestyle changes and strong government prioritization.
Overall Cardinal Health is performing at a high level generating strong cash flow and showing consistent growth.
The repositioning of our portfolio over the last half decade has been driven by a clear perspective on how we see health care evolving.
Most of our customers across multiple channels are experiencing new dynamics as both public- and private-sector forces push them to deliver care more cost-effectively in a more coordinated fashion into emerging sites of care in such a way as to bring the patient more squarely into the equation.
Our ability to offer a broad and integrated set of solutions across the continuum of care and to continue to innovate around our customer base has enabled new opportunities for growth at the same time helped us to absorb the bumps that can occur in a system going through rapid change.
I think it's an indicator of the overall strength of our portfolio that even through this transition we expect to deliver non-GAAP operating earnings growth for this full fiscal year in the mid-teens.
There's no other health care company that has quite the range of tools we can bring to the market and do so at a time when comprehensive solutions are the need of the day.
Put another way we can address a larger percentage of virtually any customer's overall business than any other company in health care.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mike.
Thanks George and thanks to everyone joining us on the call today to hear about our strong third quarter results.
My comments will walk through our third quarter consolidated financial performance as well as expectations for the quarter ahead as we close out our 2015 fiscal year.
You can refer to the slide presentation posted on our website as a guide to this discussion.
Third quarter non-GAAP earnings per share grew 18% to $1.19.
Total company revenues were $25.4 billion which was also an increase of more than 18%.
Total company gross margin dollars were up more than 12% versus the same quarter in the prior year.
Consolidated SG&amp;A increased 9% versus the prior year with the largest driver being acquisitions.
Next non-GAAP operating earnings in the quarter were $656.7 million which is a 17% growth versus the prior year.
Moving below the operating line net interest and other expense came in at $32.7 million in the quarter.
As a reminder Q3 of the prior fiscal year included a $0.06 per share after-tax gain related to the sale of our minority equity interest in 2 investments.
Our non-GAAP effective tax rate in the quarter was 36.5% and our diluted weighted average shares outstanding were about 334 million.
Moving to operating cash flows.
We generated $658 million in the quarter.
At March close our cash balance was $3.2 billion with $447 million of this held offshore.
We remain committed to our previously stated balanced capital deployment policy of focusing on reinvesting in our business and maintaining our differentiated dividend while pursuing strategic M&amp;A and stock buybacks on an opportunistic basis.
Next I'll review each segment's performance.
Let's start with the Pharmaceutical segment.
Revenues were up 20% year-over-year to $22.6 billion due to the growth of existing and new customers across all business lines in the segment.
Segment profit was $567 million an increase of 25% versus the prior year.
This was due to the strong performance of our generics program including the net benefit of Red Oak Sourcing as well as growth from our existing customers and contribution from new customers.
Segment profit margin rate increased by 10 basis points driven by the performance of our generics program which offset the impact of customer price changes and the dilutive impact of sales of branded hepatitis C therapies.
Clearly the performance of our generics program has been excellent.
Enhanced sourcing under Red Oak customer wins and growth of existing accounts have all been key drivers.
Manufacturer price inflation or deflation new item launches penetration of existing accounts and advanced pricing analytics are also factors in determining our program's success.
I remain confident we can balance all of these for continued growth in our generics program.
Besides the contribution from generics our branded drug business continues to go well with strong performance under our fee-for-service agreements.
As has been typical over the past several years inflation tends to be a larger component in the third quarter versus other quarters.
The rate of inflation was essentially the same as the prior year in the low double digits.
As George mentioned in our Specialty business we closed the acquisition of Metro Medical earlier this month.
Let me give you a few details.
Metro Medical has various business lines.
We acquired their specialty distribution specialty GPO specialty pharmacy and private label medical surgical disposable products business.
The Metro Medical Online and Metro Medical Partners pieces of the business were not included in the acquisition.
This acquisition will provide us the opportunity to expand our Specialty distribution scale and deepen our reach into the rheumatology nephrology and oncology markets.
We have been working on this deal for several months and had already contemplated the bottom line impact in our FY '15 EPS guidance range.
Now let's move to our Medical segment performance.
Third quarter revenue grew 4% to $2.8 billion primarily due to the contribution from acquisitions.
The segment profit declined by $9.1 million to $101.5 million.
This was a result of the decline in the contribution of national brand med-surg distribution and the continued impact of the previously communicated challenges in the business in Canada.
These same drivers contributed to a margin rate decline of 50 basis points versus the prior year period.
Let me give you a few other highlights to consider.
First revenues from our strategic accounts continues to significantly outpace our remaining book of business.
In addition top line growth from our higher-margin wraparound services is outpacing overall Medical segment revenues.
Our Cardinal Health at Home business has grown at or above market each quarter of this fiscal year.
And finally we are continuing to build out the physician preference items strategy.
In this space our acquisitions of AccessClosure and Innovative Therapies are off to a good start and are performing better than the business case.
Our recent announcement of our intend to acquire Cordis which we still expect to close before the end of the calendar year will only accelerate our work in this space.
Let me reiterate some key points surrounding this deal.
First we will be acquiring Cordis for $1.944 billion in cash or approximately $1.6 billion net of roughly $350 million in cash tax benefits.
Next we plan to finance the acquisition with debt and cash on hand.
Our intent is to issue debt sometime in the next few months and take out the $1 billion bridge financing that we secured as a contingency.
From a non-GAAP EPS perspective we expect slight dilution in FY '16 as a result of the 3 factors that we mentioned at the time of the announcement: first FY '16 will only include a partial year of Cordis earnings; second we expect approximately a full year of interest expense estimated at $0.07 to $0.08; and third there will be $0.13 to $0.15 of unfavorable impact due to an inventory fair value step up.
Then in fiscal 2017 the first full year post close we expect the transaction to be greater than $0.20 accretive and increasingly accretive thereafter.
We still expect operational synergies of at least $100 million annually by the time we exit fiscal 2018.
Before I move to our outlook for the rest of the fiscal year I'd like to add a few updates on China which reports into both segments.
Our businesses in China continued to perform well.
We continued to see strong double-digit revenue growth for the quarter up 25%.
Also during the quarter we closed on an acquisition of a local distributor in northeastern China which expands our local direct distribution to 11 cities.
Turning to Slide #6 you will see our consolidated GAAP results for the quarter.
The variance to non-GAAP results was primarily driven by amortization and other acquisition-related cost which reduced our GAAP results by $0.15 per share.
Looking forward we are increasingly confident in the upper half of our non-GAAP EPS range of $4.28 to $4.38.
Let me finish with the following updates around our corporate assumptions.
We continue to expect our full year non-GAAP tax rate range to be between 36% to 37%.
This obviously implies that our fourth quarter rate will be higher likely between 38% and 41% based on the timing and outcome of various discussions we are having with tax authorities.
We are expecting capital expenditures to come in at about $330 million and our full year amortization expectations increase to about $190 million based on the acquisitions we have completed as of March 31.
We don't expect the Metro Medical acquisition to add a significant amount to our final number for the year.
In closing we're pleased with our overall performance in the third quarter recognizing that we've got some important work to do in Medical to shift the trajectory.
We've taken great steps during the past several years to build a strong foundation for sustainable future growth.
That's why across the enterprise I expect a solid finish to our fiscal year.
With that let's begin Q&amp;A.
Operator please take our first question.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Bob Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
As we think about the performance in Medical George it seems like volumes have been improving on the inpatient side.
You've added some accretive margin deals.
It sounds like private label is still growing yet the business has struggled.
And I know you mentioned Canada being an issue for the balance of the year.
So I'm just curious if you can maybe give us some insight on when you think this business could really start to turn around.
Bob thanks for the question.
Yes look Canada has definitely been a tough challenge all year and as you said we tried to be pretty clear about the work that we need to do and are doing in the Med segment.
I think we just have to get through some sort of short-term choppiness.
I mentioned during the call that sort of the traditional -- the legacy lines of sort of traditional branded med-surg has been a large of the challenge and it's really been largely re-pricing of some accounts.
I think we'll start to see the benefit of all the initiatives that we've described begin to more sustainably feel like uplift as we get into the second half of '16.
But I actually like our position.
I think we're doing really good work.
If you look underneath the numbers over the last 3 years for example we've had very good growth of our private label products a good contribution of margin from them.
So it's really about this shift in the model where the legacy line is becoming a smaller component of the overall mix and those newer products and services are beginning to grow.
So we've done some really important work there.
We've made some big moves this year to sort of strengthen that and feel good about that.
Research Division</strong> If I could just sneak one in on Specialty I know in the quarter you acquired Metro Medical just curious maybe if you'd give a little bit more on how that business specifically enhances your Specialty footprint.
And then I know broadly George you've gotten this question in the past but increasingly seems like Specialty is obviously in a very important channel for the wholesalers.
And I'm just curious how do you feel about your footprint even in light of the Metro Medical deal? And are there bigger deals out there that could really give you greater exposure to this important channel? Yes.
Bob let me answer that and I just wanted to follow-up a little bit on the first part of the question again.
But Metro Medical really just helps us expand our reach.
We've been growing at a pretty hefty clip over these last couple of years.
And I think our scale is now at a point where we really are a meaningful factor in the market.
I think that's important given some of the trends in health care and Metro Medical just expands that reach in that footprint.
So we're excited about it.
Whether or not there are other opportunities out there we continue to look at every opportunity that's in our areas of strategic focus.
Obviously Specialty is one.
Whether or not you find the assets at the right moment at the right price is always a question for us.
But this is clearly an area of priority and so we'll continue to look for opportunities.
But we're excited about the Metro Medical.
Again just sort of backing up.
I wanted to make sure I highlight this on the Medical just as a reminder.
Our customers are really becoming much more complex.
They're no longer a single line of activity.
And so I do think that's part of what we've felt strongly about is that these complex systems need products and services across all of the lines of business.
So that's really important at a time where you're seeing the change in incentives which has been completely activity-based over the year just a different kind of incentive system.
I think the tools we really bring are going to become increasingly important.
So just I didn't want to miss the opportunity to say that related to the first part of the question.
We'll go next to Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A question on M&amp;A.
Post Cordis what is your appetite for M&amp;A? Obviously you did Metro Medical which is on the smaller size.
But what leverage are you comfortable going up to? And when you think about the areas you're interested obviously Specialty is one but maybe if can kind of rank order them for us? Yes.
So first -- again appetite is a -- we want to grow this business.
We want sustainable competitive positioning and we believe that there are key areas strategically that are aligned with where care is going.
And we've been pretty clear about that.
It's around generics.
It's around specialty.
It's around every opportunity to improve performance management for large integrated customers.
It's the home opportunities in China which is a unique market.
So we'll continue to look for those opportunities.
Obviously we have a strong balance sheet.
But again we're going to be very disciplined about the moves we make when we make them how we make them to make sure that we can execute and that's always been a priority for us.
But we feel well positioned strong balance sheet.
I don't know if Mike you want to add anything to that.
Yes.
Ricky I think -- again it's going to depend and whether it's a strategic fit whether the culture fits for us the growth trajectory all of those types of things of the acquisitions.
But from a balance sheet standpoint we have said that we would like to keep our debt ratio to 1.5 to 1.75 is the range that we're comfortable in.
Could we at times make a decision to go slightly above that for the right type of acquisition and stretch ourselves some? Sure we would be open to doing that.
We're always going to want to be concerned about where our -- where the debt rating agencies see us and that's an important thing for us to consider and how they view it.
And so sometimes the type of acquisition matters when we deal with those folks.
And so -- and remember it's the last thing too we like to keep about $1 billion to $1.5 billion of cash on hand just for our everyday working capital and needs because of the fluctuations in the business.
So those are some of the things that we try to keep in mind.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick follow-up.
Obviously in the prepared remarks you talked about the strong branded inflation.
I think it was in the low double digits.
And we're hearing strong inflation on generics.
Where do you think we are in the pricing cycle and kind of like the sustainability of the trend kind of like across your portfolio? Because we're seeing it both on brand generic and specialty.
Ricky I'll start with it but then I'll welcome Mike to join in.
Predicting this going forward is always difficult.
The branded side as you've seen has been on average which is interesting relatively consistent for a while.
But actually inside that average there's a lot of different rates.
And so it's one of the things that makes it in a way hard to predict but in some ways little easier because you have this smoothing affect.
On generics it is such a tough call because as you know it is an enormous product line that we call generics.
And so the number of products that can move the needle can be relatively small and you can talk about 50 75 100 products that move the needle.
So it's really difficult for us to give a forward-looking guidance on what we see.
We've done this in the past and I probably do it today -- we talked about the environment and what are the conditions of the environment.
And I'm not sure that those conditions have changed materially from last period but we have seen some variance -- variation.
Mike can touch on that.
Yes I would agree with George.
On the branded space it's been pretty consistent over the last several years that branded inflation rate has stayed in that double digits -- low double-digits area and we've not seen a lot of fluctuation there.
I just wanted to really call it out this quarter remind folks of the seasonality component and why the third quarter tends to be bigger than some of the other quarters.
And again we all know the majority of the fees are earned on the fee-for-service agreement so inflation is a much -- on brand is a much lower component of our margins than it used to be in the buy-and-hold period.
But again in the third quarter it's important so that's really why we call it out.
On generics it is important but one of the things that we keep trying to emphasize is that in our mind it probably gets a little bit too much attention at times because there are a lot of other levers in our generics program that are going to help us perform over the years.
And we really believe confidently that even in a -- if generic inflation were to decline there's a lot of other levers for us around our penetration around our pricing and analytics capabilities around new business that we won et cetera that we can still compete effectively and perform well.
We'll go next to Eric Percher.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So med-surg 2 questions.
One would be your comment in the press release on national brand distribution.
Is that meant to reflect your commentary on pricing erosion or is there anything else meant by that? And then also relative to Canada have we now reached a point where next quarter will anniversary some of those initial issues and customer departures or movement in-house? Does that help in the second half? Yes.
So really Eric what we're talking about primarily is really pricing on the traditional med-surg.
It's probably not much more complicated than that.
And a lot of that is actually repricing some meaningful accounts for us which we were happy to have in the long run important customers strategic customers.
I'm sorry the second part of your question? Research Division</strong> Within Canada it feels like it's been about a year since we first saw some of those issues.
I know there were a couple of customers that moved in-house.
Will we now anniversary that? Yes so here's what I would say and I mentioned this earlier.
I would say probably a couple of choppy quarters.
And then I think we're taking some pretty significant actions in Canada to address some changes in that market and I think then we'll start to feel a more normalized rate.
Eric I would expect us to still see some pressures in Canada through the end of the calendar year.
So it will still affect us for the first 2 quarters of FY '16.
And then beginning in our Q3 of '16 we begin to see a more normal and leveling off in the Canadian business.
We'll go next to David Larsen with Leerink.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys talk a bit about biosimilars and what's sort of opportunity you're looking at? And maybe just touch on the different channels that biosimilars will flow through.
If they ship to the member at home where they self-inject or if they ship to the doc office are you better positioned in any one of those channels than the other? Yes.
Again I'm not sure I can add that much to what I said in my earlier comments but again I'll just sort of highlight this.
And we've -- I think many of you have asked this over the years something we've been anticipating in terms of biosimilars -- that we've always felt that there would be some uniqueness to each product.
And as you said the route of administration which channel it goes through whether or not there's substitutability these are all things that will influence what kind of services the patient needs.
We actually feel well positioned regardless of route is what I would tell you.
So as you know we've got a extremely strong position in hospitals.
We've expanded our position in all kinds of clinics.
We're very strong in pharmacy.
We have got specialty pharmacy.
So clinics are an area.
And now obviously we've got some enhanced strength in the small physician practices.
So I think from our standpoint we've got great reach across therapeutic areas which is very important.
And from a channel perspective I think we're in a pretty good position regardless of that route.
The only thing I would add to that George is that also from a services standpoint upstream to the manufacturer we feel that we're in as good or better position than anybody in the industry to provide any type of services that they might need whether it'd be specific cold chain or other type of transportation needs.
Whether it'd be hub services data and analytics we know that we can provide all of the services too.
So we really feel that we're in a great position both upstream and downstream on biosimilars.
We'll go next to John Kreger with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> George and Mike if you're willing thinking about some of the puts and takes for next fiscal year how do you feel about the outlook realizing it's early compared to some of your longer-term growth goals? So again John it's a little early for us to be saying a lot about '16.
We're finishing our budget process.
Obviously at year end we provide guidance.
But in terms of our long-term goals we still feel good about those.
The organization right now has -- it feels like a lot of momentum actually.
And I think if you go around Cardinal Health I think you'd see a group that's very energized.
We're very clear about our goals very disciplined in managing to those.
And we'll have a little bit of bumps in any part of the business but the overall Cardinal enterprise feels good and on target to achieve the goals that we've set up.
No I would agree.
We do need to get through the budgeting process this summer.
That's really important.
Probably the only thing that we've really mentioned about next year that I can give you a quick update on was around the commodities.
And we did say that for FY '16 that they would be about $10 million to $20 million of benefit from commodities.
We have updated that work and we can still continue to believe that that's the right number for next year.
I know that's only one small component that goes into it but it is the only thing that we've really giving you any insight on.
I guess and the Cordis -- and the Cordis mechanics.
And then the Cordis mechanics that I've walked through yes.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
Just one quick follow-up on Red Oak.
As you move into year 2 it sounds like you've pretty much finished your work with supplier recontracting.
What happens next? Is there an opportunity for meaningful growth in year 2 as well? Yes I'm really excited about where we are in Red Oak.
We -- I serve on the board of Red Oak and recently had a board meeting and continue to be incredibly impressed with the team.
We've again been able to retain all of the key folks from both companies and have decades of generic buying experience on there which -- again to get through essentially 100% of the spend in this short a period of time has been exciting.
We do expect there to be uplift in FY '16.
A big piece of that will just because we'll have a full year of all of the benefits while we were ramping this year.
But even on top of that we do expect to continue to generate value.
And as I met with the team they're constantly looking at different ways to work with the manufacturers to try to create more incremental value for both parties.
We'll go next to Glen Santangelo with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> And George I just want to kind of come back and revisit this Medical segment issue a little bit further.
You talked obviously a lot on the call about the pricing pressure within the segment.
Is that repricing certain GPO customers that you got hit with? And is there anything else on the horizon that would impact the pricing as we go forward over the next 12 months? And I'm also kind of curious could you talk about the overall pricing of the underlying inventory you're selling? Are you seeing price deflation on the products you're selling or is that still somewhat inflationary? Is that impacting the profit margins at all either? I am going to come back to the second part.
And I'm not completely sure I understand the question but we'll make sure we do and then Mike will address that.
But this is really not a GPO issue Glen and so this is just individual accounts that happen to fall during a period of time where we're signing some long-term agreements.
No single one of them by the way is big enough to call out or necessarily move the needle.
It's just a general dynamic.
What again I wanted to highlight during the call is that over many years the traditional what we call branded med-surg business is going through this kind of dynamic and so that's really not new.
So I don't want to make it sound like there is one big contract that was the key which is some repricing in that aspect of the business we felt.
And I hope that answers that part of it.
The second part of the question Mike did you get? Let me take a stab at it and if I don't get it right Glen please just ask again.
But I agree with George as far as the GPOs.
We always work with them but in tandem we work individually with the hospitals.
And if you take a look at the product portfolios I don't think this is really necessarily a deflationary environment on all the items.
You're going to see certain items that may go up and some they're going to go down but I wouldn't say there's any one trend either way that is actually affecting this.
This is just our ultimate net price to the customer themselves not the items driving it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe if I can just ask one follow-up.
I mean could you maybe elaborate a little bit more on what the challenge is in the Canadian market? Because it kind of sounds like it's going to persist for another 2 to 3 quarters and I think it'd be helpful if you'd kind of just remind us exactly what that issue is.
Really 2 things.
One is similar to what we just described some repricing of customers.
And as we mentioned last time there were a couple of customers that we did lose in Canada that we won't actually anniversary until the end of the calendar year.
One of those brought in-house the services they were doing and one switched to a competitor.
So that's really what's driving it is a loss of a couple of larger customers as well as some pricing and retention of some other customers and those are really 2 big factors.
The other piece that I'd mention is there's been some shifting of reimbursement dynamics around that market and so again that is a component of that pricing aspect.
And remember those customer losses are not new ones.
Those are the ones I mentioned last quarter that are out there.
It just was going to take to the end of the calendar year for us to anniversary them.
We'll go next to Ross Muken with Evercore ISI.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to just touch base regarding Cordis.
So obviously you haven't closed the deal yet but you do have very close relationships with some of your physician and hospital partners.
You've got some key thought leaders in the field that you interact with on a regular basis.
What's the dialogue been post the announcement now that that's seasoned a bit with those individuals? And what other sort of things has it sparked in your mind as you think about kind of the long-term strategic value of the endeavor? Yes.
So this is -- it's been actually a really interesting period since the announcement.
A couple of things happened many of which we thought could happen which is just a high amount of energy around this inside our organization.
I think the people that are going to be joining us from J&amp;J are pretty excited about where this falls for us in terms of priority.
We're getting great feedback from our advisory boards.
As I think we've mentioned before we've got really world-class advisory boards who are working with us.
We've started to as you might imagine hear from other players in the market who recognize that we might be an interesting partner for them as we expand our commercial capabilities both here and outside the U.S.
in these medical products.
So I think what we're seeing is a pretty high level of enthusiasm across the board.
Obviously we've got a lot of work to do to get to the finish line and the closing.
But it's been really well received.
And I think that one of the things that I would highlight is people are now beginning to realize that it's not just about the product.
And so that we are talking about a different service offering in terms of being able to bring the medical device and some wraparound services that help manage inventory eliminate waste prevent errors these are all part of the strategy in helping in the physician preference area.
So I think what's happening both internally and externally is that our excitement about joining those 2 components the service component and the product component are giving us a pretty good sense of optimism about the future on this.
We'll go next to Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering can you give us maybe some color George around the size of Metro Medical? Obviously you talked about it being in 2015 numbers but maybe on a revenue basis how big is this? Lisa unfortunately I can't provide that information right now.
I think what we -- as we come out of our year and we start guiding into next year I think some of that will become a little bit more apparent.
But at this point I can't provide more information.
I'm sorry.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly as we think about Red Oak and we think about relationships with manufacturers there is a lot of talk about continued consolidation of generic manufacturers.
Can you talk at all about your expectation you or Mike around Red Oak and how that will impact you going forward? Yes.
Well let me just start and then Mike can speak more specifically to Red Oak.
Lisa as you know consolidation is not really new to the industry it's been happening for quite some time.
It's something we're used to.
It's a dynamic we understand.
And it's one of the reasons that having scale is really important and it's also a reason that's sort of the knowledge base [ph] of what each supplier's strategy is all about.
But that actually matters because ultimately what we're looking for in the best of situations is those win-win moments.
So I think we understand the landscape well and we know the players well.
And so consolidation -- so it can be a double-edged sword but I think for us we see the opportunity to work more closely with companies.
We see that as an opportunity.
Mike I don't know if you want to sort of add to it more narrowly from the Red Oak perspective.
Probably the only thing I would add is that first I guess I would emphasize I really like where our relationships are with the manufacturers.
They value us.
They understand the simplicity and the speed of our model and particularly the transparency.
And the feedback we're getting from manufacturers around those components has been incredibly positive.
And what that leads to is us being willing to try new things with them.
And we are also very focused on not only the large manufacturers but also smaller and medium-size ones that have really mentioned that they appreciate that they've been able to be part of the program.
And so again consolidation is part of the industry.
But we like where we're at.
And we think in certain situations if we needed to we can work with folks to try to create the right competitive environment to get the type of pricing we need.
We'll go next to Steven Valiquette with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So I guess just within the Medical segment I'm curious in relation to the Cordis acquisition.
Is your plate going to be pretty full over the next year just on the integration of this fairly large asset? Or if let's say other medical manufacturing assets are potentially available for acquisition would you have the bandwidth to do additional medical manufacturing M&amp;A deals in this segment over the next years? Yes.
Thanks Steve.
Yes.
So obviously I'm going to answer this with some care.
Let me just start with the basics.
As I mentioned earlier our balance sheet is strong.
Our organizational capacity is very significant.
But we always put a high priority on execution.
And so we think about when we look at acquisitions not just the financial capacity to execute and integrate but the organizational capacity to do that.
So we're very mindful of that.
I would also note that we have a very broad-based employee population.
So for example we can have a group of folks that are very deeply dedicated to the integration of one asset and literally another group whose lives are untouched by that.
And so what we are mindful of as we look across opportunities externally is making sure that we're not doubling down on those people who are trying to do a one-to-one execution execution of one deal.
But always mindful of that but I think we have a pretty talented diverse organization with a lot of capacity.
But we'll always think about execution.
We'll go next to John Ransom with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question about the independent pharmacy channel.
Are you seeing any more signs of stress in that channel just given some of the fundamentals around generic inflation and reimbursement squeeze? And if so are you approaching that marketplace differently than say you were 3 or 4 years ago? John let me start first and then I'm going to turn it to Mike.
Again we'll probably have 2 angles on this.
We've been doing really well providing value to these independent pharmacy customers.
And so I think the key is recognizing that there are certain market dynamics and market pressures that they deal with and what we do is focus on how do we relieve those pressures how do we create value in that environment? So I think what's happened is we've become increasingly targeted on how we create value for those kinds of customers in this kind of environment.
And our organization has done a really good job in terms of expanding our position there and growing some share and I feel good about our position with how we're creating value.
But certainly there are pressures out there that they have to deal with.
I think we're doing a lot to help them.
I mean I can think of a couple of specific examples.
First of all obviously Red Oak and our ability to be competitive from a generic programs and recognizing the need and how we price generics at different lifecycles of reimbursement that's always important to do that.
Our PSAO has been growing steadily and we've added a lot of members.
And we've been able to do some unique things with them and get out and market our PSAO and work with our customers to help them on their star ratings to make sure that they are the type of customers that the PBMs want to do business with and we are incredibly excited about those.
And then in other areas in the out front part of the store we've been expanding our programs and opportunities there to work with the folks.
And we really like where we're headed with some of our Cardinal private label lines and our opportunities to help them manage inventory both on the out front and behind the counter.
So we have a lot that we're doing.
I wouldn't say that we're seeing any decline that we've seen in this.
We continue to grow our share in that space.
And that's how I feel.
One thing though if you didn't know what I meant and for those on the phone about the PSAO that's our third-party contracting arm where we work with third-party payers to -- on behalf of our retail independents to get them reimbursements.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And my other question just checking in on your other channel.
You sell under a lot of IDNs.
What are they asking for from you that they were not asking for 2 years ago? And is there any effect yet that you're seeing from the ACA in terms of what capabilities you need? Yes.
It's a really interesting question because I think what they're seeing is a -- I think many of the big acute care and integrated systems are recognizing that in a world where there's probably some shifting in incentives where you're looking at bundles of care in payments where there are penalties for readmission they're just beginning to look at each line more holistically.
I think that one of the changes that we have seen certainly you still have to be very very competitive in each line is that the institution at the enterprise level of the IDN is thinking holistically about how do we compete how do we thrive in this new environment? And I think that's why our work across the enterprise is particularly resonating right now because we're really not just able to -- we're not just talking about lines of business.
We are talking about being able to address a huge percentage of their activity and I think we're sort of the only one that can do this in quite that way.
We'll go next to Garen Sarafian with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of questions on the quarter.
So first on the Pharma segment.
Could you elaborate a little bit more on the revenue growth of 20%? You called out growth from both new and existing customers so maybe if you could break those 2 out or give us an idea.
And any other relevant metrics such as volume growth or other inflation hep C so on and so forth? Yes.
So I can give you a little color.
First of all the hep C component of our growth is still less than 25% of the overall growth.
I mean it's an important driver but it is less than 25%.
New customers would be the largest component of our growth.
And then growth on our existing customers would be next.
Keep in mind with branded drug inflation being in the low double digits that's going to be a huge driver of overall top line revenue growth particularly in a market where you haven't seen very large generic launches that would be taking away some top line volumes.
So I think those would be the key drivers to help you understand that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Useful.
And then as a follow-up on the branded side of the business.
Has the non-fee-for-service so the buy-and-hold portion of the business remain the same as a percent of the entire business? And within it have the mechanics changed at all in the past few quarters maybe a couple of years to alter the profitability profile in any meaningful way? No that's been really really steady.
Over an annual period it's still averaging about 80% is noncontingent of our branded buy-side piece.
And then -- but as I mentioned in the third quarter it's a little bit more slanted towards inflation.
But again over a whole year period it's still running 80%.
The agreements continue to be about the same.
Often they renew very similar terms and conditions.
We continue to tweak them but this is an area that we continue to feel good about.
We'll go next to Robert Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Hey George or Mike maybe this is more a J&amp;J question but can you give us any color on the Cordis kind of results or hopefully post J&amp;J controlled announcement the wheels don't come off there? And maybe remind us of your budget plans there and what infrastructure you would want to put in place internationally to really maximize that opportunity? Unfortunately the first part of your question really is a J&amp;J question and I can't answer for them.
Regarding the second we have been really hard at work on really working across the globe on what that organization is going to look like.
And I think it all feels like it's going very well in the U.S.
As you know we have some cardiology assets here and so that we've been looking at how we're going to coordinate and integrate those activities have a very clear game plan.
x U.S.
I think we've got organizational design under control.
I think we've got the leadership in all key markets.
Looking about key positions we want to make sure that we retain some of the great tradition of that existing Cordis but we want to bring some of that Cardinal approach to it.
And so I think what we're -- one of the things that I mentioned earlier Bob that I think is interesting is as we go outside the U.S.
and we talk to the organization -- again recognizing that certain conversations we can't have at this stage as 2 separate companies they're particularly interested in our service model in how we can help bring additional efficiency because of the medical device side of it.
So I think people are beginning to realize that we can bring more than product skill.
Again short-term critical issue for us I talked about execution earlier we're sort of the Hippocratic Oath "do no harm." So where the businesses are performing very well -- and there are many many markets where there are 1 or 2 in the market we're going to make sure that we "do no harm" there and keep the business executing.
So I hope that helps an answer.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a point to drill down.
You're looking at the services side of things obviously.
But is there ever an R&amp;D line item that you'll be breaking out with this and other assets that you have in place now requiring a bit more investment on that front? That's a good question.
In terms of how we break it out I can't answer it fully yet.
What I can tell you in strategy in strategy this is not going to be a big research-based business unit inside of us.
They'll be development because -- and we do that today by the way.
As a medical device company today we're doing D of D [ph] as in development all the time.
But you should not expect us to be a research-based med device company in a big way.
That's not really the game plan here.
We'll go next to Dave Francis with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to go after the specialty piece a little different angle.
Kind of looking at the fact that you guys are at a $5 billion revenue level or will be as you exit the year there is the business now either from a critical mass of revenue perspective or a service portfolio perspective now at that place where you think you're big enough to grow the business organically through internal development efforts above the market rate? Or do you still need to deploy capital externally to get to the point where you are able to capture additional market share? Yes.
Actually the answer is we are growing it organically quite rapidly.
So that's the good news.
I think we have the scale.
We've got great talents.
It's a really innovative group.
We have got a pretty good group behind that driving new models for how to create value for our specialty customers and our suppliers.
So I think we're actually getting very strong organic growth and we would continue to expect to but again we'll look for opportunities to deploy capital if we see opportunity.
But we're getting very strong organic growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then as a quick follow-up looking back at the med-surg business.
You guys have been spending a lot of time trying to get the business repurposed and a little more focused on the ambulatory side of the business as well.
Can you talk about trends that you're seeing in terms of actual utilization or actual volumes being pushed outside of the inpatient environment that might be starting to pay dividends for you in terms of the investments in the home health and other ambulatory environments? Yes.
So thanks Dave.
So there the -- I would say these trends in terms of care moving home acute [ph] care to ambulatory settings is probably unambiguous.
This is absolutely happening across the board.
And getting actual exact numbers in this is difficult because I think our system is not use to tracking this.
I don't mean Cardinal system I'd say the -- those who track this kind of data.
But when we talked to IDN customers and we looked at our data it's pretty clear that more activity is being driven to different sites of care and I think that plays to the strategy.
It helps explain some of the moves that we've made and I think it's really going to be for us as we go forward a tailwind because I think that that is a natural byproduct of some of the changes in the incentive systems in the industry.
We've seen a lot of that with our at-home business already with those change in the dynamics that it continues to grow not only significantly but above market itself.
So we've [indiscernible] mix there in our ambulatory surgery center business where we continue to have very large share.
That's another area that we really like.
We'll go next to Charles Rhyee with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Obviously a lot of discussion on Medical.
I guess maybe one last question on this topic but maybe following up on the last question here.
I think part of George when you talked about repurposing the Medical business you also talked about having a more extensive dialogue with the c-suite of your hospital customers.
And it was something maybe that the organization wasn't really in deep with previously.
Can you talk about where you are in that progress to really kind of explain what Cardinal can do for them and for IDNs in general? And so look maybe like where we are at that stage in what inning and how much further can we get -- do we need to go before we can really drive that I guess? Yes that's a hard question.
And as you guys think about the "what inning we are in " that's always a hard question because the system is going through this change.
Let me highlight a couple of things.
Again as a reminder I would say our largest customers across health care are becoming more complex more integrated and their needs now cross more products and services than we've seen historically.
So we have been at the same time aligning with that and one of the things we did over the last year is to sort of create these strategic account teams.
We've always had strength in our selling organization selling lines of business.
We will continue to do that but I think a part of what we've been trying to leverage and this is what you're touching on is that need for the integrated system for that complex customer to think about a changing world and which are the partners who can help them.
So again as I think about changing from an industry which has been activity-based to one with different incentives to sort of a pay-for-outcome or a fee-for-outcome I think all the tools that we bring standardized consumables private label and medical products services that enable increased efficiencies helping them navigate across their channels our physician preference strategy our work in the home these are all valuable to them.
And then you combine this with our pharmaceutical lines and our specialty and I think we have sort of a unique set of offerings.
We're trying to make sure that we are positioned to address that at the most senior levels of the organizations because it's really now about competing in a world that looks in the future a little bit different than it did historically.
And we'll take our last question from George Hill with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Mike I just wanted to touch on something quickly.
I thought I heard you say in your prepared comments but I might have gotten the notes wrong.
Did you say the customer price changes were serving as a headwind in the drug distribution business? And if you did say that can you put a little more color around what that meant? Yes it was one of the offsets.
So we said the positives was the growth in new customers and the net benefits from Red Oak that were offsetting some of the customer price changes.
And those wouldn't be anything more than the normal types of day-to-day renewals we see with all of our customers.
So there's really nothing new there no new news.
It's just typical.
It always tends to be one of our largest headwinds and we're constantly working on the opposite side obviously to more than offset those.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
So just the kind of the normal pricing pressure that's not part of renewals? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe just as we've talked about pricing pressure in the med-surg business I guess George or Mike how should we think about how that pricing pressure impacts what will be the Cordis business? And is that business immune from that pricing pressure or will that see pricing pressure as well? Well I'm always reluctant to say anything is immune from pricing pressure that's obviously -- would be a big statement to make.
But I think we're really talking primarily about something that is a dynamic that's been occurring over some time in what I would call the traditional legacy med-surg business.
I really would not sort of connect that necessarily -- line of business.
This is just a trend that we've seen for some time.
And I think what we're seeing with the other lines of business is actually they are drivers in the opposite direction.
At this time there is no further questions.
I'll turn the call back to George Barrett.
All right.
Well thanks all for your questions and for being on this call.
We appreciate you doing this.
We look forward to getting a chance to talk to you and seeing many of you in the near future.
Thanks again.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen please standby.
We are about to begin.
Good day and welcome to the Cardinal Health fourth quarter fiscal year 2015 earnings conference call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
And now your host for today's call Ms.
Sally Curley.
Ms.
Curley please go ahead now.
Thank you Rupert.
And welcome to Cardinal Health's fourth quarter fiscal 2015 earnings and fiscal 2016 guidance call.
Today we will be making forward-looking statements.
The matters addressed in these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied.
Please refer to the SEC filings and the forward-looking statements slide at the beginning of the presentation found on the Investor page of our website for a description of risks and uncertainties.
In addition we will reference non-GAAP financial measures.
Information about these measures and reconciliations to GAAP are included at the end of the slides.
I'd also like to remind you of a few upcoming investment conferences and events.
We will be webcasting our presentations at the FBR Second Annual Health Conference on September 9 at 12 p.m.
noon in Boston Bayer's 2015 Healthcare Conference on September 10 at 7:50 a.m.
Eastern in New York and at the Morgan Stanley Global Healthcare Conference on September 16 at 8:45 a.m.
Eastern in New York Today's press release and details for any webcasted events are or will be posted on the IR section of our website at cardinalhealth.com.
So please make sure to visit the site often for updated information.
We hope to see many of you at an upcoming event.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO George Barrett.
George? Thanks Sally.
Good morning everyone.
And thanks to all of you for joining us for this morning's call.
I know it's an incredibly busy morning for all of you so please allow me to start by being direct.
Cardinal Health had a hell of a year in fiscal 2015.
Here are the facts.
First revenues climbed back over the $100 billion mark growing 13% year-over-year.
Second we delivered the largest non-GAAP operating earnings in the 44-year history of Cardinal Health growing 15% year-over-year.
Third we generated $2.5 billion in operating cash flow.
And fourth we returned $1.5 billion to shareholders through expanded dividends and share repurchases.
And I'm proud that our organization was able to generate this financial performance while making sound and strategic moves in drug distribution generics specialty small office practices consumables physician preference items all putting us in a forward position to sustain meaningful and measurable growth into the future.
So again a hell of a year.
Of course the year was not without its challenges.
Year-over-year our Medical segment was essentially flat adjusting for some non-operating compensation push downs.
But we have been disciplined and determined in modernizing the portfolio of drivers in our Medical segment building off our expansive footprint our deep customer relationships our global manufacturing and sourcing experience and the extensive cross learnings from our work in Pharmaceuticals.
To be clear every component of this new portfolio drives growth while leveraging the strong legacy and platform of our Medical Surgical distribution.
This has been a multi-year process but we expect to largely come through this transition as we exit fiscal 2016.
We've crafted a strategy which allows us to serve the needs of the market today but positions us to address the ongoing needs of patients medical providers hospitals retail outlets and all of our partners in a system undergoing change.
Long-term value creation is our true north.
Our healthcare system is at a key inflection point and with the ongoing convergence of historically disconnected players customers increasingly see Cardinal Health as an integrated and effective healthcare organization not a collection of individual business units.
The strong performance of the enterprise wasn't the product of a single business unit or function.
It was rather the collective energy and dedication of 35 000 people who are extraordinarily committed to their customers to patients to our business partners and to the performance on which they know investors have come to depend.
We will not rest on our progress; as we begin our fiscal 2016 we expect to continue our track record of growth and value creation.
So let me make a couple of quick comments about the fourth quarter which Mike will cover in more detail and describe specifically how we see our positioning in the market and why we expect to continue our growth trajectory.
We finished fiscal 2015 with a very strong fourth quarter.
Revenues increased 20%.
Non-GAAP operating earnings increased 33% and we recorded non-GAAP earnings per share of $1 an increase of 20% over the prior year.
Also during the quarter we entered into an agreement to acquire Harvard Drug which strengthens our capabilities in generics broadens our telemarketing reach and of course adds scale to our Red Oak joint venture with CVS Health.
Of particular note our Pharmaceutical segment had an exceptional quarter which you've seen in our press release and which Mike will cover in a few minutes.
This is truly a remarkable time in healthcare and Cardinal Health is poised to excel while the industry evolves.
We're now beginning to see a clearer picture of how our newer industry dynamics might affect the future.
Let me describe some of these forces and link them directly to the work that we're doing and how we position our business portfolio our product lines and our capabilities to grow in alignment with these dynamics.
First there's a noteworthy and increasing bifurcation in the Pharmaceutical world.
We see continued growth in the utilization of generic drugs and a new era of innovation in Specialty Pharmaceuticals addressing the needs of unique patient populations that require a very integrated approach to patient management.
Recognizing this we expanded and continue to grow and diversify our customer base; in particular we are broadening the number of customers who source generics from us.
And of course we established Red Oak Sourcing our joint venture with CVS Health which was fully operationalized this fiscal year.
This is an effective productive and profitable partnership and we see this is as a long-term driver of value for us CVS Health our manufacturing partners and of course our customers.
We've significantly grown our Specialty business and completed the acquisition of Metro Medical enhancing our reach and expanding the therapeutic areas we serve.
And we continue to deepen our relationships with biopharmaceutical manufacturers with valuable offerings in regulatory sciences patient access and support and health economics outcomes research.
Second we are seeing retailers big and small continue to expand their offerings and enhance their role in healthcare.
Increasingly they have become places where care is actually delivered and where healthcare counsel is provided.
These retail pharmacies need to operate at significant scale or leverage the scale of a partner to ensure efficiency and access.
With the proven strength of our brand and generic programs Cardinal Health offers the opportunity to aggregate demand for our customers.
We provide access to innovative tools technologies specialized services and solutions including network inclusion.
We now have nearly 6 000 customers in our Pharmacy Services Administrative Organization we call that PSAO; we re-contract on their behalf for network inclusion.
Without question Red Oak Sourcing provides tremendous support enabling a world-class generics program for our customers.
Third we are seeing hospitals and health systems become increasingly complex multi-site and multi-provider.
This creates new challenges for them and puts a priority on coordination efficiency and standardization around various needs including pharmaceuticals consumables physician preference items and the accompanying services around these products.
This creates unique opportunities for us.
Partners like Cardinal Health who can serve these needs across a highly distributed system and who can help ensure the right care in the right part of the system will be highly valuable to our manufacture partners and providers alike.
Integrated delivery solutions group works across health systems to build formulary capabilities and offer medication therapy management to ensure that each patient starts and stays on the right medicine.
Our consumables portfolio addresses the need for efficiency and standardization and our Cardinal Health branded products continue to grow.
Our acquisitions of AccessClosure Innovative Therapies and of course the planned acquisition of Cordis offer real solutions around efficiency and standardization combining products and innovative services and technologies.
Simply put we can eliminate waste and improve outcomes in the physician preference item area.
And we are very excited to have joined forces with Henry Schein to more efficiently and effectively serve small physician practices many of whom are now affiliated with IDN.
Combining our tools with Schein's world-class capabilities and servicing office-based practices makes us a stronger partner for integrated system and allows us to move more of our Cardinal Health branded products through more channels.
Fourth as the baby boom population moves into their 60s and now their 70s many are living with multiple chronic diseases and therefore need new and different forms of care.
These patients are being treated indifferent and what we internally refer to as peri-acute settings.
The moment of discharge is a unique moment in our healthcare system and transitions to post-acute settings are extremely important.
We know that many of these patients are best cared for in their own homes where they can have the dignity and support they deserve.
The strength of our Cardinal Health at Home platform continues to grow bolstered by increased penetration of Cardinal Health branded products.
And we are in the process of launching our Hospital Quality at Home initiative which allows consumers the opportunity to purchase a product they've used in clinical settings from retail outlets.
And finally we are seeing payment models changing shifting the focus to outcomes rather than activity; results not effort.
In January the Department of Health and Human Services set clear goals and timelines to shift Medicare to value-based models.
In recent weeks CMS announced their first mandatory targets for bundled payments starting with lower extremity procedures.
The move to expand our position in cardiology with products offered by Cordis and AccessClosure in wound management with Innovative Therapies and then trauma with Emerge all align perfectly with these developments.
Our ability to serve these bundles with products and innovative services now across multiple therapeutic areas is a key differentiator; highly valuable to our provider partners and will be key driver of growth for us.
With a strategic eye on the future identifying and embracing evolving industry dynamics Cardinal Health is uniquely positioned to create value in this new environment.
We are an integrated healthcare company delivering solutions to our customers across the entire continuum of care addressing critical challenges around efficiency costs quality access and outcomes.
So what do we expect going forward? This morning we provided FY 2016 guidance of $4.85 to $5.05 which represents an 11% to 15% growth rate.
We expect to see growth along multiple dimensions.
Without question generics remain an important strategic focus for us and we expect that Red Oak will continue to generate meaningful value for us and for our customers.
As I mentioned before we closed the acquisition of Harvard Drug in early July.
This will further fuel our growth in generics.
Our Specialty business continues its strong growth and we expect that Specialty Solutions will finish fiscal 2016 with revenues in excess of $8 billion.
We expect our Medical segment to grow at mid-single-digit rates and finish the year with momentum.
Of note the Medical segment will have a challenging first quarter as a result of some discrete items the largest being the wind down of a post-spend CareFusion contract in Canada which Mike will cover.
Nevertheless we continue to expect higher than market growth in our strategic accounts and double-digit growth in our Cardinal Health branded Medical products.
We anticipate outgrowing the market in Cardinal Health at Home and look with enthusiasm to closing the acquisition of Cordis likely in our fiscal future.
China continues to represent a significant opportunity.
The healthcare market in China is still in its early phases of growth and our large and expanding footprint will be increasingly valuable to us and our global Pharma and Med Tech partners.
Finally having made some important moves in these last 18 to 24 months we will prioritize and focus on execution and performance management around these strategic priorities.
And because of this expect that our capital deployment approach in the near term will be weighted toward reinvesting in our existing businesses and enhancing enterprise capabilities to ensure that we maintain the kind of impressive earnings growth we've experienced over the last one two and five years.
We come out of fiscal 2015 with a strong track record of financial performance and a balanced well-positioned portfolio.
We have high expectations and I'm confident in our ability to continue to deliver robust growth demonstrated by real and measurable results.
Let me finish by thanking all of you for your support all of our customers and business partners for their trust and all of our employees who work incredibly hard day-in and day-out to set the industry standard of excellence.
Great people make great companies and great companies make for great communities and in that regard our people set a high standard.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mike for a detailed review of the financials.
Mike? Thanks George.
I'm extremely pleased to report such an outstanding quarter and a terrific fiscal 2015.
The financial performance of the enterprise along multiple dimensions: revenue operating earnings cost control and EPS growth all point to tremendous attention to high performance by our team.
At the same time we continued a disciplined and balanced approach to capital deployment which served us well this year and in the years to come.
Now let me review our strong fiscal 2015 results.
I'll focus on our Q4 performance and provide select full-year highlights then I'll offer our fiscal 2016 outlook including some of the underlying assumptions.
You can refer to the slide presentation on our website as a guide to this discussion.
Starting with the consolidated company financials Cardinal Health had a strong finish to an excellent year.
For the fourth quarter non-GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $1 a 20% growth versus the prior-year quarter.
This contributed to full-year non-GAAP EPS of $4.38 a year-over-year growth of 14%.
Fourth quarter revenues came in at $27.5 billion or a growth of 20% and full-year revenue grew 13% to $102.5 billion.
Gross margin dollars were up over 16% in the fourth quarter and increased 11% versus the prior full year.
Gross margin rate in the quarter compressed slightly due to the Pharmaceutical segment growing at a faster rate than the Medical segment.
SG&amp;A expenses in the quarter and year increased largely as a result of acquisitions.
We drove strong growth in consolidated non-GAAP operating earnings up 33% in the quarter and 16% during the year.
Non-GAAP operating margin rates expanded 20 basis points in the quarter and 7 basis points for the full year.
Net interest and other expense increased as anticipated versus the prior year's quarter primarily due to the new debt issuance to fund the Cordis and Harvard Drug acquisitions.
As we expected the non-GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter was unusually high at 42.2% due to certain federal and state tax matters.
The full-year rate was 37.2%.
Our fourth quarter diluted weighted average shares outstanding were 333 million.
Full-year diluted weighted average shares were 335 million nearly 10 million lower than the last year.
During the fourth quarter we took the opportunity to pull forward fiscal 2016 share repurchases and bought $350 million worth of shares.
This brought our fiscal 2015 share repurchases to over $1 billion.
At fiscal 2015 year-end we had about $700 million remaining on our board-authorized share repurchase program.
Moving on to consolidated cash flows we generated $868 million in operating cash flow during the quarter.
This brought the full year cash from operations to over $2.5 billion a result of strong contributions from both segments.
Overall we ended June 30 with a strong balance sheet including a cash balance of $4.6 billion of which $423 million were held internationally.
As a reminder our cash balance included $1.5 billion in proceeds from our recent debt issuance which in combination with an additional $1.5 billion of cash on hand will be used to fund Cordis and has been used to fund the Harvard acquisition which closed in early July.
In addition remember that we like to keep $1 billion to $1.5 billion of cash on-hand as the scale of our business can require large daily fluctuations and cash needs.
Now let's move to the Pharmaceutical segment performance for the fourth quarter and fiscal year.
The segment had outstanding performance in the quarter and the year.
Revenue in the fourth quarter grew 23% to $24.7 billion driven by growth in our existing and new customers.
Full year Pharmaceutical segment revenues were $91.1 billion an increase of nearly 14% versus the prior year.
Segment profit increased by 42% in the fourth quarter to $535 million.
This performance was driven by our generics program which included volume growth in our customer base as well as excellent execution by our colleagues at Red Oak.
On the year segment profit rates expanded 12 basis points to 2.3% driven by our generics program and continued focus on expense management.
Moving to our Medical segment; this quarter revenues grew 2% to $2.9 billion due to contributions from acquisitions and growth in our Cardinal Health at Home platform.
This was partially offset by declines experience in Canada.
For the year revenues grew 4% to $11.4 billion.
Fourth quarter Medical segment profit increased 7% to $103 million.
This growth came from the expansion of our Cardinal Health brand products and services through a combination of acquisitions and organic efforts coupled with targeted cost reductions.
For the year segment profit dollars decreased 2.6% and the rate compressed to 3.8% due to the portfolio mix George discussed earlier as well as the impact of the Canada business.
Let me share a quick note on Cardinal Health China which spans both of our reporting segments.
Our business in China generated over $3 billion in revenue for the year resulting in strong double-digit top and bottom line growth.
The team there continues to execute well through a combination of organic and inorganic moves and we continue to gain share in our ranking among the top 10 healthcare distributors in China.
If you review the GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations on slide number eight you'll see our consolidated GAAP results for the quarter.
The $0.12 variance to non-GAAP results was primarily driven by amortization and other acquisition-related costs which reduced our GAAP results by $0.18 per share.
We also had proceeds of $56 million in pre-tax antitrust settlements that are included in the $0.08 net litigation recoveries line.
These were excluded from non-GAAP results.
With a strong fiscal 2015 behind us let's turn to our fiscal 2016 outlook.
In early June we provided you with our preliminary fiscal 2016 guidance range.
I'll now go through our refined outlook including our current expectations and relevant underlying assumptions.
We expect consolidated company revenues to grow in the low-double digits and as George stated we expect our non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $4.85 to $5.05.
While we don't provide quarterly guidance we do expect our earnings to be more back half-weighted in fiscal 2016.
This will become clearer as I walk through the segments.
Let me first start by providing Pharmaceutical segments' specific expectations and assumptions.
We expect robust revenue growth in the low-double digits versus the prior year.
The anticipated drivers of revenue include branded manufactured drug price increases similar to what we experienced in fiscal 2015 the incremental increase related to new customer wins and healthy growth from both Specialty and the China Pharmaceutical business.
For our generics program overall we expect a positive year-over-year earnings contribution.
This growth will be driven by several factors such as current customer penetration new customer wins execution of new launches the manufacturing pricing environment and of course execution at Red Oak.
Speaking of Red Oak it has been a great success.
As we've mentioned the achievement of certain milestones would trigger pre-determined payments beginning in fiscal 2016.
Because of excellent performance Red Oak achieved these milestones and we will be making our first $10 million-additional payment to CVS Health in this first quarter of fiscal 2016 for a new total quarterly payment of $35.6 million.
Our fiscal 2016 outlook also assumes overall generic unit growth versus the prior year as a result of growth in existing customers as well as the incremental impact of the new customers that we on-boarded in fiscal 2015.
In addition we are assuming a lower year-over-year contribution from new item launches as well as the moderating generic manufacturer drug pricing from what we observed in fiscal 2015.
Again we feel very positive about our outlook for our generics program and expect the second half to be stronger based on the way we see the various components of our program shaping up.
Fiscal 2016 will also include a full year of the Harvard acquisition which closed in early July.
We expect this to ramp through fiscal 2016 resulting in non-GAAP EPS accretion of greater than $0.15 per share net of the $0.03 to $0.04 of its interest expense for the related debt financing.
As I just mentioned we expect Cardinal Health Specialty Solutions to be a solid contributor to performance in fiscal 2016.
Last year we told you that Specialty was on a trajectory to exceed $5 billion in revenues in fiscal 2015.
The business surpassed that goal and we continue to expect robust organic growth.
Along with the acquisition of Metro Medical we now expect to end fiscal 2016 well in excess of $8 billion in revenues.
Rounding out our Pharmaceutical segment assumptions we are also planning for double-digit growth in our China business.
Now let's talk about our expectations and assumptions around our Medical segment for fiscal 2016.
We expect revenues to grow mid- to high-single digits driven by Cardinal Health brand product growth which includes Cordis our China Medical business and Cardinal Health at Home.
For the full year we expect mid single-digit segment profit growth due to the same drivers.
Now let me give you some additional insight into the cadence of the Medical segment performance as we work through a year with multiple moving parts.
The segment profit growth I just mentioned is significantly back-half weighted due to the anticipated timing of the close of Cordis lapping of the previously-mentioned contract losses in Canada and the timing of the continued ramp of Cardinal Health brand products which includes the launch of both new products and expansion of existing product lines midway through our fiscal year.
Let me expand a little bit on these items.
First regarding Canada for the first quarter we expect a $10 million discrete year-over-year headwind related to the winding down of the CareFusion contract that George mentioned earlier.
Also there are other smaller puts and takes that combined with the wind down will result in a first quarter year-over-year decline in the high teens for the segment.
Even with these factors the Medical segment will grow segment profit by mid-single digits.
So while the first quarter and half will be down our strong second half will result in full-year growth.
Since Cordis is an important contributor to our stronger second half I'll provide the assumptions included in our fiscal 2016 guidance.
We expect to close the Cordis acquisition before the end of the first half of fiscal 2016 and we expect an inventory fair value step up of $0.13 to $0.15 that will reduce non-GAAP EPS in the second and third quarter of fiscal 2016 and be substantially complete by the fourth quarter.
Based on this timing we would expect meaningful contribution from Cordis in the fourth quarter.
Let me finish by highlighting a few key corporate assumptions for the year.
We expect net interest and other expense of $195 million to $210 million which reflects the mid-June debt issuance related to the funding of the Cordis and Harvard acquisitions.
We are projecting an overall non-GAAP tax rate in the range of 35.5% to 37%.
As a reminder we only provide full-year guidance on tax rates as they can have natural quarter-to-quarter fluctuations resulting from discussions with state federal and international authorities.
We also expect amortization of intangible-related assets from acquisitions closed as of June 30 2015 to be approximately $194 million or about $0.36 per share.
This does not include amortization for Harvard or Cordis.
We will update this assumption throughout the year as that information becomes available.
Moving on to capital deployment for FY 2016 our strategy remains consistent with recent years.
As we have stated we view reinvestment in the business as a priority.
During the year we expect capital investment to increase to the range of $510 million to $540 million.
This is higher than our historical run rate as this year we have identified opportunities to invest in strategic priorities refresh our information systems in our Pharmaceutical segment and support our recent acquisitions.
While we regularly evaluate opportunities to redeploy capital into the business longer term we expect capital expenditures to return to historical levels.
We also remain committed to growing our differentiated dividend in line with our long-term non-GAAP EPS growth rate.
We will also continue to explore opportunities to pursue strategic M&amp;A with a bias towards executing on the integration of the recent acquisitions.
And as always we will continually evaluate opportunistic share repurchases as part of our balanced capital deployment approach.
For fiscal 2016 we are assuming diluted weighted average shares outstanding between 334 million and 336 million.
As I mentioned this reflects a pull forward of approximately 350 million of share repurchases that were just completed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015.
I know we just provided a lot of information for you around our assumptions so please please feel free to ask any clarifying questions.
In sum fiscal 2015 was an excellent year for Cardinal Health and I'd like to acknowledge our team for the work they've done and continue to do to make us successful.
I feel confident with our plans for fiscal 2016 and look forward to the year ahead.
I'll now turn it over to the operator to start Q&amp;A.
Thank you sir.
And for our first question we go to Bob Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Great.
Thanks for the questions.
I guess I'll start with the obligatory generic inflation question.
I know your directional assumption around generic drug manufacturer pricing to moderate versus fiscal 2015 is in line with what you guys have been saying but I guess I am curious just around order of magnitude.
Have you guys seen anything change in the marketplace more recently that would've made you think of this as less of a tailwind and for your fiscal 2016 than what you guys had been kind of signaling to us over the last couple of quarters? Good morning Bob.
It's George.
I think why don't I let Mike start with that and then maybe I'll follow up with a little bit of color.
But Mike you want to just start with it? Yeah absolutely.
Hey thanks Bob and good morning.
As we said in the past these are generic inflation can be incredibly lumpy.
It's not very consistent month-to-month or quarter-to-quarter.
So while we are telling you that we believe that it will moderate for our fiscal 2016 versus fiscal 2015 we're not really seeing anything in large changes in the environment.
All the things that we've seen in the past such as the launch schedule not being where it was in the later 2000s delays for product introductions we're not seeing lots of new competitors necessarily in the marketplace.
All those types of things that we've talked about in the past we're not really seeing any changes we're just trying to probably be a little bit conservative to let folks know that we do expect it to moderate a little bit over the next year.
Yeah let me just echo a little bit of this.
I don't know that I'd be able to describe Bob a meaningful change since we last reported other than of course some very large announcements of transactions among the manufacturers.
So just  I'm always reminding people on this question that you have to remember each product is sort of its own market with its own characteristics.
How complex is the drug that's being manufactured? Is there plenty of raw material? Where is the drug used? How many players? What's happening for their overall business? So there are a lot of moving parts in this but I think our general perspective is and I think we've said this last quarter but just to moderate our assumption going forward a bit.
No.
I think that's fair.
And I guess just my follow up on the cash balance Mike I appreciate the breakdown you gave of where you guys are and what's earmarked for what.
But I guess if I go through some of the adjustments and then factor in the CapEx guidance you gave it doesn't really look like you have too much flexibility for deployment.
Anything you can share on cash flow generation expectations and I guess if my math is right when do you guys feel like you'd be back in a position to either pursue meaningful deals again or meaningful buybacks? Yeah.
Really fair question.
As we take a look at it a couple of things.
I would say that I'm very comfortable with our ability to continue to do acquisitions even today if we needed to.
We have access to a lot of different sources of funding I wouldn't be uncomfortable with putting more debt on the balance sheet if we needed to if we found the right strategic opportunity.
Again that all being said we're going to really be focused on execution this year.
We've really set the table well I believe this past year with some really key acquisitions; particularly Harvard all ready and Cordis to close.
We're going to focus on that execution and we're going to be really balanced again in our approach with capital.
And so I know George you'd probably like to say a couple...
Yeah.
Just really quickly.
Bob I think we've done generally over the last years pretty well in terms of our ability to generate cash and our team is incredibly good at managing working capital.
So I think we feel confident about the way that we'll generate cash and of course we'll think carefully and opportunistically about ways of deploying that capital should that occur.
I also just want to finish that last part just to remind you that we recognize how hard it is for you all to model generics.
And so I know it's frustrating we've tried to do as best we can to get some general color but I just want to acknowledge that.
But again I feel our general strategy on capital deployment has not changed.
We feel very good about the way we'll be able to generate cash and to the extent that we're generating more cash we'll be thoughtful and creative and certainly opportunistic.
I appreciate all the comments.
Thanks.
Thanks Bob.
Operator next question? And for our next question we go to Glen Santangelo with Credit Suisse.
Thanks and good morning.
Hey George.
I just wanted to follow up on some comments you made in your prepared remarks.
I think you seem to suggest that your capital deployment would be weighted towards your existing businesses and I just want to be clear on exactly what you're seeing.
Do you believe it's just going to be CapEx internal CapEx towards the businesses that you've already bought or are you somewhat suggesting that you'll also consider doing acquisitions that may complement some of the existing businesses that you have internally? Yeah.
Good morning Glen.
Thanks.
Yeah so a couple of things.
One is we want to make sure that you all know that we've got a very high priority on executing the business particularly on some of the moves that we've made.
So we want to make sure we're all over those and that we're doing the things that we need to do to make sure that those things happen the way we want.
We will of course continue to look for opportunities that we think drives strength in the businesses that we have.
So that's largely what we're saying.
Again number one a high priority on execution.
We've deployed some capital we want to make sure that we do that very efficiently.
And second of course we're always looking for those opportunities to sort of double down and get stronger in areas.
But I hope that answers the question.
Okay.
Maybe if I just follow up with a question for Mike on the guidance.
Mike it kind of sounds like listening to the way you characterize it there is no capital deployment really built into your new guidance assumptions.
If we're not going to model acquisitions and it seems like based on the share count that you're providing you're assuming no share repurchase as well.
Is it a fair characterization to assume that the guidance includes no capital deployment? Yeah it's a+ fair question.
When you take a look at the assumptions obviously you can take a look at the fact that I mentioned that we were planning to do about $350 million of capital deployment this year in FY 2016 but we decided to go ahead and pull that forward opportunistically into the fourth quarter.
So it is a fair assumption as you take a look at the metrics that we've put out and assumptions that we would have obviously a limited amount of capital or stock buyback this year.
But again you have to remember that's very early in the year.
We're going to generate strong cash flows this year and we're going to take a look at all of our capital deployment policies and if there's opportunities in the year to buy back stock opportunistically we won't hesitate to do that.
Our next question we go to Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Yeah.
Hi.
Good morning and congrats on the quarter.
So my first question is around kind of the generic programs.
In the prepared remarks you emphasized kind of like the growth and momentum that you're seeing there.
So can you quantify for us how fast is your generics program growing and how it compares to what you're seeing market growth is? And how does Harvard fit in? So when you think about fiscal year 2016 do you separate the  is the Harvard accretion includes also the contribution to generic or do you think about it as kind of like supporting your growth of your generic program separately? Yeah Ricky.
I would say Harvard's really both.
I mean Harvard brings to us generic scale which is always important particularly with the excellent performance we're seeing from the Red Oak team.
It also brings to us new telemarketing skills and teammates.
It also had some private label brands that we're going to take a look at how we can continue to leverage those in the acute space.
So Harvard brings several different capabilities to us that we're excited about and we've had an excellent team in the telemarketing in that packaging area over the last couple years that have executed incredibly well.
So I would say it brings both capabilities as well as generic scale to us.
Yeah.
Broadly Ricky good morning it's George.
Our generic program is doing very well and I think we can safely say we're outgrowing the market.
There are a lot of components to that.
I think we've gotten a broader base of customers who see us as a primary source for generics.
And I think we're doing well with them getting better share of wallet meaning I think we're creating value for a very very broad percentage of their overall mix.
We've had a little bit of customer growth.
The overall picture has been very encouraging and as Mike said I think Harvard will just add to that.
One other thing to add on Harvard we do really have some interesting synergies because we're very very good at this today and so this sort of goes right into our sweet spot where we can leverage capabilities that we have in telephony and salesforce productivity in that  in our telemarketing group.
So we're really excited to sort of bolt that into the system.
But it'll very much fold in.
But we are calling out a specific accretion that we see from that acquisition.
Okay.
And then my follow up will be on the Specialty side again.
Seems like a pretty impressive step-up in revenue contribution right from $5 billion to $8 billion.
So can you maybe share some more detail on what you're doing kind of like what's the revenue model how are you working with manufacturers are you also kind of like earning fees from manufacturers for the support services or is it just kind of like for the distribution? So as much color as possible would be great given that significant step up that we've seen in the contribution...
Sure.
Ricky let me start and with more general comments then but I'll let Mike give a little more detail.
Specialty has been a really good growth story and much of that organically.
Now Metro Medical as Mike said will contribute a lot to those increased revenue numbers as we go from $5 billion to $8 billion.
But a lot of this has been organic.
Most of the revenue growth has come from the provider side just growing the number of customers that we supply across therapeutic areas.
That's been the primary driver over these the last couple of years.
I do think that we've increased the capabilities that we have to serve Pharma and Biotech and those tend to be less impactful on the top line but more impactful in terms of margin rates to different kinds of services and more consulting kind of revenues.
So I think it's been a good mix of components.
But I would say a lot of the revenue has come from expanding our provider base.
Mike what else? I'd absolutely agree with that.
And I think that's really coming from our service offerings in that space.
I think that the team over the last several years has done an excellent job of creating offers that we think are best-in-class for either the oncologist rheumatologist and nephrologists that we're serving and we have a lot of participation with them where they come here often to Columbus work with us to help us develop our products and services.
I think we're doing an excellent job of listening to what they need and delivering the types of services that they need to get them comfortable to turn over their distribution to us.
For our next question we go to Charles Rhyee with Cowen &amp; Company.
Oh yeah thanks for taking questions.
First just had a quick clarification I know you said that in the reconciliation of the non-GAAP you backed out the litigation recovery.
Is that the same when I look at the presentation for the Pharma segment that excludes also the gain there as well? And then my follow-up question really is more about China actually.
When you talk about the China Medical just curious what's in that part of your business? What do you do on the Medical side in China? Mostly we've talked about the Pharma distribution there just curious and Specialty in China.
Just understand in what's there and what percent of the mix in China that kind of represents? Thanks.
Yeah.
Great.
I'll start on the settlements and then turn it over to George for a little discussion on China.
Yeah that $56 million of funds that we received in the antitrust settlement have been excluded throughout all the numbers that I talked about.
They're not in our overall non-GAAP numbers nor are they in any of the results of the Pharmaceutical segment.
We see these as generally non-recurring hard-to-predict type of items and we have carved these out for years.
They have always been carved out of our numbers historically and it's just a consistent pattern that we've had over the past.
Great.
Charles I'm sorry did that get what you needed from...
Yes absolutely.
Good.
That helps.
On China just a couple of quick observations.
We started in China acquiring a business that was roughly $1 billion and growing to nearly $3 billion at the end of FY 2015.
It's really been growth along multiple dimensions.
Certainly our Pharmaceutical distribution is the biggest generator of revenue for us in China.
We are doing  increasing med tech work and sometimes just as a 3PL player for medical device companies.
I think increasingly people see us as a broad-based healthcare partner in China.
And you've seen that in Specialty where we've set up some pharmacies to actually deliver Specialty products direct to patients.
We now have 30 of those direct-to-patient pharmacies in China.
So the growth has been along multiple dimensions.
But again I'd say probably in terms of revenue the primary revenue growth driver is still in the Pharma segment.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
For our next question we go to Garen Sarafian with Citigroup.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Hey George a high level question for you.
In the past you haven't been too enthusiastic about entering the distribution space in some parts of the world as others.
But how does the ongoing consolidation among Pharma manufacturers impact your view and if it's not in M&amp;A how does manufacturer consolidation influence your thinking in any other meaningful way? Good morning Garen.
Manufacturer consolidation is not really a new story.
It's certainly accelerated a lot in the last couple of years both on the branded side and on the generic side.
It probably has not changed our view about the opportunities that we have to grow our business both in the U.S.
and globally.
We look very carefully and I think we've got pretty good experience line of sight and discipline around how we see the opportunities of our markets.
And our relationships with our Pharma and Biotech partners are very deep; like we're talking regularly about opportunities.
So we'll continue to look at opportunities around the world but we'll do it with a very disciplined eye to make sure that we really believe that there's value creation there that we bring something to the table and that it's a necessary growth driver for us.
China's been a great opportunity.
We now have a platform with Cordis to grow certainly on the Medical side in a number of markets and we'll continue to look to see whether or not there are opportunities ex-U.S.
that are attractive to us.
But I do think when we look at service businesses in multiple markets you need to do that with a very very discipline eye; for example Europe is not Europe it's probably got four different kinds of markets inside that broad economy.
And so we'll look very carefully at those and with I think a very experienced set of eyes.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
So it sounds like more of a status quo.
And then secondly you could elaborate a little bit on the Red Oak milestone payment? The $10 million that you mentioned (51:39) you had mentioned that based on the savings that there would be additional milestone payments.
But is this something that is a quarterly payment and is it more of an automatic payment for this amount once the savings have been captured or is it as a percent of savings where this amount could fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter? That's a great question.
Let me give you some color and transparency on this arrangement with CVS Health.
So the way the deal is structured so that at the beginning of FY 2016 there was a milestone where we would do a measurement.
If we were able to exceed that milestone then a $10 million per quarter payment would kick in to CVS.
It's a very binary event.
It's either pass the milestone pay $10 million or you don't and you pay $0.
So there's no proration or anything about it.
It's just either pay the $10 million or you don't.
This milestone is tracked each quarter.
It's run every quarter and so it could theoretically we could pay one quarter and not pay the next.
But our anticipation is that we will pay the $10 million per quarter each quarter this year.
So our payments to be very clear are $35.6 million per quarter for FY 2016.
For FY 2017 then there's another calculation at the beginning of FY 2017.
It is also another binary event.
If we pass that additional milestone we would pay another $10 million per quarter.
And so now it's too early to talk about that milestone we'll wait until the beginning of 2017.
We'll measure it at that time but if it's surpassed again it's a binary event; it would either be $0 or $10 million per quarter additional for 2017.
So our payment could go as high as $45.6 million per quarter starting in FY 2017 and then that would be the maximum for the life of the deal.
There's no other milestones.
There's no other additional payments.
And just also to emphasize there's no adjustments for volume up or down whether CVS wins or brings in more business or Cardinal wins or loses business; it is a fixed payment for the rest of the life of the deal.
And I'd probably just add to that.
The good news is that both of us have been actually contributing nicely to the capacity and the volume going through Red Oak.
So it's been hopefully a rewarding deal for both of us and of course for our customers.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
And a quick follow-up on that milestone though.
Does that milestone  does it become a more difficult milestone per year or does it become an easier bogey to hit just because maybe the low-hanging fruit was captured first so the milestone just becomes easier for  just easier overall? Yeah.
I mean just think about it this way.
It's just again a level of savings and we build it such that you would want us to pay the additional $10 million milestone next year.
And we're again very confident in the execution of Red Oak and we'll get back to you in 2017 as we do the calculation and when we set guidance for 2017 and discuss it.
We'll let you know whether that milestone was achieved.
We go next to Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Hi.
Thanks very much.
I just had a couple of follow-up questions Mike on the guidance as we think about the two different components.
First on the distribution side of the business can you maybe just talk about what your assumptions are around the underlying organic growth? And then secondly I didn't hear you discuss at all margins and how to think about margins in that business as we move towards 2016.
So are you talking specifically about the Pharma segment the Medical segment? Yes.
Let's start with the  like I just want to understand the organic components around each so what are your assumptions for each of them for the underlying organic and then more specifically to the Pharma do you have anything built into your anticipation based on some of the announcements that CVS has made around acquisitions that they're contemplating in your guidance for 2016? Yeah.
I guess...
Go ahead Mike.
So I guess first of all we would not comment on any acquisitions related to CVS other than what comments they've made which is that they fully expect the acquisitions that they do the generics there to be sourced through Red Oak in the future.
But other than that I can't speak to that component of it.
As far as revenue assumptions for the segments on the Pharma side we did talk about really  first of all we expect branded inflation which is a key driver of revenue in the Pharma segment to continue to be similar to what we saw in FY 2015.
We expect to see double digit growth from China and Specialty in the Pharmaceutical segments and we expect to see growth from our existing customers as well as we'll have full-year onboarding of some of the new customers that we won last year.
So those will be the big drivers on the revenue side and we don't guide to margin or margin necessarily rates on the Pharma side but that from a revenue perspective those will be the key drivers for Pharma.
On Medical we're also as we mentioned we're going to see mid- to high-single digit percentage revenue growth versus the prior year and that's going to be driven by growth created from the Cordis acquisition as well as growth in our branded products through some of the internal efforts that we've had to grow those lines launch new products as well as some of the efforts we've had around acquisitions.
All right.
Sorry  what I'm really trying to get at is  so first on the Pharma side what's your expectation in your existing book of business maybe around utilization? So I understand all the components that you talked about with brand and new wins Specialty et cetera but I'm just trying to understand like the core underlying business.
What's your expectations as to where that's growing right now? Lisa let me start first of all good morning.
It's hard to sort of break out underlying business.
Let me give you some general broad perspectives on what we see in the market.
Pharmaceutical utilization continues to go up so prescriptions are going up.
At the moment it appears that we have been outgrowing the market a bit.
That's probably a little bit of increased customers.
It has to do with the way our existing customers are doing in the market.
So the underlying health of that actually looks quite positive.
On the Medical side we're continuing to see a little bit of a trend of movement of care from acute care to ambulatory settings.
So we're not projecting a lot of increased utilization in the acute care setting; although actually if you talk to some hospital systems versus other they're seeing it.
So again it is choppy and it varies from system to system.
But we are seeing a general movement of care into the more ambulatory setting.
So our general position our strategic accounts for example we continue to do very well.
We did well this past year our expectations for the year going forward are positive on that.
So the underlying characteristics of how we're doing in our market to me all sort of go green they look pretty good.
Okay.
And then I think the reason I was asking about the margin expectations are  just is there anything unusual or anything we should be thinking about differently between the two segments because you're not giving guidance around it? Just as we're modeling going into 2016.
So if there's anything you want to call out great.
If it's just kind of what we've seen historically that's fine too.
I'll let Mike start and then I might...
Yeah.
I mean a couple of things I think first of all we'll continue to see growth in the Specialty space like the Hep C drugs which we said have been margin dilutive.
So we would expect to see some continued growth there.
Most of the customer wins that we talked about last year that were margin dilutive are generally being lapped this year.
So we don't have as many  those types of wins like the Catamaran and some of the other business we mentioned last year.
So I wouldn't say there's anything generally different on the Pharma side for the environment.
And then obviously on the Medical side Cordis will have a very positive impact on our margin rates after we get through the $0.13 to $0.15 of inventory fair value step-up Cordis is going to have a significant impact on our margin rates.
But again you're not going to see that until fourth quarter because it will be masked by the step-up.
Exactly.
Let me just again I want to be very specific.
The second part I think that Mike said obviously Cordis has this  once we get to the step-up this impact.
I want to just make sure on the first part of what Mike said what's happening is the revenue growth that's coming from certain kinds of branded products tend to be margin dilutive on a rate basis.
So I just want to make sure  that's the dynamic that I think all of us are dealing with which is when you see the revenue growth from some of these products they can be dilutive to overall segment margins and because of the size of them to total margin rate.
But that's just a by-product of mix.
Yeah.
And remember this growth is very capital efficient for us too and while it might be low-margin rates it does produce dollars very capital efficiently for us.
Thanks.
Operator next question.
We're going to try to keep going to be efficient in the call.
We go next to George Hill with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
Mike I just want to follow up on Lisa's question pretty succinctly just to be clear.
For fiscal 2016 there's no inclusion from servicing Target or servicing Omnicare in the guidance.
Right.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
There is no assumptions for that.
No distribution assumptions for us in our guidance.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then George kind of a crystal ball question for you.
In the last 90 days we've seen a ton of moves on manufacturer consolidation and payer consolidation in the drug supply chain.
If you look forward what do you see around retailer consolidation? You're obviously well positioned with your partnership with CVS maybe outside of the CVS kind of tell us what do you think happens and how do you see Cardinal positioned? Thanks.
That is a great question.
Obviously we've seen extraordinary consolidation in multiple segments across healthcare.
Retailers are pretty consolidated today.
Now again there are going to be areas and again there are others that are probably far more qualified retailers to comment on this.
So there are probably some areas where you could see some.
You might see some for example among mass merchants or grocery combo grocery pharmacy companies.
So I think it's an environment in which we should expect we'll continue to see some movement here.
Again regulatory constraints are always ones that everybody needs to consider in terms of what kind of can't be done here.
But I think we're really well positioned.
Our value proposition to small customers is really strong but our value proposition to these big customers is also actually really good.
And so we fell pretty well positioned.
For our next question we go to David Larsen with Leerink.
Yes congratulations on showing growth in the Medical division's operating income on a year-over-year basis.
Can you maybe just talk about Cordis like maybe the types of products that Cordis sells and how you expect to continue to grow Medical's operating income really sort of in 2H 2016 and then into 2017? And what's sort of most exciting about that asset as it rolls onto your books? Thanks.
Well listen the exciting part about this is really thinking about the evolution of the system.
We've seen and as I highlighted in my comments some really shifting sand in a way procedures are done the way they're compensated the way the reimbursement systems work.
We believe that in a couple of areas cardiovascular being one orthopedics being one wound management being one that there's real efficiency that can be brought to the system.
And that's not just about the products although obviously the acquisition of Cordis really enhances the strength of our product line.
But it's also around the service components that are combined with this.
And so if I'm a provider and I'm now being compensated at a set price for a given procedure and I'm going to be penalized for example for someone returning to the hospital with a complication I'm going to be very conscious of the most efficient way to do that.
How do I bring value how do I make sure that the entire procedure is done in the most efficient way in the best way with the best outcome with the least likelihood of a return visit.
So I think Cordis represents a really unique opportunity.
It has represented a real opportunity to take a major step forward in this.
I'll just add a couple of pieces.
The integration work thus far is going really well and they're recognizing that we're two separate companies still.
And there are certain guard rails that are required.
We've got very strong dedicated integration teams.
They've been fully deployed and the preparation work that we're doing is great.
I would also highlight a really critical factor which is at this point we feel that we basically have the entire management team filled on a global basis.
And this is a group with extremely deep immersion in med tech around specific procedures and real great knowledge of their local markets.
So I think strategically it's a very good fit particularly given some of the trends.
I think our integration work is going well.
And just a reminder which we often have to tell people remember we've been a player in Medical activity in global manufacturing for many years.
And so we have some natural capabilities in this space that I think we'll be able to bring to bear.
Great.
And then just one quick follow up.
With your relationship with CVS I mean is there any ability to grow there especially with Cardinal HomeHealth now that Walgreens is obviously being serviced by a competitor of yours? Thanks.
So again I have to do this carefully.
Our relationship with CVS is great.
We really do believe that we're creating value from one another and we'll continue to look for ways to do that and beyond that it'll be hard to give any more information.
We go next to Eric Percher with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
So maybe just two quick mechanics relative to Cordis and the Medical strategy.
I guess one of those is we had some view that you would look to launch some new areas in ortho and cardio prior to Cordis later this year.
Now with Cordis expected to close in the first quarter do you expect that there'll be a joint launch of a more full bag? Do you wait until Cordis is online for that? I'm not sure what you mean joint launch I'm sorry.
First of all good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Of course.
So as you think about bringing more products to market you talked about having 70% of the ortho bag I believe by the end of the year.
Do you now launch toward the end of the year? Do you wait until Cordis has closed? And do these become Cordis branded products in the future? Yeah.
No.
We're moving forward.
Again think of these a little bit as two separate things.
We've been moving forward on the ortho line.
And I would say in the fall in the trauma specifically we're going to be starting to roll out more effectively.
Cordis we expect to close in Q2 and then that will again that will be its own sort of line of activity.
So I think you can think of them as conceptually they're in the same idea around helping our healthcare partners do this more effectively.
But they really are two distinct lines and they've got their own timelines associated with that.
The only thing I would add to that is you mentioned about the bag and the full bag is that the team has done such an excellent job of launching products organically of where we are  have teams that are launching products.
As I mentioned it's going to be a growth factor for us in the Medical segment.
So we have a very complete bag as it is and continue to grow that bag outside of the just the Cordis acquisition with all the efforts we have going on internally.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
And then the follow-up is relative to getting Cordis stood up outside the U.S.
how much of that will be as a independent Cardinal entity? Will there be much support ongoing from J&amp;J? Yeah.
Good question Eric.
So some of this  it's going to vary by market.
So in some markets we will have a transition services agreement that facilitates the handoff from one to the other.
In other markets we've got some capabilities that are ready and we'll actually be able to fold it in.
And then in some markets we're standing up some activity where that part would've been  J&amp;J needs to keep their existing organization.
We'll do some essentially stand up of let's say an order-to-cash capability in certain markets.
So think of it as three kinds of buckets: one where we just have transition activities one where we stand up some activities where we have existing operations.
Good news is that we have shared goals which is that we want to make sure that we have a common customer who's well-served.
So I think we're well aligned I think with J&amp;J on is.
Operator next question? We go next to Dave Francis with RBC Capital Markets.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Just one real quick one.
George as it relates to China and some of the turmoil that we've seen over there both capital markets and liquidity wise do you guys see any specific risks to the business given some of the economic activity over there in the short term? And conversely does the turmoil create potentially some opportunities that you might not have had otherwise to grow the business through capital deployment? Thanks.
Yeah it's an interesting question and I know we're running late so I'm going to go as quickly as I can.
We really don't see much change in the healthcare market as result of this.
Remember the Chinese government is really committed to getting more of its people access to healthcare and I think that drive continues to be there.
So we continue to feel very optimistic.
As to whether or not this creates new opportunities it's an interesting question and certainly one we're thinking a lot about.
I think we're well-positioned there and healthcare is in a little bit of a different place than what people are seeing in the overall industrial economic conditions.
Operator? We go next to John Ransom with Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Can you hear me? We hear you John.
Inc.</span></strong> It looks at this point like Specialty is about what 8% of your revenue.
I know that was a big focus of yours George when you started with the company a few years ago.
Is that number in line with your goals? Do you think there is a capital efficient way to move the needle up? And I'd just appreciate any other thoughts on that topic.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Hey John.
Well I'd say this we're really encouraged by the rate of growth particularly in the last two years I would say that the first year or two were a little slower than as we told you than we'd like.
But it's begun to ramp pretty nicely.
We will always look for opportunities to strengthen our positions and activities where we think we have a real right to play and win.
Again that doesn't mean you always find those right opportunities but we're growing organically.
We certainly will be open to opportunities that exist in the market to strengthen our positions but nothing specific to point to.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thank you.
Yep.
And we go next to Bob Willoughby with Bank of America.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Quick one.
What's left on the payables and receivables front? You've had some success managing those line items.
And what can you get out of Harvard from a working capital standpoint? Yeah.
I would tell you it was an excellent year on working capital across all of them.
We actually performed well on essentially really every lever: DSO accounts payable receivables inventory et cetera and delivered well on all of those.
And now having said that I still think there's always opportunity in the future for us to do that.
So those will continue to be focus areas for us.
You know that we've always been incredibly attentive to working capital and our balance sheet and that's not going to change.
We're going to continue to have a focus in all those areas.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Can you size the Harvard opportunity though inventory-wise? I mean it wouldn't be material in the sense of inventory dollars to the overall organization.
So really can't size it but there's nothing there that I would point to that would be a driver.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank Bob.
Next question? And we go next to John Kreger with William Blair.
Hi.
Thanks very much.
I had a follow-up question on the Medical business.
If you look at your branded products portfolio as it exists now what sort of organic growth are you getting? So again this varies period to period.
We continue to grow this and I'm not sure that we've given specific rates.
I will share with you that we're outgrowing the market and I would expect that over these coming years those numbers are going to continue to increase.
Thanks George.
And maybe along the same lines so once you get through the noise of the first half of fiscal 2016 and Cordis drops in what sort of normalized growth do you think you can get out of the Medical segment on the bottom line longer term? What sort of objectives do you have? Yeah again we're not providing any new long-term guidance John.
Here's what I would say we've got  I've told you last quarter and as we highlighted a little bit of this upcoming first quarter.
We had to get sort of a couple of lumpy things here.
The general characteristics of the growth drivers in that Medical business feel really right.
Like we feel like we've got the talent we've got very clear goals internally and how we're going to go after those.
We think we're aligned with trends in the market.
So as we start to come to the year-end fiscal 2016 I start to feel sort of a more normalized rate of progress there.
And as I said I like that portfolio and how it's shaping up.
And I really do think we can leverage the strength that we've had historically in Med Surge by driving these lines of business and products.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
You're welcome.
And for our final question we go to Steven Valiquette with UBS.
All right.
Thanks.
Good morning George and Mike.
Good morning.
So just a few kind of quick rapid fire questions.
First on the Red Oak I just want to confirm that the JV should be accretive to your earnings every quarter within FY 2016 relative to the size of the payments hopefully there's no annual resets or on the mechanics or something that would cause them to have big seasonal fluctuation just want to confirm that first.
Yeah.
There's still no issue related to that.
Okay.
And then quickly on Medical I'm not sure if you hit this or not but one of your peers earlier this week disclosed a meaningfully-sized contract loss for later this year.
Just curious if you guys were maybe on the winning end of that or if that maybe went to another competitor? Yeah.
It's improper for us to comment on someone else's call here.
So for yeah hard to comment on this.
Certainly if we had something that we need to say that's material to us we'll try to make sure that we highlight it.
But again I probably can't comment beyond that.
Okay.
And finally a real quick one for the $0.15 Harvard accretion can you remind us just roughly how much of that again is just financially driven purely on your financing costs versus the EBITDA you're bringing in the door versus how much is more synergy-driven? Just a rough approximation on the breakdown of that through this upcoming fiscal year.
Thanks.
Sure.
So again the accretion we expect to be at least $0.15 there's $0.03 to $0.04 of interest expense against that.
And we expect the synergies to not only come from the sourcing side but also we think we have some real efficiencies in the way we run the business.
There are some cost synergies between the various telemarketing businesses we have.
We have some incredibly good metrics and analytics around our calls and pricing in those types of things.
So it comes from several different areas where we just have a team that has a great history of execution in this area.
Okay.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks Steve.
Thank you.
I think...
And with that ladies and gentlemen we have no further questions on our roster.
Therefore I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
George Barrett for closing remarks.
Hey folks I know it's been a long call.
So we'll conclude by thanking all of you for joining us this morning.
We look forward to seeing all of you in the very near future.
Thanks again.
And again ladies and gentlemen this will conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.