Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the CB Richard Ellis First Quarter Earnings Call.
Today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Nick Kormeluk.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to CB Richard Ellis' First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Last night we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
This release is available on the home page of our website at www.cbre.com.
This conference call is being webcast live and is available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Also available is a presentation slide deck which you can use to follow along with our prepared remarks.
An archived audio of the webcast a transcript and a PDF version of the slide presentation will be posted to the website later today.
Please turn to the slide labeled forward-looking statements.
This presentation contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements regarding our future growth momentum operations financial performance business outlook and ability to complete and integrate our announced acquisition of ING REIM.
These statements should be considered as estimates only and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Except to the extent required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forward-looking statements that you may hear today.
Please refer to our First Quarter Earnings report filed on Form 8-K and our current Annual Report on Form 10-K in particular any discussion of risk factors or forward-looking statements which are filed with the SEC and available at the SEC’s website www.sec.gov for a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any estimates that you may hear today.
We may make certain statements during the course of this presentation which include references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations.
As required by these regulations we have provided reconciliations of these measures to what we believe are the most directly comparable GAAP measures which are attached hereto within the appendix.
Please turn to slide #3.
Our management team members participating with me today are Brett White our Chief Executive Officer; and Gil Borok our Chief Financial Officer.
I’ll now hand the call off to Brett.
Thank you Nick.
Good morning everyone.
Please turn to slide 4.
This past quarter we purchased very strong revenue and earnings growth across our business with revenue gains of 16% for the company and much better growth in normalized EBITDA.
Our revenue growth was aided by the continued recovery in the commercial real estate market and continued strong fundamental in our outsourcing business.
Normalized EBITDA grew 38% in the first quarter of 2011 versus the first quarter of 2010 and diluted adjusted earnings per share for the first quarter of 2011 was $0.13 as compared to $0.01 for the first quarter of 2010.
As you might recall from our fourth quarter 2010 earnings call in the second half of 2010 we restored a significant portion of our US based compensation related expenses that were cut during the downturn due a stronger than expected first year recovery.
In addition in EMEA in the fourth quarter of 2010 and continuing in the first quarter of 2011 we have aggressively hired producers and related support in anticipation of improving transaction based revenues.
We believe that these personnel addition will serve as well in future quarters as our revenue pipelines are generally strong and operating leverage in this region should improve as the year progresses.
Our principal businesses performed very well during the quarter with strong revenue increases accompanied by lower expenses in Investment Management and gains of $12.9 million of the sale of three properties in the Development business.
The recovery and expansion in the global commercial real estate market continued at the rate consistent with early stage recovery in prior cycles.
We like what we see in the market and are very excited about our opportunity to leverage our unique and industry-leading platform to produce outside gain for our investors and terrific outcomes for our clients.
Some of the more note worthy transactions we completed during or immediately following the quarter are listed in slide#5.
As usual I will not go through them individually but have included down to show some business wins.
I will now turn the call over Gil to go with the financial results in detail.
Thank you Brett.
Please advance to slide 6.
Revenue was $1.2 billion for the quarter of 2011 up 16% from last years first quarter.
This increase resulted from improvement in nearly all business lines.
Normalized EBITDA was up 38% to $120.6 million in the quarter from $87.5 million in the first quarter of 2010 delivering a normalized EBITDA margin of 10.2% a 170 basis point increase versus the first quarter of 2010.
Our cost of services as a percentage of revenue remained almost even at 60.2% in the first quarter of 2011 versus 60% in the first quarter of 2010 primarily due to compensation re-instatements in the US and a notable hiring in EMEA in anticipation of improving transaction base revenues that Brett alluded to earlier.
In the first quarter of 2011 operating expenses as a percent of total revenue dropped by a 120 basis points to 31.8% versus 32% in the first quarter of 2010 despite 2010 restatements affecting this line item which is indicative of effective cost control in the indirect and support areas of our business.
Over the past two years we have spoken with you about our expectation of adding back a projected $120 million to $150 million to our run rate cost structure against our 2007 base as revenue increases during the recovery.
Cumulatively since the first quarter of 2010 we have added back approximately $135 million of such cost and it is likely that we will exceed the upper end of our projected range in 2011 as revenues which these cost support have already increase significantly more than what we anticipated when we originally made the projection.
However the incremental costs should have minimal bottom line impact as they were mitigated by the revenue growth they support.
Interest expense decrease by $16.1 million in the first quarter of 2011 versus the first quarter of 2010 due to a net reduction in outstanding debt in the second half of 2010.
Our first quarter 2011 tax rate was approximately 41% and we expect it to be slightly below to this full year 2011.
First quarter 2011 GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.11 versus a loss of $0.02 last year.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.13 versus $0.01 cent in the first quarter of 2010.
Please turn to slide 7.
Property and Facility Management was our largest service line in the first quarter of 2011 representing 40% of total revenue in the quarter inline with the prior first quarter.
Leasing was our second largest service line in the first quarter of 2011 posting an 8% increase versus the first quarter of 2010.
It represented 30% percent of total company revenue in the first quarter of 2011.
Sales revenue continued its strong recovery with a growth of 34% in the first quarter of 2011 a significant increase following an increase of 51% in the first quarter of 2010 versus the first quarter of 2009.
This resulted from the continued strength of Class A property sales along with noticeable improvement in the sales of other property classes and more favorable financing conditions.
Appraisal &amp; Valuation revenue was up 8% in the first quarter of 2011 as compared to the first quarter of 2010.
This was driven by continued strength in capital market activities in the quarter.
Global Investment Management revenue increased 26% year-over-year driven by increases in asset management and acquisition fees.
Commercial Mortgage Brokerage posted an increase of 79% driven loan originations for US government sponsored enterprises as well as significant improvement on the part of traditional and conduit lenders.
Development services fee revenue was down 2%.
Revenue from property and service management fees for assets under management loan servicing fees and leasing commissions from existing clients are all largely recurring  This revenue represented approximately 60% of total revenue for the first quarter of 2011.
Please turn to slide 8.
The outsourcing business growth rate accelerated this quarter posting an increase of 14% versus the first quarter of 2010 the strongest year-over-year quarterly increase since the third quarter of 2008.
This was driven by the strong new account growth and client expansion we experienced throughout 2010.
In the first quarter a record of 44 total long term contract was signed.
This far exceeds the previous quarterly record which was 34.
We signed 13 new accounts 22 renewals and 9 expansions.
Our performance this quarter was strong across all geographies of all regions posting double digits percentage revenue gain.
Fundamentals in this business continue to be favorable with increasing corporate spending and a start of job growth evidence.
The resulting revenue pipeline is healthy with a focus on global portfolios and penetration in to new segments such as healthcare and government.
Overall our global portfolio of commercial property and corporate facilities under management totaled 2.7 billion square feet at the end of the first quarter an increase of 17% from the first quarter of 2010.
Slide 9 demonstrates the stabilizing or improving vacancy rates and absorption through first quarter of 2011 and our forecasted improvements for full year 2011 and 2012.
Average national CAP rates improved meaningfully in the first quarter of 2011 versus the first quarter of 2010 driven by Class A property sale.
These top tier assets continue to trade actively at CAP rate between 4.75% and 6% while financing has also continued to improve.
Please turn to slide 10.
The recovery of America sales market continued in the first quarter of 2011 as our revenue for the first quarter increased 38% on a year–over-year basis after 51% increase in the first quarter of 2010 versus the first quarter of 2009.
Our market share totaled 15.3% of all activity for the first quarter of 2011 ranking at no.
1 according to Real Capital Analytics.
Our Americas leasing revenue posted an 8% increase in the first quarter of 2011 as compared to the first quarter of 2010.
This comes on the heels of 20% increase in the first quarter of 2010 versus the first quarter for 2009.
The US office vacancy rate decreased by 10 basis point to 16.4% from the fourth quarter of 2010.
Net absorption in US office product was possible again and this had a slightly positive impact on vacancy rate.
Please turn to slide 11.
Our investment sales revenue in EMEA increased by 12% in the first quarter of 2011 as compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Activity was led by France and Germany.
In the United Kingdom sales revenue was slightly down from the first quarter of 2010 in part due to the timing of several deals shifting to the second quarter.
CBRE’s revenue from leasing and EMEA grew modest 1% in the first quarter of 2011 versus the first quarter of 2010.
This was respectable considering the fiscal strain that continues within the euro zone and given the 25% increase in leasing revenue in the first quarter of 2010 versus the first quarter of 2009.
Please turn to slide 12.
CBRE sales revenue in Asia Pacific increased by 57% in the first quarter of 2011 versus the first quarter of 2010.
The increase was especially notable given it was generated on top of a 123% increase in the fist quarter of 2010 versus the first quarter of 2009.
Our leasing revenue in Asia Pacific grew 15% in the first quarter versus the first quarter of 2010.
The strongest growth came from Australia and New Zealand China India as well as Japan.
The region suffered its share of natural disasters this quarter with floods in Australia and the Japanese earthquakes.
It proved surprisingly resilient from a financial performance standpoint and while we remain cautious with regard to our near term expectations for the locations directly affected we do not believe that a future material may have impact on company performance is likely.
Please turn to slide 13.
Revenue for the Development Services segment was $19.2 million in the first quarter of 2011 versus $18.3 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Operating is also the first quarter of 2011 for this segment included normalized EBITDA of $13.5 million a substantial improvement over the first quarter of 2010 normalized EBITDA of $5.6 million.
The improvement in normalized EBITDA was driven by gains from several property sales.
At March 31 2011 in process development totaled $4.9 billion unchanged from December 31 2010 and up $200 million from the $4.7 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2010.
The pipeline at March 31 2011 increased to $1.5 billion up $300 million from year end 2010 and $600 million from the end of the first quarter of 2010 which is an early sign of an improving environment.
At the end of the first quarter our equity co-investments in the development services business totaled $71.2 million.
Please turn to slide 14.
The Global Investment Management segment's revenue was up 30% to $51.4 million in the first quarter of 2011 from $39.4 million in the first quarter of 2010 including revenue from discontinued operations of $1 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Increased fees for assets under management acquisition fees and rental income all contributed to the revenue increase.
Assets under management totaled $37.9 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2011 which was slightly higher than the $37.6 billion under management at the year-end 2010.
During the first quarter we competed approximately $900 million of acquisitions and approximately $300 million of dispositions globally.
Currency fluctuations increased the portfolio by approximately $500 million.
Year-to-date 2011 we have raised new capital of approximately $200 million and had approximately $1.7 billion of capital to deploy at the end of the quarter.
Our current investments in this business at the end of the quarter total $98.5 million.
As it relates the ING REIM we have made very good progress reluctant to closing requirements for the transaction the process of obtaining partner and lender consensus well underway.
All anti-trust (inaudible).
The proposed senior leadership structure has been established and we continue to expect the transaction with close in the second half of the year.
Our Global Investment Management EBITDA reconciliation detail is shown on slide 15.
In the first quarter of 2011 we incurred $7.5 million of expenses related to the ING REIM acquisition predominantly for legal and other professional services.
In the first quarter of 2011 we reported $1 million of carried interest compensation expense which relates to the gains expected in future period.
As of March 31 2011 the company maintains a cumulative accrual of carried interest compensation expense of approximately $21 million which (inaudible) the anticipated future carried interest revenue.
EBITDA was positively impacted by higher fees for assets under management acquisition fees and lower expenses.
Prior EBITDA included $4.5 million of net non-cash right down of property investments.
This business operated at a normalized EBITDA margin of 28% for the first quarter of 2011.
Please turn to slide 16.
Slide 16 shows an amortization and debt maturity reschedule for all outstanding debt.
During the first quarter of 2011 we entered into various six month forward stock interest rate swap agreements with a total notional amount of $400 million.
This action is intended to hedge against the variable interest rates of our term loan facilities.
These swap agreements will terminate in 2018 and 2019 and have a weighted average effective interest rate of approximately 6.4%.
Debt financing for ING REIM was completed in the first quarter with two delayed draw tranches of debt each totaling $400 million with terms of LIBOR 3.25 and 3.50 respectively and no LIBOR floor.
The new tranche C is due in 2018 and the new tranche D is due in 2019.
They both amortize at 1% per annum.
We are still evaluating whether or not we will utilize the ATM equity raise authorized by our board of directors for the ING REIM acquisition.
As you can see we have and we will continue to have post the ING financing a very balanced maturity schedule that has not become meaningful until 2015.
Please turn to slide 17.
Excluding our non-recourse real estate loans and mortgage brokerage warehouse facility our total net debt at the end of the first quarter of 2011 was $1.1 billion.
This represents an increase from year end 2010 primarily due to seasonal needs driven by incentive compensation payments.
At March 31 2011 our weighted average interest rate was approximately 6.4% slightly lower than the 6.5% at the end of 2010.
Our leverage ratio on a covenant basis now stands at 1.07 times at the end of the first quarter of 2011 on a trailing twelve months basis.
Our total company net debt to EBITDA stood at 1.49 times which remains below our current target of 2 times.
I will now turn the call back over to Brett.
Thank you Gil.
Please turn to slide 18.
We continue to believe that we are in the early stages of our protracted recovery in the commercial real estate cycle and that traditional industry growth rates are sustainable.
Recent outsourcing revenue growth and our contract win rate leaves us optimistic on its prospects for 2011.
Investments sales continue to show good gains and do not show signs of slowing in the near term.
Leasing continues to post solid growth on top of a stellar recovery in 2010 during which we believe we increased our share of market.
We are now more optimistic regarding our expectations for the global investment management and development services businesses.
We continue to target peak of cycle EBITDA margin of 20% for the company and will actually manage the business to get there.
We continue to expect earnings to be in the range of $0.95 to $1.05 per share for the full year 2011.
Operator we will now take questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Anthony Paolone of JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
A question on the incremental cost that you think seem to be coming back.
Can you give a census to exactly what those items are like what costs are going up and where is that money being spent.
Hi it's Gil.
Those costs are somewhat narrow in scope but it has to do with hiring of direct producers in our fixed cost countries so in EMEA in particular and in support of those producers.
It’s more on the direct side than on the indirect side of the business and then some cost associated with support of growing revenues.
So a little bit of travel with this promotion that sort of thing in support of revenue growth.
So is it fair to characterize these incremental items as being purely revenue driven or some of this coming by way of the environment becoming more competitive? No I think it is all revenue driven and we’ve always said and then we have always managed and continue to manage our costs relative to the revenue line.
We are very focused on that side.
So I would say it is 100% revenue driven.
In terms of just the competitive landscape more broadly can you comment on how you see share playing out in the next year given how much share you picked up over the downturn particularly as it relates to recently you had mentioned that the comps are tougher and you have had some gains but you picked up a lot of share and that’s something you are going to have to comp against going forward? Sure Anthony this is Brett.
You know and I’m sure you have looked at the public data that is in the market place regarding leasing in 2010.
You saw that we expanded our share in leasing business both nationally and we believe that are hard to calculate globally.
We expect that in 2011 that those share gains will flow through to revenues and we are beginning to see some of that now.
We are very optimistic about 2011’s prospects on leasing even more optimistic for 2012 and 2013.
You saw in the statistics that Gill spoke to a few moments ago that vacancy continue to drop absorption continues to pick up and more importantly in the forecast like that Gil referenced you can see that we expect those trends to accelerate in the coming 24 months.
So as the growth leader in commercial leasing business we expect our lead to not only maintain the gain and we are confident we will do exactly that.
Do you think the 8% year-over-year leasing comp in the first quarter you can do better over the course of this year?  Is that fair to say because the first quarter was simply pretty tough comp?  First of all first quarter is a very small quarter so a small number of significant deals can swing first quarter numbers fairly significantly.
For instance if you go back just one quarter to the fourth quarter and you put the fourth and first quarters together you see a very different story.
You see very-very strong leasing growth for the firm for those two quarters.
If topping this business Anthony and it’s a little dangerous to draw too many conclusions from a single quarter and I would just again say that look very very happy with where we sit in leasing share leasing revenues and most importantly leasing profits.
Then I just have a question on the facility side two part questions on facilities.
Your focus on government and healthcare seems to have worked.
How far into that do you think you are?  Do you think there is a lot left to go there? Quite a bit left to go there.
We are in those markets and we have dedicated and highly specialized teams exploiting those markets but our expectation of those markets is early days.
I think there is enormous amount of clear space there to attack.
I think this is something you will see in our business and in others businesses in the years to come.
These are big spaces that are fairly new to the big services firms.
We have all had niche teams in those phases as you know (inaudible) Development Company has long-long history in particularly the healthcare space.
We all see healthcare as a rapidly growing even more so now rapidly growing industry and therefore much more light for services businesses also government whether you like it or not government is going in a great big way and we also want to take advantage of that as we have and as you saw that Anthony really terrific results that came out of the Northern Virginia and Washington DC last year continued on to this year.
Those are probably the tightest and mostly active leasing markets in the country all government driven.
Can you give us a sense of the 13 outsourcing contracts that you picked up in the quarter can you give us a sense as to what the average revenue add if for one of these contracts magnitude-wise? No I can't.
We don’t quote it that way.
If I have to really give you an average I'll give you an absolute number which I am not going to do.
There is no average deal.
They're all very different.
I would only say that as we get close to now 3 billion square feet commercial property being managed either in our Institutional Asset Management Group or Corporate Outsourcing Group this business has become a mammoth business for CBRE.
It's been part of our strategy if you know Anthony for many years.
To be the market leader in that space which we clearly are and to build a dominant franchise in space which we've clearly done.
We believe that outsourcing space is a great place for this firm to take advantage of the platform that we've built both the outsourcing platform but also transactional evaluation mortgage platform and I think you should expect to see good growth in that business for some time to come.
We are very pleased with those results.
Our next question comes from Sloan Bohlen from Goldman Sachs.
First a question for Brett or Gil on the operating leverage.
You talked about the incremental cost coming back in the $135 million relative to the $600 million cut out.
should we think of some upper limit on that so when the operating leverage kicks back in or should it be one for one as revenues grows we could see more of those costs come back?  Yes if you look at the quarter there's significant operating leverage in the quarter from a variety of sources and I would say that the expectation is that that would continue.
So the reason for the comments that I made relative to the range is because of the acceleration of the revenue versus what we originally projects.
So they will move just as I addressed the earlier call from Anthony they will sort of move inline is our projection but we've always talked about the possibility of $150 million at a latter date at in my mind it was a few years out but the revenue numbers have exceeded our expectations and so we've got to modify the projection.
I don’t want to put out a limit on it because I just don’t have that visibility.
Bigger picture question for Brett just the growth in the mortgage brokerage business relative to sales and obviously a smaller portion but do you feel like there's maybe greater opportunity in one versus the other based on how pending commercial real estate debt maturities are being dealt with meaning are more things being expended versus assets trading in? I think that’s certainly part of it Sloan.
There's no question that the financing market is going to be active regardless whether properties change hands or not because you've learned as you well said you learn for the maturing.
In the short run and the long run we see these two businesses as part of the same space its investment capital market space and we have skilled professionals doing both those things for the same client.
We pitch these things together.
We many times win those opportunities together and so we look at it -- we break it out for you this way we look at it really as one large capital markets activity which has enormous potential over the next few years as the sale market begins to return.
So I don’t want to say that one goes up one goes down because I think they both go up but certainly in this environment you put your finger on a very valid point which is there's a lot of refinancing going on in a market with out a lot of sales and as sales pick while the refinancings go away those sales of current mortgages as well.
So I think the mortgage business very bright future short term long term the sales business you know up hugely in the first quarter and we believe for full year again in 2011 but of small numbers.
That sale business has got a lot of room for some pretty aggressive roads in the coming two to three years.
Then may be just one more if I could the question on market share just where you are seeing the highest level of competition in terms of either pay for brokers or where your competitors are trying to add scale? Sure.
Well there's a lot ways to grow a share.
You can buy it and that’s great and you are not popping your revenues but I think our investors are much more focused on profitability.
So where we're refocused on growing share is leverage our platform is on-boarding clients profitably and building expense behind as Gil said don’t expense behind our producers profitably.
We don’t subscribe to a strategy of buying share to punish margins and you just know that.
Where we were seeing competition in the market place is where we focused and where we focused is capturing new clients.
We don’t spend a lot of time chasing down big ticket very expensive themes from competitors.
We are not sure that I am not sure that really fits our model too well but there is definitely lot of competition out there.
There is a lot of competition probably the client that hits the market both from the multinational global competitor that we have but even more so from the many many terrific smaller competitors that exist in every market.
Going to Anthony’s question earlier again I wouldn’t read too much in to out first quarter number.
I pay a lot more attention to longer term trends.
Longer term trends are that we are very very pleased with the size with the ability and most importantly the profitability of our leasing business both here in the States and globally.
We have a question from (inaudible) from JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Question on the reiterated guidance of $0.95 to a $1.05 just wanted to understand the impact of the ING acquisition?  I will let Gil take that.
Yes.
Depending on where it closes and we have said in the second half if we will have an impact of what ING will have on the business for 2011 and what we have said previously is that we will have a moderate impact in 2011 and we haven’t really commented on the 2012 it is too early to say and we wouldn’t do that at this point anyway.
So I think just based on timing it is not going to be hugely impactable to the P&amp;L in 2011.
Just related to cost coming back I just wanted to better understanding of how what we kind of consider to be a successful containment of cost so far on exploring revenue growth how you manage to do that?  If you can identify some key factors anything that provided high level of success.
Sure.
Let me take the first part of that now turn over to the door of cost expert Mr.
Borok to give you that data but I think the place to start for that discussion is just corporate philosophy.
As you know as our analyst and investors know we have had a mandate for over a decade of driving the highest margins in our industry in both good markets and poor markets and we do that by having a very rigid discipline around management cost.
We manage cost in comp we manage cost and T&amp;E we manage cost in technology.
We are very careful around making those investments that are necessary to produce revenues and not making investments that we think are not profitable for the firm.
When I get to ask about cost pretend like if every body is it is just part of culture here.
We are very very focused on having a highly profitable business quarter in quarter out year in year out and all of our managers and even our beginners out in the field understand that embrace that know that on that.
At end of the day the score board that matters over everything else is margin and profitability.
Nothing else is even close to as important as those two metrics.
Why those two metrics are important is that’s what investors care about as they should.
So driving that profitability driving that margin is the big game for us and we obviously like the position we have there.
Gil? I don’t know if there’s a lot more for me to add.
I mean I think that I could say it a little differently but the same message which is the cost is measured vis-à-vis revenue growth and vis-à-vis support of revenue growth and what matters is the result of those two which is the bottom line EBITDA and margin.
If you had some specifics on the numbers can you just say that again and I’ll see if I can address it.
No I think I just wanted to know if that was you know if you could if there’s also a implementation aside from the culture and a mandate from senior management if there is something else related to technology consolidation of certain segments that you can necessarily point to so to get a better understanding of that.
Yes the only thing that I would add is just to your point there is we talked that was for years that this is a very scalable platform.
So we have an ability to onboard revenues in our own market but couldn’t add without a direct onboarding of cost in some cases.
So we can bring on more assignments in the business many times at a very high incremental margin and we talked about we talk about an aspiration of an EBITDA margin of 20% which has never been done in this industry for many firm of any size.
We are confident that we can get there and that’s as much about scale as it is about anything else.
It has cost us one for certain results of scale and if this business continues to grow you should expect us continue to accrete margin and improve profitability.
We have a question from Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Please go ahead.
A couple of big picture questions and a couple of small picture questions.
Big picture-wise how does the client mix look these days with investment sales? Have we seen a big shift towards REITs away from REITs towards corporate or away from corporates? If there is a little shift does not make a more or less comparable for the pace of your business? The mix of the business continues to move towards large institutional players in the capital market and that shift is highly advantageous to our firm.
We’re a big company firm.
We do exceptionally well working with large institutions we have great relationships there; and that shift continues in the investment property sales business and accelerated I believe in the last twelve months as there has been an almost complete lack of financing available.
That has really knocked out of the business the mid-tier players the high net worth individuals who require financing and at the same time has highly advantaged the large institutions that can either create greater financing bridge financing or don’t need financing.
So that’s what the long term trend that’s been the standard for business for many years that’s also been accelerated the last couple of years.
As the market stabilizes as financing becomes available then you should see a larger entry back in investment property space of high net worth individuals partnerships and so forth.
Just to be clear REITs and corporations are a very small component of the overall investment property market.
It’s really all about institutional investors and owners.
In terms of the leasing business I guess trying to get a sense of the breadth right now we’re still concentrated in the downtown markets or how much broadening have you seen buy as the property type or by geography the last couple of quarters? The improvement in the leasing business is really what or where the improving is occurring is really what I think you’re referring to.
Again the broadening of the business our platform is ubiquitous.
We are everywhere the high quality leasing business occurs and we’re usually the dominant firm in every one of those markets but the improvement in the leasing business has been very typical for early stage recovery which is it tends to improve first in the very very largest financial services major urban market places.
This last current cycle or the current cycle that we were in for the US as I mentioned earlier DC Northern Virginia was exceptionally strong given the growth of government but there is no question that we saw leasing recover first in the big markets New York City Washington DC Northern Virginia and some of the West Coast markets Chicago and so forth.
That improvement is here I can tell you for certain is between January 1 2011 and January 1 2013 that improvement will move from a small number of large markets to virtually every market.
Where we are in that growth of the improvement I can only tell you at the moment that we don’t have a date in front of me I think it is fare to say that all markets now are beginning to move towards recovery just on more quickly than others.
The question I am not sure for you or better for Gil but how do you think about the contribution the balance of the year from acquisition base and investor management this quarter a good proxy or should we think acceleration of those pieces profit line? Gil do you want to take that? As you know Brandon it is hard to say because it is dependent to some degree on a transaction activity but I would not put a number and I would not say 'Gee it is going to you know equal the first quarter or something like that ' but I would say is my sentence there will be improvement in each quarter verses the prior.
I say that with a little bit of caution because it is like predicting when the sales transaction will close or leasing transaction will close because it is dependent on property level activity acquisitions primarily but we are in that phase where there are funds that are acquiring and that generates those type of fees.
(Operator Instructions).
Ridley-Lane with Merrill Lynch please go ahead.
Just maybe a comment on your broker headcount trends and then maybe where you are thinking of people’s productivity levels are relative to a sort of hypothetical normalize level? Sure our broker headcount numbers don't move much.
In fact I made this comment before.
If you look at a long-term study of our broker headcount what you would find is that our broker headcount in United States for example is actually down from where it was many years ago on a normalized basis for acquisitions.
The reason for that is as the business has matured over many years the quality of brokers has increased and firms like ours and other have been able to migrate towards higher quality higher more productive brokers every year and to weed out those are less productive because the more productive ones can take on all their business and more.
The productivity of the brokers right now and may be another way to say your question is the capacity of those brokers to do additional work.
I do not want to put a percent capacity that are right now but I think it is fare to say that there has an enormous amount of capacity in the system right now to onboard additional revenues.
If you think about this way the think about a high-ticket broker in New York City who last year billed $10 million in fees that if they are a sale broker that might have been 10 or 12 transactions they are leasing broker that may be was 15 or 20.
The amount of work that would be required to add four deals on the investment property side or four deals on the leasing side incrementally is not that significant and those brokers do not require much of any additional support to do those transactions.
So all that to say that we have never in our history have way we thought with maximum capacity of our sales force.
I do not know what that number would be we have never seen it.
They always have an ability to do more and I would just say that we are on a long ways away from that point at the movement.
May be just some color on lending standards and credit availability with the respect to the investment sales business? Sure.
Credit is loosening slowly.
It’s a very incremental process there’s been no great change and the fourth quarter other than its a little bit better and the fourth quarter was a little bit better than third quarter and so on and so forth.
The return of credit to the commercial real estate asset class is going to be a slow process and yet it’s a process that I don’t believe can be diverted.
In other words credible continue to loosen and lending will continue to improve in the commercial real estate asset class as the health of the asset class improves.
Frankly it's quite impressive to see the amount of business occurring in the sales side of that outside class given how difficult the credit is to obtain the underwriting is incredibly stringent.
It really eliminates the majority of borrower from being able to tap the credit market.
So as I mentioned earlier you see a investment property market right now dominated by firms who are not dependent on easy credit.
Those firms that are really not active at the moment.
This is the trend that will continue to improve over time but I think an improvement take an other two or three years to get back to what we will consider a normal set of play.
Also begun contact 2007 and 2006 was not normal normal state of play is something tighter in terms of lending standards that we saw then but something much much more benevolent or support that we don’t see right now.
At this time there are no further questions in queue.
Please proceed.
Great.
Well a good start to the year.
I appreciate your support your time on the call we will talk to you next quarter.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to CB Richard Ellis's second quarter earnings call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session; instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded and I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Nick Kormeluk.
Thank you and welcome to CB Richard Ellis's second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Last night we issued a press announcing our financial results.
This release is available on the home page of our website at www.cbre.com.
This conference call is being webcast live and is available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Also available is a presentation slide deck which you can use to follow along with our prepared remarks.
An archived audio of the webcast a transcript and a PDF version of the slide presentation will be posted to the website later today.
Please turn to the slide labeled forward-looking statements.
This presentation contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements regarding our future growth momentum operations financial performance business outlook and the ability to complete and integrate our announced acquisition of the ING REIM businesses in Europe and Asia.
These statements should be considered as estimates only and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Except to the extent required by applicable security system update or publically revise any of these forward looking statement that you may hear today.
Please refer to our Second Quarter Earnings report filed on Form 8-K our current Annual Report on Form 10-K and our current quarterly report on form 10-Q.
In particular any discussion of risk factors or forward-looking statements which are filed with the SEC and available at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov for a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any estimates that you may hear today.
We may make certain statements during the course of this presentation which include references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations.
As required by these regulations we have provided reconciliations of these measures to what we believe are the most directly comparable GAAP measures which are attached to slide three.
Our management team members participating with me today are Brett White our Chief Executive Officer; and Gil Borok  I’ll now hand the call off to Brett.
Thank you Nick and please turn to slide 4.
We are very pleased with our revenue growth of 21% in the second quarter of 2011 versus the second quarter of 2010.
This clearly demonstrates the underlying strength of the recovery of our business and our industry.
Our revenue growth was strong across all geographies and was particularly notable in our leasing investment sales and outsourcing business.
Routine revenues increased to 22% with each geography positing growth with at least 15% over the second quarter of 2010.
This performance comes against a backdrop of gradually improving market conditions evidenced by falling vacancy and an uptick in rents in many parts of the World.
These conditions have prompted more companies to lock in long-term occupancy at today’s relatively low market rents.
Investment sales revenues increased 44% lead by the Americas and Asia specific.
Market activity accelerated very strongly in the US during the quarter due to increase demand for core assets in prime markets a broadening of investor appetite for properties in secondary markets and improved access for low-cost financing.
Outsourcing revenues increased 13% with double digit contributions from all geographies.
We continued to see more and more companies embrace outsourcing solutions as a means of lowering cost and remaining competitive in a slow growth economic environment.
Demand remains high for global mandates and is growing in Europe and Asia where outsourcing is a newer concept.
Normalized EBITDA increased to $172 million from $165 million.
It is important to note that in second quarter 2010 development services normalized EBITDA was $19 million greater than in the second quarter of 2011 predominantly resulting from outside gains from property sales.
In addition in the second quarter of 2011 we recorded $5.3 million of carried interest compensation expense due to the expectations of future profits from a fund in the invest management business.
These items negatively impacted quarter of a quarter normalized EBITDA comparisons in an absolute amount of $24 million.
In the absence of these two items our normalized EBITDA growth would have been 22%.
Our normalized EBITDA margin was 12.1% while the prior year normalized EBITDA margin was 14.1% had it not been for the two aforementioned items normalized EBITDA margin would have been approximately 12.5% in both years.
Despite an uneven and somewhat subdued global economic recovery and a heightening of debt concerns in Europe during the last few months we are pleased to observe continued commercial real estate recovery in the second quarter of 2011 as evidenced by our very strong revenue growth.
We continued to be mindful of the potential impact of any real or perceived economic weakness and we continue to believe that the future timing and magnitude of the commercial real estate recovery is linked to the broader economic recovery.
Some of the more impressive transactions we completed during or immediately following the quarter are listed on slides 5.
As usual I will not go through them individually but have included them to show some key business wins.
I will now turn the call over Gil to go over the financial deck.
Thanks Brett.
Please advance to slide 6.
Revenue was $1.4 billion for the second quarter of 2011 up 21% from last year.
This increase resulted from improvement in nearly all business lines.
Normalized EBITDA was up 4% to $172.4 million in the second quarter of 2011 from $165.2 million in the second quarter of 2010 delivering a normalized EBITDA margin of 12.1%.
As Brett just mentioned excluding the impact of the outsize development services gains in the prior year and the carried interest expense in the current year normalized EBITA would have grown by 22% and normalized EBITA margin would have been approximately 12.5% in both years.
Our cost of services as a percentage of revenue increased to 59.1% in the second quarter of 2011 as compared to 57.9% in the second quarter of 2010.
This was primarily due to US based compensation re-instatements to previous session levels at the tail-end of the second quarter 2010 as well as select hiring predominantly in EMEA in 2010 and early 2011 in anticipation of improving transaction revenues and in support of new initiatives and recently won contracts.
Despite an absolute increase in operating expenses and support of revenue growth the impact of compensation re-instatements and the aforementioned carried interest expense; second quarter 2011 operating expenses as a percent of total revenue dropped by 130 basis points to 30.4% versus 31.7% in the second quarter of 2010.
This is indicative of affective cost control in the indirect and support areas of our business.
Interest expense decreased by $16.1 million in the second quarter of 2011 as compared to the second quarter of 2010 primarily due to a more than $600 million reduction in outstanding debts in the second half of 2010 and lower interest rate resulting from our re-financing activities in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our second quarter 2011 tax rate was approximately 43% but we expected to be approximately 40% for full year of 2011.
Second quarter 2011 GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.19 versus $0.17 last year adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.21 as compared to $0.18 in the second quarter of 2010.
Please turn to slide 7.
Property and Facilities Management was our largest service line in the second quarter of 2011 representing 35% of total revenue in the quarter leasing with our second largest service line in the second quarter of 2011 as the posting of 22% increase versus the second quarter of 2010.
It represented 32% percent of total company revenue in both the second quarter of 2011 and the second quarter of 2010.
Investment sales again posted strong growth with an increase of 44% in the second quarter of 2011 and other significant improvement following a gain of 61% in the second quarter of 2010 versus the second quarter of 2009.
Appraisal &amp; Valuation revenue jumped 16% in the second quarter of 2011 as compared to the second quarter of 2010.
This was driven by continued strength in capital market activities in the quarter.
Global Investment Management revenue increased 27% year-over-year driven by increases in asset management fees.
Commercial Mortgage Brokerage posted an increase of 47% driven by continuing improvement in capital availability to finance commercial real estate properties and the search will yield by investors in debt instruments.
Development services revenue was down 17% primarily due to lower rental revenue resulting from property dispositions.
Revenue from property and facilities management fees for assets under management loan servicing fees and leasing commissions from existing clients are all largely recurring.
This revenue comprised approximately 58% of total revenue for the second quarter of 2011.
Please turn to slide 8.
The outsourcing business growth rate remained quite strong this quarter with revenue up 13% versus the second quarter of 2010.
This was driven by robust new account growth as well as client renewals and expansions that we experienced throughout 2010 and in the first half of 2011.
This strong performance was evident across all regions.
In the second quarter; a record 47 total long-term contract was signed.
This exceeds the previous quarterly record which was 44 in the first quarter of 2011.
We signed 15 new accounts 18 renewals and 14 expansions.
The revenue in RP pipelines in this business are very healthy with the buyers throughout global portfolios.
Overall our global portfolio of commercial property and corporate facilities under management totaled 2.8 billion square feet at the end of the second quarter an increase of 17% from the second quarter of 2010.
Slide 9 demonstrates the stabilizing or improving vacancy rates and absorption in office and industrial markets through the second quarter of 2011 and our forecasted improvements in all three areas for 2011 and 2012.
Average national office cap rates improved meaningfully in the second quarter of 2011 as compared to the second quarter of 2010 driven by Class A property sales and some early improvements across other classes.
Please turn to slide 10.
The recovery of the America sales market accelerated in the second quarter of 2011 with revenue for the second quarter jumping 68% on a year-over-year basis on top of a 47% increase in the second quarter of 2010 versus the second quarter of 2009.
For the first six months of the year our US investment sales market share totaled 14.3% according to Real Capital Analytics.
This share was more than 450 basis points larger than our nearest competitor.
Our Americas leasing revenue posted a 23% in the second quarter of 2011 as compared to the second quarter of 2010.
This comes on the heels of a 37% increase in the second quarter of 2010 versus the second quarter of 2009.
Our year-over-year second quarter Americas leasing performance was also significantly better than our year-over-year first quarter performance.
This confirms I believe that despite the lower growth in the first quarter of 2011.
The underlying recovery and supporting fundamentals are solid.
During the second quarter of 2011 the US office vacancy rate decreased by 20 basis points to 16.2%.
Net absorption in US office product improved modestly and this has had a slightly positive impact on vacancy rate.
Please turn to slide 11.
Our investment sales revenue growth in EMEA slowed in the second quarter of 2011 but was still up 9% as compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Growth was evident in the United Kingdom and Nordic region.
CBRE’s revenue from leasing and EMEA grew 23% in the second quarter of 2011 versus the second quarter of 2010.
This comes on top of a 15% increase in the second quarter of 2010 over the second quarter of 2009 and despite slower economic growth in the Euro zone than in the other parts of the world.
The United Kingdom France and the Netherlands were the primary drivers of leasing revenue growth in the second quarter of 2011 in EMEA.
Please turn to slide 12.
CBRE sales revenue in Asia Pacific increased by 28% in the second quarter of 2011 as compared to the second quarter of 2010.
This followed a 66% increase in the second quarter of 2010 versus the second quarter of 2009 Australia and China drove this growth.
CBRE leasing revenue in Asia Pacific grew 17% in the second quarter of 2011 versus the second quarter of 2010.
The strongest revenue growth came from New Zealand China and India.
Albeit a relatively small part of our overall revenue under the circumstances it is appropriate to provide a brief update on our performance in Japan.
While our capital market activities have slowed by 30% leasing improved slightly versus the prior year.
Business conditions in Japan have begun to stabilize.
Please turn to slide 13.
Revenue for the Development Services segment was $17.2 million in the second quarter of 2011 versus $19.7 million in the second quarter of 2010.
Operating results for the second quarter of 2011 for this segment included normalized EBITDA of $9.4 million as compared to $28.4 million in the second quarter of 2010.
As previously mentioned the decline in normalized EBITDA was driven by outside gains from property sales in the second quarter of 2010.
At June 30 2011 in-process development totaled $4.9 billion unchanged from December 31 2010 and up $500 million from the $4.4 billion in-process at the end of the second quarter of 2010.
The pipeline at June 30 2011 increase to $1.4 billion up $200 million from year-end 2010 and $600 million from the end of the second quarter of 2010 which indicates continued improvement in the sector.
At the end of the second quarter our equity co-investments in the development services business totaled $79.4 million.
Please turn to slide 14.
The Global Investment Management segment's revenue was up 26% to $58.9 million including revenue from discontinued operations of $1.4 million in the second quarter of 2011 from $46.9 million in the second quarter of 2010.
Increased fees for assets under management acquisition fees and modest carried interest revenue all contributed to the overall increase.
Assets under management or AUM totaled $39.1 billion at the end of the second quarter of 2011 which was 4% higher than the $37.6 billion under management at year-end and 2010 and 16% higher than the $33.7 billion at the end of the second quarter of 2010.
During the second quarter of 2011 we completed [ph] approximately $1.3 billion of acquisition and approximately $800 million of dispositions globally.
Property valuation increased our AUM by $600 million and currency fluctuations increased the portfolio by approximately $100 million.
Year-to-date 2011 we have raised new capital of approximately $600 million and had approximately $1.7 billion of capital to deploy at the end of the quarter.
Our current investments in this business at the end of the quarter total $105.8 million.
On July 1 we closed the ING Clarion Real Estate securities portions of the ING Real Estate investment management or INR REIM transaction for consideration of approximately $324 million.
We also acquired co-investment positions of approximately $59 million in select sponsored funds.
This portion of the acquisition brings approximately $21 billion of listed securities assets under management through this segment.
We remain unscheduled to close the ING REIM in Europe and Asia portion of the transactions in the second half of the year.
Our Global Investment Management EBITDA reconciliation detail is shown on slide 15.
In the second quarter of 2011 we incurred $4.8 million of expenses related to the ING REIM acquisition predominantly for legal and other professional services.
In the second quarter of 2011 we reported $5.3 million of carried interest compensation expense which relates to the gains expected in future periods.
As of June 30 2011 the company maintains a cumulative accrual of carried interest compensation expense of approximately $26 million which pertains to anticipated future carried interest revenue.
This business operated at the pro forma normalized EBITDA margin of 21% for the second quarter of 2011.
Please turn to slide 16.
Slide 16 shows an amortization and debt maturity schedule for all outstanding debt.
On June 30 2011 we do down our $400 million term loan V to fund the closing of ING Clarion Real Estate Securities on July 1st.
The terms are LIBOR plus 350 with 1% annual amortization and maturity in 2019.
While we have sufficient cash on hand and debt capacities to fund the remainder of the ING REIM acquisition we are also considering whether or not we will utilize the $250 million dollar ATM equity raise authorized by our Board of Directors.
We are comfortable with a balanced maturity profile we have on our debts with no meaningful maturities until 2015.
Please turn to slide 17.
Excluding our non-recourse real estate loans and mortgage brokerage warehouse facility our total net debt at the end of the second quarter of 2011 was $1.2 billion.
This represents an increase from year-end 2010 primarily due to seasonal and incentive compensation and tax payments.
In addition we spent approximately $45 million on three in-fill acquisitions during this timeframe.
These included our affiliate operation in Switzerland a retail property management company in Central and Eastern Europe and evaluation business in Australia.
At June 30 2011 our weighted average interest rate was approximately 6.2% slightly lower than the 6.4% at the end of the first quarter of 2011.
Our leverage ratio on a covenant basis now stands at 1.25 times at the end of the second quarter of 2011 on a trailing twelve months basis.
Our total company net debt to EBITDA stood at 1.64 times which remains below our current target of 2 times.
We continued to anticipate that this ratio will be approximately 2.5 times post the closing of all ING REIM.
I will now turn the call back over to Brett.
Thank you Gil and please turn to slide 18.
This quarter demonstrated that the recovery in commercial real estate continues despite some bumps in the road to global economic recovery.
Outsourcing fundamentals remain strong as evidence by our execution of the record number of contracts in the second quarter.
We continued to look for double digit revenue growth from this part of our business.
We expect our investments sales business in the Americas and Asia Pacific to continue to generate strong revenue growth throughout the year with somewhat less certainty in this regard in EMEA.
Recent revenue growth should remain solid even in the phase of tougher comparisons later in the year.
While individual transactions can often greatly implements quarter-to-quarter performance of our global investment management and development services segments.
We are generally quite optimistic about the outlook for these businesses for the rest of this year.
The carried interest compensation accruals taken in the investment management business are good indicators of future asset valuation increases and corresponding carried interest revenue for the company.
We continue to target peak EBITDA margins of 20% for the company and we continue to expect earnings to be in the range of $0.95 to a $1.05 per share for full year in 2011.
Operator we will now take questions.
Thank your good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
The extra comp cost that you guys took on in Europe and then returning some of the comp levels to pre-recession levels you mentioned you did a lot of these things in anticipation of a higher revenue base I am just wondering if you think you are going to hit that higher revenue base or what that sort of return looks like on making these investments back in the costs.
Sure Anthony I will take a stab at this and then Gill you can round up what I neglect to mention.
Your know Anthony when we set our budgets for the year and we need to forecast not only the amount of aggravate revenues that the company will benefit from during the year but also their timing and their mix and that anticipation of revenues time in a mix then determines the amount of expense that we will load into business for future growth.
And the hiring that we have been doing across the business has been an anticipation of the type of the revenue growth that we are seeing right now.
These really at the revenue line unprecedented numbers for services of industry firm in its space.
So revenues are coming in at a level that are very close to what we expected how they make it is a bit different and that mix that we are experience at this movement is rated a bit more heavily towards the outsourcing states and a bit less heavily in Europe towards the capital markets business which is our highest margin business.
Now withstanding that our view regarding the recovery in general and in the mid and long-term remains like what it has been all long which is we are in the early stages of a cyclical recovery it will be a good recovery and the hiring we have been doing the business is well timed and well placed for the revenues were both expressing today and what we will be experiencing down the road in the future but quarter-to-quarter and the early stages of this recovery cycle it will not match perfectly and we saw a little bit of that in the second quarter results.
Gil you want to add anything to that? Yes Brett the only thing I would say; I just reiterate that you know we do manage cost and philosophically manage costs relative to revenues but you don’t know what is in front of you and you certainly you do what is behind you and so seeing what we have seen this quarter in our conclusions regarding that we can then make adjustments to our cost base to match - anticipate revenues based on the latest performance.
Is there anything that you seeing after that prompt you to may be take you further off the gas in terms of investing in some businesses and just watching things on the cross side a bit more at this point.
You know it is a great question Anthony it is something that like I said it’s an art and so we feel very strong that our commitment to the market to our shareholders and to all of you is that we focus very very heavily on margin and you know that about us.
So we are probably more likely to make adjustments of the cost base quickly and relieve as opposed to standing on the idea that these investments should stand as they are and continue a pace for some future date of revenue increase so all that to say that based on the mix of revenues that we have seen year-to-date and the derivations geographically there is revenues.
We have already begun to address components of our cost structure and you should expect us to do whatever we need to do to deliver the margins and earnings that we talk about the last few quarters.
Okay a question on the leasing side and that part of the business can you talk to just general activity levels over the last few months like did you see much of a slowdown in May across the regions and are you seeing any sort of pickup in July just how is the business felt and you know how this has been feeling over the just the last few months.
Well let me first of all say that the kind of leasing growth we are seeing globally right now is unprecedented it follows a year or we have a very strong growth as well and leasing was not hit anywhere near as hard day and capital market were during the down turn so the leasing business generally speaking is in very good shape now that means there is so much uncertainty out there in the market place and has been for a few months here that it is very difficult to tell month to month what leasing revenues are going to look like and they can be very lumpy as well you know few large transactions can really move the needle you way on you leasing business in any geography.
I would say generally Anthony that leasing business looks quite good that our expectations are as it will remain quite good for a year and I guess Anthony I would remind you and the other caller’s of what we talk about a lot in our investor day and we talk about on this phone call which shocks to the capital market such as we are seeing in Europe right now for sovereign debt concerns.
What that does it does not tend to have an immediate impact on the leasing.
It tends to call a time out in our capital markets business.
So for instance our investment properties performance in Europe was below what we had expected and that absolutely to be expected when you have got these charts to the capital market system in Europe.
It is a time out it is certainly not a change of course and we remain very bullish on the capital markets both mid and long term but these issues that we see in Europe there is a spectacle is occurring in Washington right now.
At the moment we don’t seem to be having a material impact on leasing now if they continue for a for a protracted period of time that could change but at the moment I would say leasing looks looks quite good.
Okay then just my last question.
How much did you guys spend on those few acquisitions you made in the quarter and what were the EBTIDA multiples like.
I will give you the multiples and then Gil if you want to them out you can.
I do not think we will but all we got is a (inaudible).
In multiples in a market like this are going to be a bit higher than they will be later on this cycle because we are buying off of trough EBITDA.
So the kind of multiples that we are looking at today they vary by geography and they vary by business line.
Generally speaking I would say on the low-end they run probably four to five times and at the high-end we will probably getting into the eight range and again it really depends on what type of trough you guys are buying off of and the kind of churns that you can get around the measurement but that would be the range and that range is as you know Anthony it is fairly typical for our acquisition program.
Gil you want to talk about any of the numbers there.
Yes we already disclosed an aggregate it was $45 million.
Thank you.
Hi good morning guys.
Not that I would beat a dead horse on the cost but Brett your point on time out in certain markets.
Do you think from a strategic standpoint that you are staffed appropriately for a time out meaning that do you think it’s temporary for this year or do you think that your points about managing costs going forward that you would manage more to a margin target for the end of the year or an earnings target for the end of the year.
Well there is a lot in that question Sloan.
I will start with we manage the business to a margin target and to an absolute earnings target and we expect the business to produce at both those metrics according to the plan we set forth at the beginning of the year.
Let me be clear about by what I mean by a time out.
This can be a two week phenomena it is not a year phenomena and these time outs tend to be if you look at the performance of EMEA capital markets in the second quarter we are at 9% which I believe was the highest growth rate of industry in the second quarter.
We had a very good performance there in the capital markets but not the level performance that you would expect at this stage of recovery and that is because of these issues occurring I believe these issues occurring across pan continental Europe but that slowing of capital markets transactions can be a very short life phenomena and what it is Sloan I think I talked about this before.
It’s simply buyers pausing because they want to see what resolution of these specific issues in the market will be because that will allow them to set pricing so it may be a two week phenomena it may be a two month phenomena.
I doubt it is a two quarter phenomena.
It is definitely not a year phenomena and there are four as we think about our business and we think about citing cost.
Certainly we are looking at those businesses in the capital markets so we look at the entire business to make sure that - where we see the revenues coming from both by line of business and by geography that we can deliver at the EBITDA the margin in the earnings line the numbers that we - we believe are appropriate for the year so all that to say again and you are not beating a dead worse.
I think you are asking right question Sloan.
We really believe that delivering those metrics is important.
I do not feel great about the performance of net income line this past quarter.
I do not feel great about it at all.
And we are not going to continue along at that kind of performance for the balance of the year.
We will do whatever it takes to deliver the kind of numbers that we believe are appropriate for this firm in this and those for instance Sloan to be specific our expectation remains that our full year EBITDA margins 2011 will be greater than our full EBITDA margin 2010 and let that one sentence define for your lot or answer lot of questions you are going to ask.
Okay that that is fair enough very helpful and then just a kind of follow up question with regard to what we are seeing from your competitors being a little bit more aggressive and trying to take share in parts of the world that you are the leaders in.
Is that causing any pressure on cost with regard to retaining your own talent? No it isn’t.
We are – first of all I would say that phenomena I do not know if it is any different today than it was last year or three years ago or five years ago.
The competitive environment that we live in is fierce but our ability to not only retain key talent (inaudible) to our competitors remains very very high for all the reasons that we have talked about before.
In our industry we employ a population of 31 000 people.
We take enormous pride in our position in the market place and I believe in our business having been in this business now close to 30 years it really doesn’t matter where you set a lead table [ph] in this business.
People take great pride in that.
They think about it a lot and they believe that it brings meaningful business to the table being number one in these markets and it needs business lines.
All that to say that we certainly see a lot of the recruiting going on in the market place we haven’t lost any to my knowledge.
We haven’t lost any significant revenue producing personnel or for that matter management in some time.
In fact we are picking up I believe we are picking up some pretty terrific of talent right now in all three of our major geographies.
Great thank you guys.
Sure.
Hi guys.
Wonder if you could focus on headcount for a bit in two different ways.
One in terms of brokerage professionals you are adding and investment sales and leasing.
Can you give us a sense of what it may have looked like to finish out 2010 and where we are now and if any color by geography it would be helpful also.
And the kind of a base within that to a certain extent - kind of support people that have come along with those broker hires.
Just kind of trying to get a sense of how we think about the human capital and kind of fix a cost that is in the business now versus last year.
Yes it’s a good question Brandon.
Indeed the headcount on revenue producing professionals in the transaction business probably has not moved much year-over-year and I will just remind you and the callers what we have talked about before a lot which is the capacity of the business to onboard additional (inaudible) FTE position.
We it is not unlimited; we have never yet shift that maximum amount that requires the hiring of additional revenue production people to accommodate the revenues.
What does change as the markets begin to improve is spending in other areas and those other areas are things such as travel for marketing its overall marketing expenses its forward expenses will put into large capital markets dispositions or large letting assignments.
Its - in this market we are at one of big areas where cost has been on boarded is we are experiencing at the moment unprecedented levels of on boarding of very large corporate services and institutional assets versus client.
These are huge huge opportunities for us.
you see some of them in our key win slides such as PRUPIM and others these are very very big assignments and the fact of that matter is with 44 lease assignments this quarter 41 the quarter before and we will well on board over a 100 major contracts issue probably close to 200 and those tend to be very very heavily weighted front end with cost and tend to have very little if any profit for 10 to 12 to 14 months.
So that there is lot of cost there that cost we are not going to touch.
Because that is directly associated with large accounts and revenues that we can see but the marketing cost some other production cost and the supportive cost in the business if we do not see the revenue production in those business lines that we expect those are the areas we will pull back a bit on.
Okay and then taking a different track for a second.
Given that most industries have seen some sort of price compression or commission compression have you guys seen either in sales or leasing any pressure from your customers on the commission rates that they are paying to you guys and would you anticipate any if the economy remains kind of stagnant weak globally does that put more pressure on you guys or doesn’t it because of sort it becomes more valuable.
Yes it’s the latter so commission rates you know we talked about this before they do not tend too much but the movement that does occur commission rates tend to go up and capital markets – they tend to compress a little bit in better market.
You know it is interesting as difficult as the macroeconomic environment is at the moment.
The commercial real estate market is quite good and what we are seeing at the moment is showing no movement in our commission rate in any geography.
We say some years ago when it had stuck a lowering of commission rates on the large capital markets transactions but nothing has changed there in the last 24 months.
I do not expect you are going to see much movement in commission rates are going forward for a few years either.
(inaudible) question from me.
If you look at the larger services deals facility management property management deals which you on boarded during 2010 has those generated the types of - follow on the revenue either in a managing business sales process for facilities or managing the leasing around those facilities that is what you expected when you went into those contracts.
The answer is yes but we know going into those contracts so those follow on revenues take quite a bit of time.
I will give you an example there is a terrific global engineering client of ours yet we took on as a global client three years ago.
That account has embedded within it an enormous amount of follow on activities that we conduct at a high margin and that account did not really start spinning off those opportunities until two years into the account.
It took that long to burn off the legacy business with the prior incumbent had had their protection on deals that we are not yet done and for us to fully explore the opportunity with that client.
So all these wins that we are getting last year all the wins that we are getting this year set us up for a very very good long term picture in terms of picture in terms of cross selling within the business and ongoing additional revenues but they take time.
Unfortunately in the outsourcing business you can on board a client in January and you will bring all the cost on January 1 but the process maybe a year out and they tend to ramp up once they started coming in so we are not surprised like in we are seeing but that’s the way that business works.
Okay appreciate it thanks.
Good morning I want you to just switch to a more macro issue just the whole debates that are going on in Washington.
Just curious about your thoughts and what would happen if there was a rating downgrade of sovereign debt just in terms of business confidence.
Well I do not really know what was going to happen yet.
The spectacles occurring in Washington I do not know if that is going to end up let us know because we do not.
At the moment I do not believe that it’s had any impact at all on business activity in the States.
I think it certainly has worried a lot of our global partners to know and the outcome of all of these you know I suppose if we could follow up and we get a serious downgrade here.
I suppose that should have a material impact on business confidence but I think at the moment there is a law based expectations that a downgrade is going to occur no matter what the outcome is now and we are seeing that have a - at the moment a big impact any impact at all in the business.
It is just impossible to say that trying to judge what impact a change in (inaudible) is going to have on the business is very difficult but I will stay in the commercial real estate world a different than perhaps consumer spending or some of the other metrics you might look at.
In our world we are doing with clients who are generally making very long term decisions on the capital market side as I mentioned earlier those buying or selling investment properties they can be very very nimble.
They can pull a property from the market for a month and put it back on a month later they can put a property under contract in a month cancel a contract and put back in contract 6 weeks later and so that business tends to be a bit fickle with these types of issues in the market place because - by the way fairly quickly but on the leasing side on the outsourcing side on the evaluation side on the property management side these business are very slow moving big long term oriented contracts - and these types day to day issues and issues we have here in the States and the secondary issues we have in Europe right now do not turn out a big impact on those businesses.
These people are – if your firm has a lease coming up December of this year.
It doesn’t matter if there is a vacancy downgraded doesn’t matter what congressmen at the senate do next week.
And you are going to get that space regardless so you know as we watch all this play out.
We are seeing the impact of the sovereign debt issues in Europe play out in the capital markets in Europe you can see it.
It’s a bit of a pause there as people wait for some certainty around these issues in the States so far no impact but no way to tell.
Okay great thanks for that and then just wanted more company specific question.
I was curious about the impact of currency adjustments on your reported numbers this quarter is that something you would disclose.
Gil Generally we don’t say a lot of currency because it doesn’t have a very big impact on the EBITDA line; they all notably impact from each of revenue and cost lines.
I would tell you though on the EBITDA line again this quarter it is a little bit more notable that usual to the positive by low single digit million.
Okay great thank you.
Sure.
Thank you good morning Brett good morning Gil.
First I just want to ask Gil; do you have based on your guidance what interest expensive would be for the year do you mind giving that.
</strong> I am happy to do that.
I think it is going to run for the rest of the year in each of the quarters around $35 million.
Okay Brett or Gil is it relevant to discuss the cost cutting you made back in 2008 and 2009 and how that is going and is your targets are still in range.
Gil Yes sure.
So well what we said in the first quarter right was that we are going to stop giving specific guidance on a large pot because a following along out of philosophy of matching cost to revenue our revenues were coming at a faster pace than what we anticipated when we had the full - cost would come back so I would turn to that trend continues in the second quarter meeting the cost are coming back faster than we thought they would when we gave the original target because the revenues are coming back faster but I do not want to get into a specific numbers for the same reasons I did not want to in the first quarter which is a little difficult to judge and we are - doing all that we will continue to from a philosophical and practical standpoint continues to monitor them and monitor them in the context of revenue and mix of revenue.
Okay great and Brett back to your I think powerful comment about potential margin expansion this year.
Should we think about this year as a year when you are doing some something is to ramp up or you got added cost that may be not the revenues and the next year the margin should expand more.
You know it is a good question.
I suppose the answer is a little bit a yes and a little bit of no.
So philosophically and generally speaking our approach has been to very carefully onboard cost that is supported by near term revenue so we have really tried to stay away from the idea that we are going to get on these calls and say you we crushed margin this quarter but in 2012you are going to see some great results - we try not to do that and we are not doing that this quarter.
What we say in this quarter that the mixed – first of all we are going to compare issue that significant and if you know we are not asking to do it but if you normalize that this comparison we talked about we have 22% EBITDA growth in a flat margins year-over-year.
That is pretty damn good.
We consider to be a pretty acceptable performance; however we think we can do better and the reason we think we can do better is the mix of the revenues that came in was different than had forecast late last year when put the budgets together and because it is different we are actually making some cost adjustments now so what we are not saying to you is hey look folks this is what it is we are going to spend these dollars today regardless of mix and regardless of what it does to margins and we are going to give you great performance in future years.
We just don’t think that way and what we are saying to you is we are not satisfied with the performance we put up in the second quarter.
We know we can do better; we can do better by more properly matching cost to where the revenues are coming in.
That having been said there is absolutely no doubt as we went into 2011 we consciously on-boarded significant cost around our transaction businesses because we knew and we continue to believe that we are in the early quarters of what is going to be a good recovery and remember Will we talked about this at the end of the third quarter call last year to fourth quarter call and the first quarter call this year.
We knew back then that the recovery was going to be described as incremental and rocky it has been exactly that.
We are not hugely surprised by the GDP forecast numbers that are out there.
We are not hugely surprised by the performance of the leasing businesses or the outsourcing businesses.
What is that different we expected is the more rate [ph] in Europe based on the sovereign debt issues there and a few other selected items.
So our commitment to you and to our shareholders is we watch margin everyday and we are committed to deliver on margin every day.
At this stage in the early days of recovery cycle though the phenomena you mentioned is certainly real and there is cost around the business there is opportunity being brought on the business that will pay dividends in future years most specifically what I referenced a few moments ago with outsourcing.
These outsourcing contracts that we were winning are material there is significant and they are very very important to the business and when those opportunities arise we are not going to walk away from them because you know they’re going to hurt margins for year.
You go after them and you build a great business around knowing that you have got now 10 years or 12 years perhaps 15 years of a terrific opportunity to cross sell additional services through and to manage one of the world’s best corporations for institutional investors.
So we will focus on margins this year Will we’ll focus on margins next year there is cost coming into business right now around accounts that will pay dividends in future years and there is some amount of cost we brought into business this year knowing that the revenues we would be chasing with that cost might not materialize till 2012 or 2013 but all that having been said we believe that it is appropriate at this point in time in fact we believe that for a few months to take another look at our cost structure and make adjustments.
Okay.
And then thank you for that full synopsis of that.
One final question on kind of related to ING free cash flow your balance sheet.
Looking at - I imagine if you had the opportunity around the ING announcement to issue some equity I guess you always had that opportunity through an ATM or some sort of offering.
Would you say that that is off the table would you still consider issuing the equity or ever thinking about it? Well as Gil mentioned in his scripted comments earlier today.
It is an option that remains available to us and we have also talked about sizing that option which is I wouldn’t say it’s immaterial but it is close to it.
We thought about $ 250 million or something like that program.
At this point I don’t want to predict whether we will or won’t.
I think it is was something that we want you to know for large acquisitions we will keep it in our back pocket and if we feel that it is the proper use of the equity and it is economically the right decision then we are prepared to do it.
We have chosen not to do it so far but I don’t want to tell you conclusively we have decided not to do it around this field at all.
I would say we are probably leaning that way but I don’t want you to call-up angry if we end up issuing some equity later this year.
I suspect it is becoming less likely but that possibility remains.
Fair enough okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Will.
Yes.
Some questions on the US office market.
My impression is that in a nationwide absorption is positive vacancy rates are down but the rents are still flat.
So first question would you agree with that characterization and then the follow-on on that.
You had spoken in the past about an acceleration in leasing when rents starts to rise and pick-up but given how strong leasing is growing today with that will it still be the case in this cycle? It is David.
What you are seeing right now occurring both here in the States and outside the States is a real nice pick-up in activity among corporate clients.
However what they’re chewing through right now is a fairly significant amount of shadow space of sub-lease space that was out there were empty space that corporations just weren’t using so we have to choose through all of those shadow space in the market before we can start making a real dent on vacancies which will then make a real dent on rents.
Our forecasts are that we are about there.
The leasing strength is now good enough that we are forecasting increased rentals across all types of the commercial real estate asset class in the coming quarters and I think that is about right.
I think we are at that point now where we are about it when of course and you are seeing David in some markets and yours is certainly one of them in Manhattan.
We are seeing rent increase in the stronger markets right now.
Alright.
Thank you.
Did the movement of distress property sales in the second quarter did that accelerate or is it still very sluggish and maybe if you have any thoughts on the pipeline there in the second half of this year.
We have talked about this plan every call for 3 years now and really nothing has changed there David.
The distressed property market certainly exists.
There has been trading in that market ever since really 2009 the trading has been heavily muted both because of the fact that lenders have been pre-exposed to work these issues out with their current borrowers rather than foreclosing the properties into the market and because the market is improving.
The situation we are in now is that I think there is a broad based consensus that the market is only getting better not getting worse and therefore any people on the bubble with distressed property we think that they are into position to hold on or to re-finance or to feed a little bit of equity to a property to keep it are going to do that and those folks who have been thinking about selling their property are encouraged because there is no other better days ahead so the distressed property pipeline the distressed property market at the moment I will not describe it as a material component of the business we operate in right now.
The real action on the property trading side remains in the core asset class.
The best properties in the best cities which are now trading their prices approximating or equal to peak pricings in 2007.
The action there is unabated and notwithstanding the issues we see in Europe notwithstanding nonsense in Washington at the moment.
There is an enormous amount of capital out there that wants to buy commercial property right now but one place that velocity really hasn’t moved much has been quite strong as in core it is not in distress.
Alright that is very helpful and then maybe a final question.
We are seeing the first Euro CNBS [ph] since the recession this quarter but we've also as you have highlighted seen a lot of economic concerns and financial uncertainty there.
In net-net is the availability of debts still improving on the margin or have we kind of seen that stabilized here in the second quarter.
I think it is improving; it’s the big metrics that you and I would watch is to determine the forecast help in the asset class all moving in the right direction.
The underlying dynamics below the commercial real estate services business are very very good right now.
They have been good now for going on a year they remain very good and the kind of numbers we are seeing in leasing and outsourcing a property management capital markets in the States these are impressive figures and so financing is getting a little bit easier every day.
The CNBS issuance this year which we think will be $14 billion to $ 16 billion is a little improvement over last year and huge improvement over two years ago and that is just more liquidity into the financing of commercial real estate and that improvement that trend remained apace and we don’t expect it to be impacted day-to-day by the issues that are occurring in the market outside our sector.
Pricing will move a bit that is for sure but the availability is certainly getting better.
Alright thank you very much.
Welcome.
Thanks.
In the investment sales business what are margins look like for the big property trades versus more than $10 to $50 million type transactions just curious as you start to see some of these bigger trades in these core markets starting to happen with more frequency right now.
It is a great question Anthony and it is one of those ironic data points of our industry the margins are better on the little deals so on the smaller transactions there is very little decompression on the very very large transactions the fees can get fairly skinny as a percent of the total consideration and the margins on the small transactions are quite high.
The margins on the bigger transactions are still quite good but they are not as good as the small ones.
Now on the big core deals your seeing going down out there.
I would have to guess what kind of margins one of those deals based down at; every one of those deals is different.
They are still quite good.
They are certainly within or above the range we target for the firm on an annual basis but as you compare that to a small deal say $5 million or $10 million deal you could have a margin on one of those deals that is close to 30% the bigger deals are something less than that.
Gil I know you look at this quite a bit would you like to add anything or be more specific on that.
No I think generally that is right that is exactly the way it plays that’s the larger the deal the smaller the return.
Does that suggest that even though we’re watching a lot of this core stuff and these big properties trade and that is all good that what we really need to see is maybe more broad spread across secondary and tertiary markets where you just on an average smaller trades to kind of help boost margins in that business.
I think it is a fair comment.
I don’t want to leave with the impression that selling core properties business is a fantastic business because it is.
It is still very large piece it is very very good for the business and in the core property trades which is also available there which is very interesting to us - most property trades tends to be an opportunity to sell through in a very significant way following products whether it is evaluation or property management or leasing and those matter.
So the tree of big core properties is very important and it is very good for the business.
Certainly as the capital markets continue to mature and we see buying we are beginning to see that now and Gil mentioned it in his comments.
As we see buying now spread away from just core property and getting some with the secondary markets and secondary product types all of these help with the margin there is no doubt about it and when we get into a completely normal environment in the capital markets margins will be above in that business where are they now there is no doubt about that.
Okay thank you and then just one thing maybe for Gil with the securities part of ING closing on July 01 looks like we got a full quarter of that in 3Q.
Can you help us roll forward with some numbers maybe on how much of the billion dollars was allocated to securities and maybe what the multiple on that piece of it look like so we can try to pick that up properly? Yes here is what we did we disclosed that we spent $324 million on that piece of it and we spent $59 million on stepping into co-investments that came along with that business.
So I’ll make that statement I am not going to get into multiples on the portion of the business we previously disclosed that the multiple for the total and you saw that in what we presented we put out based on the Performa 2010.
What I will say is with that business coming in you are correct it will have two quarters of activity that will be for our books and records and will benefit through the RE but we haven’t yet done the purchase price allocation and part of the purchase price will go to intangible that amortize which will be an offset to any of the EBITDA that that business has and frankly that the rest of the business has and off course there is an interest expense associated with the funds used to make the acquisition so what that does I would re-iterate what we have said before which is a modest positive impact in 2011 and it is likely better one in 2012.
It takes quite a bit to move the dial relative to the earnings of the entire corporation.
I was just not on that topic but I would comment Anthony and for the rest of the callers.
We have covered a lot of very specific questions around cost what is going on with business today based on these issues though it is in Washington and in Europe.
I think it is important that we let you know that notwithstanding what are seeing issues we are seeing in Europe notwithstanding the nonsense occurring in Washington right now our views around the strength and the durability to recover are not changed.
These are kind of bumps that you will hit on the road from time-to-time but none of those has in anyway shape or form modified our view about the strength durability and the duration of the recovery we believe we are in.
Thank you.
Great we appreciate everyone dialing in and will talk to you again in three months thanks.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the CBRE Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session with instructions being given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Nick Kormeluk.
Please go ahead.
(Inaudible) CBRE’s third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
About an hour ago we issued a press release announcing our financial results.
This release is available on the homepage of our website at cbre.com.
This conference call is being webcast and is available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Also available is a presentation slide deck which you can use to follow along with our prepared remarks.
An archive audio of the webcast and a PDF version of the slide presentation will be posted to the website later today and a transcript of our call will be posted tomorrow.
Please turn to the slide labeled Forward Looking Statements.
This presentation contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements regarding our future growth momentum operations financial performance business outlook ability to compete and integrate our announced acquisition of the ING REIM business in Europe and the ability to complete a new incremental senior secured sterling denominated term A-1 loan facility.
These statements should be considered as estimates only and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Except to the extent required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forward-looking statements that you may hear today.
Please refer to our third quarter earnings report filed on Form 8-K our current annual report on Form 10-K and our current quarterly report on Form 10-Q in particular any discussion of risk factors or forward-looking statements which are filed with the SEC and available at the SEC’s website sec.gov for a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any estimates that you may hear today.
We may make certain statements during the course of this presentation which include references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations.
As required by these regulations we have provided reconciliations of these measures to what we believe are the most directly comparable GAAP measures which are attached hereto within the appendix.
Our management team members participating with me today are Brett White our Chief Executive Officer; and Gil Borok our Chief Financial Officer.
I’ll now turn the call over to Brett.
Good morning and good afternoon and thank you Nick.
Please turn to slide four.
This quarter our strong performance in evidence of the continued commercial real estate recovery comes against the backdrop of persistent sovereign debt concerns in Europe and tepid economic unemployment growth in the U.S.
Revenue growth for CBRE was strong in the third quarter.
Total company revenue was over $1.5 billion representing a 21% increase over the third quarter of 2010.
This growth was balanced across all geographies in most service lines.
Leasing revenue increased 19% in the third quarter of 2011 with all regions increasing by double digits in the quarter.
The largest percentage gains in Leasing were in Asia Pacific and EMEA.
Outsourcing revenue accelerated significantly in the third quarter of 2011 with growth of 19%.
All geographies had double-digit growth with EMEA leading the other two regions.
Investment Sales growth was 23% for the total company entirely driven by the Americas as EMEA and Asia Pacific were essentially flat.
Investment Management revenue showed a significant increase from higher asset management fees primarily driven by CBRE Clarion Securities which we acquired on July 1st as well as higher incentive fees.
Normalized EBITDA increased to $194.8 million from $175.5 million.
Our normalized EBITDA margin was 12.7% versus 13.9% in the third quarter of 2010.
This margin comparison is impacted by an unfavorable variance of 60 basis points resulting from an increase in net carried interest compensation expense in our Investment Management business this year versus last.
Another 60 basis point unfavorable variance was due to increased legal reserves associated with two unrelated cases and insurance reserves on claims within our Appraisal &amp; Valuation business which date back to the downturn.
Despite these variances as well as higher Outsourcing business mix and increased staffing in EMEA which also contributed to lower operating leverage in the quarter we are still not satisfied with the overall EBITDA margin result and fully expect our cost production measures to show greater impact in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Because of this we reiterate our expectation that full year 2011 normalized EBITDA margin will exceed full year 2010 normalized EBITDA margin.
Some of the most significant transactions we completed during or immediately following the quarter are shown here on slide five.
As usual I will not go through them individually but we have included them for your review.
I will now turn the call over to Gil to go over financial results in detail.
Thank you Brett.
Please advance to slide six.
Revenue was $1.5 billion for the third quarter of 2011 up 21% from last year.
This increase resulted from strong growth in all business lines with the exception of development services.
Normalized EBITDA was up 11% to a $194.8 million in the third quarter of 2011 from a $175.5 million in the third quarter of 2010 delivering a normalized EBITDA margin of 12.7%.
Without the impact of the $7.4 million of carried interest compensation expense this year versus a reversal of $1.4 million last year and the $8.6 million impact of legal and insurance reserves taken in the quarter that Brett just mentioned normalized EBITDA would have grown by about 21% and normalized EBITDA margin would have been almost flat compared to last year.
Our cost of services as a percentage of revenue increased very slightly to 58.3% in the third quarter of 2011 versus 58.1% in the third quarter of 2010.
Third quarter 2011 operating expenses as a percent of total revenue increased by a 100 basis points to 30.6% versus 29.6% in the third quarter of 2010.
This was driven by the aforementioned carried interest expense legal and insurance reserves as well as the inclusion of CBRE Clarion Securities expenses all of which flowed through operating expense as opposed to cost of services.
Interest expense decreased by $10.7 million in the third quarter of 2011 as compared to the third quarter of 2010 primarily due to lower interest rates resulting from our refinancing activities in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our third quarter 2011 normalized tax rate was approximately 40% and we also expect it to be approximately 40% for the full year 2011.
Third quarter 2011 GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.20 versus $0.18 last year.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.24 as compared to $0.20 in the third quarter of 2010.
Please turn to slide seven.
Property &amp; Facilities Management was again our largest service line in the third quarter of 2011 representing 34% of total revenue in the quarter after growing 19% versus the third quarter of 2010.
Leasing was our second largest service line in the third quarter of 2011 also reporting a 19% revenue increase versus the third quarter of 2010 which experienced a 27% increase over the third quarter of 2009.
Leasing represented 32% of total company revenue in the third quarter of 2011.
Investment Sales growth slowed a bit but was still strong with an increase of 23% in the third quarter of 2011 another meaningful improvement following a gain of 63% in the third quarter of 2010 versus the third quarter of 2009.
Appraisal &amp; Valuation revenue improved 26% in the third quarter of 2011 as compared to the third quarter of 2010.
This was driven by large portfolio assignments globally continued strength in U.S.
capital market activities and an acquisition in Asia Pacific in the second quarter of 2011.
Global Investment Management revenue increased 93% quarter-over-quarter driven by increases in asset management and incentive fees.
Commercial Mortgage Brokerage revenue increased 32% driven by solid cash flow availability favorable interest rates and the continued search for yield by investors.
Development Services revenue was down 21% primarily due to lower rental revenue resulting from property dispositions.
Revenue from Property &amp; Facilities Management fees for assets under management loan servicing fees and leasing commissions from existing clients are all largely recurring.
This revenue comprised approximately 58% of total revenue for the third quarter of 2011.
Please turn to slide eight.
The Outsourcing business growth rate accelerated this quarter with revenue up 19% versus the third quarter of 2010.
This was driven by record setting new account growth continued strong client renewals and expansions and acquisitions in EMEA.
Strong performance is evident across all regions with EMEA posting the largest revenue increase.
In the third quarter we set another record and signed 49 total long-term contracts.
This exceeds the previous quarterly record which was 47 in the second quarter of 2011.
This is also the third straight record setting quarter in which we signed 20 new accounts which is itself a record 17 renewals and 12 expansions.
The revenue and RFP pipelines in this business continue to be very healthy with more assignments that are global in nature.
Robust activity has helped us add nearly 1 billion square feet job portfolio in just two years.
Slide nine demonstrates the stabilized or improving vacancy rates and positive absorption in the third quarter of 2011 for all three market sectors depicted along with our forecasted improvement in all three areas for 2012.
Average national office cap rates remained stable in the third quarter of 2011 versus the second quarter of 2011 and showed improvement versus the third quarter of 2010 driven by core and Class A property sales.
Please turn to slide 10.
Sales revenue in the Americas continued to be strong with a 42% increase in the third quarter of 2011 versus the third quarter of 2010.
Our U.S.
Investment Sales market share totaled 14.3% for the third quarter of 2011 according to real capital analytics.
This share was more than 470 basis points larger than our nearest competitor.
Our Americas Leasing revenue grew 11% in the third quarter of 2011 as compared to the third quarter of 2010 which grew 36% over the third quarter of 2009.
Fundamentals remained solid despite challenges experienced in the U.S.
economic recovery.
During the third quarter of 2011 the U.S.
office vacancy rate remained unchanged at 16.2%.
Given the increased weighting of Outsourcing overall and the particular growth in EMEA and Asia Pacific in the last few years we have decided to add regional color on Outsourcing in each of our regional revenue slides.
The Americas Outsourcing business grew a strong 13% in the third quarter of 2011 which is consistent with its year-to-date 2011 growth rate.
Please turn to slide 11.
Our Investment Sales revenue in EMEA eased by 3% in the third quarter of 2011 attributable to cautious trading linked to concerns of the sovereign debt challenges.
Despite this strong sales were evident in France and Germany.
CBRE’s EMEA Leasing revenue posted excellent growth with a 33% improvement in the third quarter of 2011 versus the third quarter of 2010.
These positive results came despite macro issues and were driven by the UK France and Germany.
Outsourcing contributed more than $30 million of the revenue improvement in EMEA’s third quarter 2011 results and represented an impressive 48% increase for the quarter driven by new assignments.
Second quarter 2011 acquisitions in Central and Eastern Europe and Switzerland also made positive contributions to revenue growth this quarter.
The revenue mix this quarter with Outsourcing accounting for 5 percentage points more total revenue and sales declining by a light percentage had a notable negative impact on EBITDA margins quarter-over-quarter.
However the absolute quarter-over-quarter EBITDA growth was pleasing in such a tough economic environment.
Please turn to slide 12.
CBRE sales revenue in Asia Pacific was essentially flat in the third quarter of 2011 as compared to the third quarter of 2010.
CBRE’s Leasing revenue in Asia Pacific grew by a dramatic 41% in the third quarter of 2011 versus the third quarter of 2010.
The strongest gains came from Australia China and Singapore.
Outsourcing growth in Asia Pacific was a solid 21% in the third quarter of 2011 versus the third quarter of 2010 as Outsourcing continues to gain adoption in this region.
Please turn to slide 13.
Revenue for the Development Services segment was $18.8 million in the third quarter of 2011 versus $22 million in the third quarter of 2010.
Operating results for the third quarter of 2011 for this segment included normalized EBITDA of $5.2 million as compared to $10.7 million in the third quarter of 2010.
Third quarter 2010 EBITDA benefited from higher gains in the sale of properties primarily reflected in equity income from unconsolidated subsidiaries and income from discontinued operations on our income statements.
At September 30 2011 In Process development totaled $5.1 billion up $200 million from both December 31 2010 and the end of the third quarter of 2010.
The pipeline at September 30 2011 rose to $1.5 billion up $300 million from year-end 2010 and up $400 million from the end of the third quarter of 2010 which indicates continued improvement in this sector.
At the end of the third quarter our equity client investments in the Development Services business totaled $81.6 million.
Please turn to slide 14.
On July 1 2011 we closed the ING Clarion real estate securities portion of the ING Real Estate Investment Management or ING REIM as transaction for consideration of approximately $324 million.
We also acquired core investment positions of approximately $59 million in select sponsored funds.
On October 3rd just after the third quarter ended we closed on the acquisition of ING REIM Asia for consideration of approximately $45 million and core investments of approximately $17 million.
We remain on schedule to close ING REIM Europe by the end of the year.
In the third quarter of 2011 our Global Investment Management segment’s revenue was up 56% to $77.4 million from $49.5 million in the third quarter of 2010.
The increase resulted from higher asset management fees primarily stemming from the ING Clarion Securities acquisition and higher incentive fees.
Assets under management or AUM totaled $53.5 billion at the end of the third quarter of 2011 up 42% from year-end 2010 and 50% higher than at the end of the third quarter of 2010.
The third quarter 2011 total includes listed securities of $18.5 billion.
Changes in market valuation and net redemptions in the securities portfolio decreased assets under management by $4.6 billion in the quarter versus the second quarter of 2011.
In addition a change in our calculation methodology to confirm reporting between CBRE investors and ING REIM decreased AUM in the direct real estate business by $1.6 billion during the quarter versus the second quarter of 2011.
Currency fluctuations further lowered total assets by $600 million compared to the second quarter of 2011.
The third quarter of 2011 total does not include $5 billion of AUM acquired from ING REIM in Asia on October 3 2011.
During the third quarter we completed approximately $900 million of acquisitions and approximately $800 million of dispositions globally.
Year-to-date 2011 we have raised new capital of approximately $1.5 billion and had approximately $2.1 billion of capital to deploy at the end of the quarter.
Our core investments in this business at the end of the quarter totaled a $157.2 million.
Our Global Investment Management EBITDA reconciliation detail is shown on slide 15.
In the third quarter of 2011 we incurred $9.4 billion of expenses related to the ING REIM acquisition primarily for legal and other professional services.
During the quarter we also wrote down the value of two core investments for a total of $4.5 million.
In the third quarter of 2011 we reported $7.4 million of carried interest compensation expense which relates to expected future periods carried interest revenue As of September 30 2011 the company maintains a cumulative accrual of carried interest compensation expense of approximately $33 million which pertains to anticipated future carried interest revenue.
This business operated as a pro forma normalized EBITDA margin of 35% for the third quarter of 2011.
Please turn to slide 16.
Slide 16 shows our amortization and debt maturity schedule for all outstanding debt.
During the third quarter of 2011 we drew down our $400 million Term Loan C to fund the closing of ING REIM Asia and then preparation for closing ING REIM Europe.
The terms are liable plus 325 with 1% annual amortization and maturity in 2018.
We previously announced that we will not be using equity to fund this acquisition.
On October 18 2011 we entered into discussions with our vendors for a new incremental senior secured sterling denominated term loan A1 facility in the amount of approximately $250 million due in May 2016.
With a term substantially similar to our existing term loan A facility.
To-date we have commitments from our bank partners to fund over 90% of those $250 million facility.
We remain very comfortable with our balanced debt maturity profile with no meaningful maturities until 2015.
We’re also pleased with our strong overall balance sheet positions as a provider of the necessary flexibility to take advantage of strategic opportunities as they appear in this early stage of the commercial real estate recovery.
Please turn to slide 17.
Excluding our non-recourse real estate loans mortgage brokerage warehouse facilities and cash within consolidated funds at other entities but not available for company use.
Our total net debt at the end of the third quarter of 2011 was approximately $1.5 billion.
This represents an increase from year-end 2010 primarily due to term loan borrowings to finance the acquisition of ING Clarion Securities.
During the third quarter the company also used $12 million to fund two in-field acquisitions in Europe a retail services business in the United Kingdom and a shopping center management business in the Netherlands.
We will continue to see consolidation pressure in the industry which we believe may present good opportunities for more acquisitions at attract the evaluations.
At September 30th 2011 our weighted average interest rate was approximately 5.5% compared to 6.2% at the end of the second quarter of 2011.
The lower average interest rate was primarily driven by a larger portion of lower interest rate debt due to the term loan borrowings to fund our ING REIM at the end of the second and in the third quarter.
Our leverage ratio on a covenant basis now stands at 1.55 times at the end of the third quarter of 2011 on a trailing 12-month basis.
Our total company net debt to EBITDA stood at 1.98 times which remains just below our current target of 2 times.
We continue to anticipate that this ratio will be approximately 2.5 times post the acquisition of all of ING REIM.
I will now turn the call back over to Brett.
Thank you Gill.
And please turn to slide 18.
Despite foreign debt challenges in Europe and uncertainty in the economic recovery in the U.S.
we continue to believe that we are in the early stages of a cyclical recovery.
Outsourcing fundamentals remained very strong as evidenced by the strong growth this quarter and revenues should continue to grow in the double digits for the intermediate term.
The ING REIM acquisition will provide another significant source of stable growing revenue that will be accretive to our overall EBITDA margin.
In addition we expect to see increased revenue flowing to our other lines of business as the ING REIM operations are integrated.
The final piece of the ING REIM acquisition will close as scheduled during the fourth quarter.
When it does we will hold a special call to discuss that business in much more detail.
Investment Sales should continue to grow due to financing availability for core assets investor appetite per yield and attractiveness of the asset class as an inflation hedge.
Leasing growth rate should revert to historical norms as the economy begins to stabilize.
We remain focused on margins balanced with strategic recruiting in the appropriate service lines and geographies.
We continue to expect EPS to be within our initial guidance range of $0.95 to a $1.05 for the full year.
Our full year normalized EBITDA margin should exceed prior year.
And with that operator we’d like to take questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Anthony Paolone at JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
All right thanks.
Good afternoon guys.
Hi Anthony.
Hi.
Hi.
I’m just curious that thus far into the year why the guidance range is still a dime for basically the last quarter of the year and kind of what would drive the high and low into that band? Well as you know Anthony this is a seasonal business and a very significant component of our earnings come true in Q4.
So it’s a bit more variable than the other quarters arrange therefore it’s a bit wider and I think that it’s – from our standpoint it’s good to give you guys as much guidance as we can but probably foolish to try and tell you that we know within a couple of pennies where it’s going to end up.
Okay but it sounds like you’re pretty confident that the EBITDA margins at least went up higher than they were last year.
And so it suggested a pretty good ramp just compared to what your margins have been year-to-date and I know that’s typically what’s happened but – with lot of concerns over business slowing down just curious how you’re feeling about the ramp being as dramatic as its been in prior years in the fourth quarter? Well as far as I am going to take that what we’ve said which is we expect that we’re going to have full year margin for 2011.
It’s higher than our full year margin for 2010.
And you can do any kind of math you want to do but you’re right that would imply that we are fairly confident around the business lines at the moment and we are.
When you look at the third quarter numbers it’s striking to me that both leasing and sales globally showed good increase sales only in the U.S.
but Leasing in all three geographies.
And again as I think as you know you Anthony if there’s one good leading indicator of job growth and of growth I think in the revenues for this industry you probably pick Leasing because these are large corporate customers entering the marketplace committing to long term space leases.
So we like what we saw on the third quarter.
We particular like that the Leasing numbers held up quite well and that’s about as far as I think I can take that.
Okay just one last question on that topic.
You didn’t have any expenses relating to cost reductions in the quarter and it sounds like on the last conference call things had slowed enough that you guys would consider some cost initiatives.
It sounded like – did you not have to do that or did they just not cost money or what’s the status there? Right.
Well as we said on the last call we actually began work on costs in the late second quarter and we ramped up those efforts a bit at the end of the second quarter right around the time of our conference call.
So we have not changed of course on that.
Again and that’s all about driving an acceptable level of growth in our margins.
But in terms of the accounting rental there Gil do you want to say anything there or..? Yeah I think there’s two points first of all one of major actions we took was to slow hiring which would obviously not have had cost associated with it and then there were some cost associated with getting cost out but not material enough to call out of normalized.
Okay got you.
And then just on the Outsourcing business it seems like the healthcare and government opportunities has been redeemed now for a while and it seems to be pretty strong just wondering how much is left there if there’s any way just to quantify the opportunity? And also similarly in Asia and Europe where the growth just seems to be very strong and as a percentage of the total Outsourcing part is still fairly strong.
Right.
Well the first your first question on healthcare and government these are massive massive opportunities both here I United States and outside the States and I will say that the outsourcing of that type of work we’ve just begun the scratch the surface.
We believe we have a particular competency in this healthcare space brought to us from the Trammell Crow acquisition.
You may recall Anthony or perhaps you don’t but Trammell Crow had a very deep and very specific healthcare outsourcing business.
They did Baylor down in Texas they still have that account and that expertise really jump-started our firms exploitation of that market.
As it pertains to outside the United States in terms of why that growth rate is high and what we expect for the future remember first of all there’s been virtually no outsourcing in those two geographies historically.
I think the seminal point here or the data point that’s most interesting to us is that it appears that this is a trend that has now caught on and we saw some very large pieces of business in those geographies led of course by our Pru business in the UK.
But I think that we’re finally at that point where large European and it’s primarily European lesser extent Asian customers are embracing the concept.
Got you.
Is there – can you give us any sense as to what the incremental EBITDA margins are in the Outsourcing business right now does that grows? Yeah Outsourcing unlike the other transaction businesses is very much a cost first business so let me just first say you’re not going to see the delta in incremental margins in Outsourcing that you’re going to stay in Leasing or sales where we can onboard lease revenues and sale revenues with zero additional cost other than commission.
In Outsourcing those structural margins you see in Outsourcing of low teens are probably close to what they probably are what the incremental margins are or less as because as I said many times you onboard the cost before you get the revenues.
But though that having been said if you just keep in your model margins for general outsourcing in the low double-digits you’re going to get it right.
Okay thank you.
You bet.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Thanks.
Hi Brandon.
Hi Brandon I guess one kind of a derivative question off of from one of the previous ones.
As you guys looked at the close rate for both Leasing and sales deals during the quarter how did it stack up versus I guess your expectations given the overall macro noise or historical quarters? Just trying to get a sense about how predictable you think the business is right now looking out three months? Sure.
Well first of all to your specific question in and I’ll use here the U.S.
data first in the U.S.
sales velocity so number of transactions in the quarter was about 18% higher than the same quarter in 2010.
In Leasing it was about flat although Leasing pickup in revenue came from leased sites in other words square footage.
Okay.
And what we look for in these numbers as an indicator of future quarters is a couple of things.
First trending so for instance we would look at Q1 Q2 Q3 and see if there is a trend there our Leasing revenues going up are they going down.
Same thing for sales and what we’re taking away from all that is that it is we’re getting to that point where Leasing is going to begin operating in normal way.
And that’s not 20% or 30% growth a year it’s probably high singles low doubles.
On the sales side we just continue be impressed with the increases in sale revenues flowing through the business in the States.
I don’t have any reason to expect that they’re going to maintain that level but I think they’ll be good.
I also believe that the sale business will pick up fairly soon in EMEA again and in Asia Pacific.
So we look forward and we see a decent business out there for the transaction businesses.
Well let me follow on that one for a second maybe you have the sources your confidence for EMEA and Asia Pac sales picking up is it just resolution on some of the sovereign debt issues or do you think there is just more just deferral demand as some of this noise filters through and there’s just too much kind of yield chasing going on? Well it’s a combination of those things and others but I would say Brandon the first place I’d go to answer that question is I look at history and what we know about the capital markets is that generally speaking the capital markets just call a time out almost instantly when there is a large amount of uncertainty in the marketplace about resolving something.
If it’s the bid ask if it’s an event of some sort in this case the sovereign debt issues in Europe capital markets move very quickly.
You can cancel the sales in one minute phone call and once that uncertainty goes away it doesn’t really matter directionally where it goes once buyers and sellers believe that they can forecast their future a bit better typically and historically that capital markets business returns.
So if I just use history as a lesson or a guide here I would say that there’s more certainty now that this can’s been kicked down the road a bit maybe not sold forever but sold for a while and that should bring some enthusiasm back to that European sale market.
Fair enough.
And then I guess can you reiterate the confidence around closing the balance of the ING business by year end didn’t really change from the last time that you guys have talked about this but there must be some reasons you’re confident that that deal gets done the next six seven weeks or so maybe it’s the source of that confidence or you just think it’s more to stopping the eyes at this point versus anything major to get your arms around? Excuse me.
All I’ll say on that Brandon is that that deal should close in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then final question from me within the Outsourcing business obviously a lot of space and lot of clients onboarded during the quarter I mean should we assume that given your comments around flow of business in Asia Pac and Europe that similar magnitude of onboarding the next couple three quarters and these deals kind of maybe they don’t take two weeks to onboard but take a little bit longer than that.
So I mean is this quarter indicative of one or two quarter trend or do you think it’s got more legs than that right now? Well first of all it’s impossible to say.
The way that these contracts go out it’s all about a very formal RFP process.
I’ll tell you our pipelines look quite robust.
I also got to tell you that if you had told me a year ago that we’d see these growth rates in Outsource I would have told you you’re out of your mind.
These are historically high growth rates in Outsourcing.
It’s hard for me to believe that they can be maintained yet.
I’ve been wrong now for two quarters.
So there is something very fundamental going on in this Outsourcing business and I think its two things.
One I think that in difficult markets and we kind of went from enthusiasm in the markets to despair this year in difficult markets there is a real momentum around Outsourcing to reduce cost.
The second I think more important dynamic here is that we believe and of course everyone else will say it’s about their firm but we believe we have a clear competitive advantage in this business than we’ve had in the past and our win rate which is close to a 100% I think demonstrates that.
So we feel good we feel positive about that Outsourcing space.
I think it’s become a very very big piece of our overall story and I don’t see anything the moment in terms of headwinds in that space.
Okay thanks a lot.
And our next question comes from the line of Kemp Sloan Bohlen with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Brett to your comment on the European situation may be getting solved a little bit for a while I guess how do you plan the business based on how long that well could be and basically I guess I’ll ask the question from a standpoint of what do you guys view as the shape of the recovery particularly on the brokerage side from here? Do you feel like we’ve kind of hit a bottom and now ramp up particularly as companies are looking for yield on the sale side or on the hiring front from the Leasing side maybe just general comments there.
Well I suppose well first of all this is a very tough question to answer and we’re in the process at the moment putting off together our 2012 budgets and that’s ground up by the Sloan.
So I’ll be learning and Gil and our team will be learning a lot more over the next month month and half about how our – each country each city feels in Europe about that question.
I would say in absence of that data which we don’t have yet it would – I think be logical to forecast that we’re going to go back to this incremental recovery that we talked about at the last five quarters on this call that incremental recovery being probably something that’s a growth rate less than the hockey stick but growth nonetheless.
And that’s as far as I want to take it right now because we’re as I said we don’t have the data yet and maybe we should wait till we see what those pipelines look like before we give an answer to that specifically.
Okay.
And maybe I’ll frame it this way though.
You talked about the leverage on the balance sheet post the ING REIM getting to 2.5 times debt-to-EBITDA.
For acquisition or opportunities beyond that is there a level of leverage that you’d be comfortable with taking the balance sheet at this point in the cycle? Well it depends entirely on the type of acquisition we would be looking at.
So and let me be more clear if we’re looking at a transformative acquisition which we have lots of experience in and we were dead certain what the expense synergies would be and what the cash flow from that acquisition would be we’d probably comfortable in levering up to make that acquisition.
With the construct we would de-lever as fast as we could.
And that’s been our model Sloan which is we’re not afraid to lever up to get the right kind of acquisition but there’s very few acquisitions of any size that we would probably do right now to take at sort of that level of net debt-to-EBITDA.
Our sweet spot what we want to maintain over the long-term our net debt to EBITDA something between 1.5 and 2 times and so we levered up a bit for ING.
In the absence of a transformative acquisition you should expect that ratio be coming down until we hit our comfort range again.
I’d also tell that Sloan we’re not any more the company that’s comfortable with four times which we were back at the MBO and back in 2001.
I think those days are far behind us.
Okay.
And then maybe one last question just on what you thought if any big shifts in market share there were in the quarter? It seem like your results definitely a lot better than what I think a lot of the market data would have been telling us? Yeah I think that we definitely picked up share in Outsourcing there is no doubt about that.
In the Leasing and sale business it’s harder to say.
In the sale business in the U.S.
no question we picked up share and that’s been documented by the publications that follow the capital markets in the States.
Hard to tell in Asia and Europe we need to see couple of competitors who are poor before if I can give you a better answer on that.
My guess is that on the share side in Europe and Asia Outsourcing we may pick up some share Leasing probably sales I don’t know.
Okay.
All right thank you.
Thank you.
And now we’ll go to the line of Will Marks with JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon Brett and Gil and Nick.
On that last question about market share on the Leasing side you mentioned earlier that velocity flat square footage what about rental rate? Flat.
Flat.
So it’s really all about square footage? At the moment which I like by the way Will.
What that tells you and I is that we’ve got some bullish customers out there who are for whatever reason are taking more space than they – and by the way it was 10% was the increase in amount of space taken Q3 2011 over Q3 2010.
I like that...
Is it on a global basis? That’s U.S.
Okay.
And I don’t have that data globally we don’t have that data.
But I think is a good proxy though for global.
And also the fact that rents didn’t go down the fact that we got that growth with flat rent I like that because we have been saying and we continue to believe that we’re going to see vacancy rates decline over the next three quarters and rental rates begin to inch up and as they do that’s free revenue it you don’t have to work any harder to earn more revenue in the Leasing business when rates go up.
Yes that makes sense thank you.
Balancing question looks like the net debt change from end of second quarter end of third was about $300 million I think.
Can you clarify that or confirm that and then mention what remind us what you paid through the third end of third quarter for ING and then what the cash flow would be which I guess we could figure out? Yeah at the end of the second quarter we had $400 million of term debt that was raised but we’re sitting on the balance sheet.
We hadn’t spent that cash until July 1 for Clarion Securities and then by the end of the third quarter we had drawn down the term loan C for $400 million.
We only spent $65 million of it in Asia with $335 still sitting on the balance sheet and that is to go to ING REIM at Europe in part.
So that’s the movement.
Okay.
And I think so there I guess had to have been some positive cash flow in the quarter? There was.
Okay.
Operating cash flow as well yes.
Okay thank you.
And let’s see on Outsourcing I wanted to ask you give these figures now by region that there is no way to tie that to the earlier page in your slides where you show the various categories the various lines of business right? No you’re talking about the revenue pie chart versus the America’s Asia regional breakout.
They were tying total yes it’s on the same basis Property Management and Facilities Management fees.
There’s no sale or lease in those numbers obviously.
They’re on...
I’m sorry so the total Property &amp; Facility Management line should the $522 million for the quarter should be the sum of the Outsourcing for the three regions? Yes.
Okay sorry I hadn’t done the math.
Thank you.
Last question on the margin you’ve talked about the how the full year should be above full year 2010.
I guess I haven’t really heard why third quarter would be down 120 basis points in light of the revenue growth in light of the high margin part of ING added to the platform and maybe I think you mentioned something about Europe but maybe you could add to that a little bit? Yeah Will there’s several items.
The large ones are when you look year-over-year we had carried interest expense this year in the third quarter of $7.4 million versus a reversal last year of $1.4 million and then we had $8.6 million of legal and insurance reserves primarily related to our Valuation business and primarily dating to development on claims that go all the way back to the downturn.
So if you so Will if you take those numbers that $17.6 million total and these unusual one-time items if you were to normalize those out we didn’t but if you were we will report a 21% EBITDA growth on a margin of close to 14%.
Okay I’m sorry I thought those had already been taken out to get to the adjusted EBITDA of $190 million but they weren’t right? No we just called them out so you could do the math.
Right sorry I missed that.
Okay that’s all for me.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
Thank you.
And next we’ll go to line of David Ridley Lane with Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Sure.
As the European banks seek to shrink their balance sheets do you see some opportunity for you around that process? Absolutely.
And I’d be disappointed if we didn’t capture a good amount of the asset disposition business and we’re obviously very well positioned to do that.
And I guess just sort of thinking about what is the minimal level of Investment Sales you need to hit kind of lower end of your guidance range? Yeah it’s – I never thought about it that way but it’s not a lot.
The Investment Sales incremental additional earnings where the Investments Sales were up 10% or 15% just isn’t that big but I don’t know the answer that question.
Okay all right that’s helpful.
And some of the Appraisal &amp; Valuation work you’re doing given you a bit more optimism i.e.
the large portfolio assignments I guess those sorts of things that might turn into transactions in the fourth quarter or are they more longer-term than that? I don’t think it means anything about fourth quarter but I do think it’s just another data point that tells us we’re probably again balancing along that bottom place and looking for better things to come.
But that’s as far as I would take to and extrapolate that data.
Okay.
And then you slowed the hiring of brokers in the quarter do you have a rough idea of what broker head count is up year-over-year in the third quarter? It’s pretty stable year-to-date versus prior.
I don’t have the data broken out by quarter with me.
I think that and just David to be clear on that the bidding once jest about hiring brokers is a kind of a silly thing.
I don’t think for any firm it moves the needle but because other firms were making a very big deal about hiring three brokers here or five brokers there we started getting questions from some of you about what we had done and so we reluctantly began talking about the hiring of brokers.
But I would just caution even on the call that it doesn’t – first of all it never moves the needle for the first couple of years because you got to pay something to get most of these people and even once those that’s been amortized off I can’t imagine there is a firm that’s so small that you guys follow that are hiring 20 brokers or 30 brokers in a year matters because your attrition is going to be probably that or more.
Okay.
All right that’s all from me.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
And we have a follow-up question from Anthony Paolone.
Please go ahead.
All right thanks.
Just I was curious what you paid for those couple of European what like retail oriented service companies and just in terms of dollar amounts and just rough valuation metrics? I’ll give you the latter and not the former.
So valuations at the moment for those kinds of businesses after the synergies will be extracted from them you should expect those to be in the single digits.
Some we’re looking at right now are coming in low call it the five six range.
Others that are more mature business more stable type of cash flow are coming at the higher end of that single-digit range.
But the M&amp;A market at the moment is surprisingly active at the small end.
I mean I think we all get it at the big end there are some really distressed companies out there in our space but at the small end there seem to be more and more small companies that are concluding that it just isn’t possible to compete any more as a small company and joining the large firm whether it’s us Sir Jones Lang or somebody else it’s probably a better way to take care of their customers.
I would tell you the total amount we spent on those in-fields was $12 million.
Gil just pointed out to me it’s actually in his script for the call.
So I guess we did call that out and it’s $12 million.
Oh thank you.
Sorry I didn’t catch that.
That’s all right.
And then just a follow-up to some of the commentary you just made any sense of some of those bigger platforms that you mentioned that are more stretched at the moment in terms of any of those potentially shaking loose in the next 12 months? I just don’t know.
It’s – I think we’re all watching with interest those firms and wondering how that’s all going to play out and I think it’s very uncertain at the moment how that’s going to play out.
I’ll tell you that and by the way they’re all good companies just different strategies.
But what it has done which I will comment about is it has certainly provided the larger staple firms with a good pool of talent to recruit.
Okay.
Thank you.
And I have no further questions in queue.
Great.
Well thanks again for your time.
We’ll talk to you next quarter.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the fourth quarter earnings call.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I'll now turn the conference over to Nick Kormeluk of Investor Relations.
About an hour ago we issued a press release announcing our 2011 financial results.
This release is available on the homepage of our website at www.cbre.com.
This conference call is being webcast and is available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Also available is a presentation slide deck which you can use to follow along with our prepared remarks.
An archive audio of the webcast and a PDF version of the slide presentation will be posted to the website later today and a transcript of our call will be posted tomorrow.
Please turn to the slide labeled Forward Looking Statements.
This presentation contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements regarding our future growth momentum operations financial performance business outlook and ability to successfully integrate ING REIM businesses.
These statements should be considered as estimates only and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Except to the extent required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forward-looking statements that you may hear today.
Please refer to our fourth quarter earnings report filed on Form 8-K our current annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q in particular any discussion of risk factors or forward-looking statements which are filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's website sec.gov for a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any estimates you may hear today.
We may make certain statements during the course of this presentation which include references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations.
As required by these regulations we have provided reconciliations of these measures to what we believe are the most directly comparable GAAP measures which are attached hereto within the appendix.
Please turn to Slide 3.
Participating with me today are Brett White our Chief Executive Officer; and Gil Borok our Chief Financial Officer.
I’ll now turn the call over to Brett.
Thank you Nick.
Welcome everybody and please turn to Slide 4.
The cyclical recovery in commercial real estate is now entering its third year.
As we predicted in late 2010 the current recovery is slower more uneven and more difficult to forecast than those we've experienced in the past.
As a result the relative contributions from our various service lines and geographies in 2011 were a bit different than we had originally envisioned.
Nevertheless we provided earnings guidance at the outset of 2011 reaffirmed that guidance during the course of the year and now have produced full year results at the high end of our guidance range.
We are pleased with this outcome.
It underscores our ability to deliver on the expectations we set for our shareholders as we do for our clients.
And we thank and acknowledge our CBRE colleagues around the world for another in a series of terrific years.
For the full year 2011 revenue increased 15% to almost $6 billion.
And normalized EBITDA increased to $803 million both second best in company history behind 2007.
Normalized EBITDA margin for the year grew to 13.6%.
Normalized diluted earnings per share came in at $1.03 which is almost 40% above full year 2010 and as I mentioned near the top end of our $0.95 to $1.05 guidance range.
Total Q4 2011 revenues were $1.8 billion a 7% increase over Q4 2010 with positive revenue growth in every region.
Outsourcing growth continued its strong pace with a total increase of 14% and double-digit contributions from all regions.
Investment sales revenue increased 10% driven by continued growth in the Americas and Asia-Pacific while EMEA remained relatively flat in light of continued sovereign debt issues in the region.
While recent revenues exceeded 2007 peak levels for the full year in Q4 2011 they declined 4% as compared to Q4 2010.
This decline resulted from a decrease in the Americas while EMEA and Asia-Pacific leasing continued to grow.
The decrease in Americas leasing compares to Q4 2010 that grew 45% versus Q4 2009 and was also indicative of the continued lack of meaningful U.S.
job growth.
Asset management fees more than doubled primarily due to contributions from businesses acquired from ING during the year.
These revenue gains were partially offset by a lack of carried interest revenue which was almost $20 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Normalized EBITDA increased to $350 million in Q4 2011 from $253 million in Q4 2010.
Our Q4 normalized EBITDA margin was 17.8% versus 15.3% in Q4 2010.
This very impressive 250 basis point margin expansion was partially attributable to cost reduction actions we took during and preceding Q4 2011 some of which were reflected in the $31 million cost containment charge we recorded during the quarter.
We are cautiously optimistic that the recovery will improve in 2012 but our onboarding new expense at a measured pace in order to protect and enhance margins and profitability in 2012.
Some have been most notable transactions we completed during or immediately following the quarter are shown here on Slide 5.
As usual I will not go through them individually but we have included them for your review.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to Gil to go over the financial results in detail.
Gil? Thank you Brett.
Please advance to Slide 6.
As Brett already mentioned total revenue was $1.8 billion for the fourth quarter of 2011 up 7% from last year.
This increase was driven by growth in outsourcing investment sales investment management commercial mortgage brokerage and development services.
Normalized EBITDA grew at a much faster pace than revenue up 24% to $314.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 from $253.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 delivering a normalized EBITDA margin of 17.8% our highest quarterly normalized EBITDA margin since the second quarter of 2007.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 in our regional segments we recognized cost containment expenses totaling $31.1 million of which $20 million was in cost of services and $11.1 million was in operating expenses.
The Americas totaled $15.6 million EMEA totaled $11.1 million and Asia-Pacific totaled $4.4 million.
These costs were predominantly related to severance for approximately 500 positions globally.
This action was taken to calibrate our staffing levels to the current market environment and was executed with care to among other things and showed no impact on the delivery of client service.
We expect resulting savings of approximately $40 million in 2012 from these actions.
Our cost of services increased to 57.2% of total revenue in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus 56.4% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Excluding the impact of the cost containment expenses just mentioned cost of services as a percentage of revenue was 56.1% for the fourth quarter of 2011 a slight decrease versus 56.3% in the prior-year quarter.
Fourth quarter 2011 operating expenses were 34.2% of total revenue versus 31.6% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Excluding the impact of the cost containment expenses and integration in other costs related to ING REIM operating expenses as a percentage of revenue were 31% for the fourth quarter of 2011 a slight decrease versus 31.2% in the prior-year quarter.
This decrease was despite the inclusion of ING REIM operating expenses all of which flow to the operating expense line as oppose to cost of services.
Interest expense increased slightly by $1.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus the fourth quarter of 2010 primarily due to the ING REIM and sterling term loan A1 financings partially offset by lower interest rates resulting from our refinancing activities in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our fourth quarter 2011 tax rate was approximately 38% resulting in a full year tax rate of approximately 40%.
We expect the full year 2012 tax rate to be slightly below 2011's rate primarily due to a mix shift from the inclusion of ING REIM for a full year.
Our Q4 2011 GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.25 versus $0.30 last year.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.46 versus $0.36 in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Please turn to Slide 7.
Due in part to seasonality and even with a 4% percent decline on a year-over-year basis leasing was our largest service line in the fourth quarter of 2011 with revenue of $590.8 million and represented 33% of total company revenue in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The 4% decrease was partly due to a tough comparison in the U.S.
versus the fourth quarter of 2010.
Leasing revenue for the full year 2011 set a new record for the company at $1.91 billion surpassing the 2007 peak revenue year of $1.87 billion.
Property and facilities management was our second largest service line in the fourth quarter of 2011 representing 31% of total revenue in the quarter with a 14% increase over the fourth quarter of 2010.
Investment sales showed a solid increase of 10% in the fourth quarter of 2011 and accounted for 18% of fourth quarter 2011 revenues in its seasonally strongest quarter.
Appraisal and valuation revenue was relatively flat as compared to last year at $108.9 million due to an outside valuation fee recorded in China in the prior year fourth quarter largely offset by an acquisition in Asia-Pacific in the second quarter of 2011 and higher revenues in EMEA.
Global investment and management revenue increased 44% quarter-over-quarter driven by increases in asset management fees largely attributable to the ING REIM businesses that we acquired.
Commercial mortgage brokerage revenue posted one of our strongest quarterly year-over-year increases with 25% growth driven by strong capital availability also low interest rates competitive spreads and investors continued search for yield.
Development services revenue was up 7%.
Revenue from property and facilities management fees for assets under management loan servicing fees and leasing commissions from existing clients are all largely recurring.
This revenue comprised approximately 56% of total revenue for the fourth quarter of 2011.
Please turn to Slide 8.
Outsourcing business growth remains strong this quarter with revenue up 14% versus the fourth quarter of 2010.
This was driven by new account growth client renewals and expansions as well as acquisitions in EMEA.
Strong performance was evident across all regions particularly EMEA and Asia Pacific.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 contract activity remains solid with 13 year account signed 10 renewals and 10 expansions.
We are very pleased to cross a major performance milestone in outsourcing in 2011 that being the $2 billion revenue mark.
We are even more pleased that there is plenty of room to grow this business line particularly outside the Americas.
And we continue to target higher milestone.
Slide 9 demonstrate the stabilized or improving vacancy rates and positive absorption in all three market sectors depicted along with our forecasted improvement over the next two years.
Average national office cap rates remained stable in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus the third quarter of 2011 and showed slight year-over-year improvement primarily due to strength in core and Class A property sales.
Please turn to Slide 10.
Sales revenue in the Americas continued to be strong with a 15% increase in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our U.S.
Investment Sales market shared totaled 16.4% for the fourth quarter of 2011 according to real capital analytics which represented a significant 110 basis points improvement versus the fourth quarter of 2010 market share of 15.3%.
Our lead over the number two firm was more than 500 basis points.
Our Americas leasing revenue decreased 9% in the fourth quarter of 2011 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 largely due to a tough comparison with the fourth quarter of 2010 when revenue rose 45% as compared to the fourth quarter of 2009 and as a result of our lack of meaningful employment growth.
During the fourth quarter of 2011 the U.S.
occupancy rates fell by 20 basis points to 16% from the third quarter of 2011.
The Americas outsourcing business grew 10% in the fourth quarter of 2011 and full year Americas outsourcing revenue improved 12% in 2011.
Please turn to Slide 11.
Our EMEA investment sales revenue was relatively flat in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus the fourth quarter of 2010.
Pockets of strength were evident in Northern Europe.
CBRE's EMEA leasing revenue grew 11% in the fourth quarter of 2011 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
These positive results were achieved despite heightened macro economic issues in the region and were driven by Germany Spain and the United Kingdom.
Outsourcing continued its strong rate with revenue increasing 17% in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus the fourth quarter of 2010 driven by new assignment.
However revenue mix shift into outsourcing did have a slightly negative impact on EMEAs normalized EBITDA margins this quarter which was mitigated through cost controls resulting in an overall normalized EBITDA margin increase as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Please turn to Slide 12.
CBRE sales revenue in Asia Pacific increased 11% in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus the fourth quarter of 2010 primarily driven by China and Japan.
CBRE’s leasing revenue in Asia Pacific grew 3% in the fourth quarter of 2011 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
The strongest gains came from Australia Japan and India partially offset by Singapore where the market has cooled as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Asia Pacific saw outsourcing growth of 36% in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus the fourth quarter of 2010 as it continues to gain adoption in this region.
The strongest contributions were from Australia China and India.
Asia Pacific's fourth quarter 2011 normalized EBITDA margin was negatively impacted as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 due to the outsized valuation we recorded  in China in the prior year as well as the expansion in that country.
Please turn to slide 13.
Revenue for the Development Services segment increased 15% to $22.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus $19.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 primarily due to higher development in project management fees.
Operating results for the fourth quarter of 2011 reflected normalized EBITDA of $52.1 million a significant improvement over prior year that was driven by the sale of several high quality assets including two of particular note in the Houston and Dallas markets respectively.
These two sales contributed approximately $33 million of net gain to the company in the fourth quarter of 2011.
At year end 2011 in process development totaled $4.9 billion and the pipeline totaled $1.2 billion.
At the end of the year our equity co-investments in the development services business totaled $79.2 million.
Please turn to Slide 14.
Let me quickly recap for you the pertinent details of our ING REIM acquisition.
On July 1 2011 we closed on ING Clarion Real Estate Securities for $324 million and $59 million in co-investments.
On October 3 2011 we closed on ING REIM Asia for $46 million and $14 million in co-investments.
On October 31 2011 we closed on ING REIM Europe for $443 million and $7 million in co-investments.
This totaled $813 million in purchase price and $80 million in co-investments as well as $67 million in transaction and integration costs through yearend.
The assets under management or AUM associated with this acquisition were $62.4 billion as calculated at yearend 2011.
The remaining potential cash needs for this acquisition are additional purchase price of approximately $80 million if certain assets are transferred to us up to approximately $70 million in potential additional co-investments and approximately $79 million in additional transaction and integration costs.
The total cost of this transaction including these remaining potential costs is in line with our original estimates.
As you may recall we financed the acquisition with cash and two $400 million tranches of term loans during 2018 and 2019 respectively that are at terms of LIBOR plus 325 and 350 respectively and no liable floors.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 our global investment management segment's revenue was up 35% to $107.8 million from $79.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The increase resulted from higher asset management fees primarily stemming from the inclusion of ING REIM which contributed approximately $60 million in revenue in the fourth quarter of 2011.
This contribution was partially offset by the absence of any carried interest revenue in the quarter.
In last year's fourth quarter we recognized $19.9 million of carried interest revenue as well as moderately higher acquisition fees and rental revenue.
AUM totaled $94.1 billion at the end of the fourth quarter of 2011 up about 150% from yearend 2010 primarily due to the inclusion of ING REIM assets added in the fourth quarter which totaled $41.1 billion.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 total AUM in the direct real estate business was impacted by $1.2 billion of asset acquisitions other than ING REIM $2.1 billion of dispositions and transfers and $100 million of improvement in asset values.
In addition currency fluctuations lowered AUM by $1 billion for the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the full year 2011 in the direct real estate business we raised new capital of approximately $2.5 billion and had approximately $2.7 billion of capital to deploy at the end of the fourth quarter of 2011.
Included in the $94.1 billion in AUM at the end of 2011 was $19.8 billion of listed securities.
Net inflows and changes in market valuation of the securities portfolio increased AUM by $1.3 billion in the quarter versus the third quarter of 2011.
Our co-investments in this business at the end of the quarter totaled $169.6 million.
Our global investment management EBITDA reconciliation detail is shown on Slide 15.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 we incurred $45 million of expenses related to the ING REIM acquisitions primarily for legal and other professional services retention and severance.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 we recorded $10.5 million of carried interest compensation expense which relates to carried interest revenue that we expect to realize in future periods.
As of December 31 2011 the company maintained a cumulative accrual of carried interest compensation expense of approximately $44 million which pertains to anticipated future carried interest revenue.
This business operated at a pro forma normalized EBITDA margin of 25% for the fourth quarter of 2011.
The decrease as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 was a result of reduced carried interest revenue the reversal of a significant provision for doubtful accounts related to a specific fund and larger equity earnings in the prior-year fourth quarter partially offset by the EBITDA contribution from ING REIM.
Please turn to Slide 16.
Slide 16 shows the amortization and debt maturity schedule for all outstanding debt.
On November 10 2011 we closed on a senior secured sterling-denominated term loan A1 facility in the amount of approximately $300 million due in May 2016 with favorable returns substantially similar to our existing term loan A facility.
We remain very comfortable with our balance debt maturity profile with no meaningful maturities until 2015.
We're also please with our strong overall balance sheet position as it provides us the flexibility to capitalize on additional strategic growth opportunities and other corporate initiatives.
Please turn into Slide 17.
Excluding cash within consolidated funds and other entities not available for company use our non-recourse real estate loans and mortgage brokerage warehouse facilities our total net debt at the end of 2011 was approximately $1.6 billion.
This represents an increase from yearend 2010 primarily due to term loan borrowings to finance the acquisition of ING REIM.
At yearend 2011 our weighted average interest rate was approximately 5.3% compared to 5.5% at the end of the third quarter of 2011.
The lower average interest rate was primarily driven by the senior secured sterling term loan A1 completed in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our leverage ratio on a covenant basis now stands at 1.53 times at the end of 2011 on a trailing 12-month basis.
Our total company net debt to EBITDA stood at 2.05 times which is significantly lower than the 2.5 times we projected that this ratio would be following the acquisition of all of ING REIM.
I will now turn the call back over to Brett.
Thank you Gil.
And please turn to Slide 18.
We believe that the commercial real estate market will continue to recover in 2012 despite continued macro challenges.
As for our business we expect to grow both earnings and normalized EBITDA margins even in this soft transaction environment.
Outsourcing of revenue is likely to grow in the low-double digits one of the faster growth rates among our service lines.
Investment sales will grow in line with a broader economic recovery with core assets still being the driver but with increasing contribution from secondary market recoveries.
Leasing growth rates will likely be modest and heavily weighted toward the third and fourth quarters.
Any revenue increase in this business would be driven by meaningful employment growth and rental rate improvement in the Americas and elsewhere.
EBITDA in investment management will be higher than 2011 due to full year impact of the businesses acquired from ING while development services EBITDA will be lower due to large gains Gil mentioned we achieved in 2011.
By taking advantage of the revenue growth drivers just mentioned and continuing our focus on effective cost controls our goal is to again achieve 2012 normalized EBITDA margins greater than we achieved in 2011.
It is important to note that 2012 performance is likely to be more backend loaded than usual due to the slow transaction environment we have experienced in the heightened market uncertainty.
Our outlook for 2012 assumes a pickup in job growth economic activity and sentiment by the summer.
Giving due consideration to all of these factors as well as anticipated higher interest depreciation and amortization expense mainly as a result of the inclusion of ING REIM for the full year we currently anticipate that full year 2012 normalized earnings per share will be in the range of $1.20 to $1.25.
As we told you last year forecasting EPS in an environment such as this is exceptionally difficult.
We may very well update this guidance throughout the year as full year trends become clear.
With that operator we're ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from Anthony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Gil I was wondering if you could help us with the OpEx and just cleaning that up and taking out some of the things like the severance and just charges related to ING and so forth and give us a sense as to where that number on clean basis was in the quarter and how to think about these cost cuts going into 2012.
Tony I think the best way to talk through it is to go back to my comments which suggested that if you take out the cost containment expenses that are in operating expenses we get to a percentage of revenue that's 31% on a comparable basis to prior year of 31.2%.
And that would take out what we've normalized essentially in the operating expense line.
And in that line I think we have $11 million of such costs.
So whatever is on the P&amp;L you can take $11 million out for OpEx for cost containment.
And in addition we have about $45 million of integration cost in that line associated with ING REIM.
So a total of about $55 million.
And you mentioned $40 million of savings in 2012 from the severance that you talked about in the quarter.
Is there more to come there? Where are you with those expense cuts? The $40 million is the savings from the action taken in the fourth quarter which approximates to about 500 positions.
So that's the run rate savings in '12 or full year savings that we project from these actions.
And at the moment that's what we have taken to rightsize expense against where we think revenues are going to be against the market environment.
So you're done in terms of those cost initiatives for now? Correct.
On the leasing side do you have a sense as to how your market share was in the key regions? We believe that as we've mentioned before that we are by far leasing brokerage from in those financial world markets.
I don't believe it has changed anywhere over the past few years.
It is absolutely true and we're excited about this.
For a long time we've got a competitor that is really nipping at our heels at leasing in certain markets and it's great to have them.
It's been a while since we've had anyone really anywhere where we're at in leasing business and we look forward to a good fight for share going forward.
But I would say that we picked up decent share in most markets and we remained by a pretty good margin the number one leasing firm in most of the major world markets.
When you look at your comps versus some of your competitors for the quarter Brett are you still satisfied by the performance there and really chalk it up to the tough comp from back in 2010 or do you think that's a business that is simply getting more competitive as you alluded to with competitor nipping at your heels? I think the quarter is somewhat irrelevant.
I think the full year numbers are more relevant.
But the trend you're referring to exists in the full year numbers as well.
And I think there is a lot of things going on in those numbers and it's different by geography both globally and within the United States.
I think the bottomline for us is we have a very very strong commercial leasing business in most of the major world markets but there is no doubt that it's getting more competitive everyday.
And I think what you're going to see by the way is and this is very consistent with what we've been talking about for years this business is rapidly consolidating down to a very small number of players.
And the trend you're referring to that player along with us I believe is going to capture the vast majority of the available share going forward.
And I suspect the quarter-over-quarter year-over-year those numbers will move a bit back and forth.
That trend is absolute.
And I suspect that the mid-tier firms and the smaller firms you're just going to see them lose more and more share every quarter and every year and move more of that share on board to these two firms that are the demonstrated market leaders.
I think I'm pleased with the position we have in the major markets and I think that at the same time we've got a lot of work to do to retain that number one position in every major world market because it's under attack everywhere and it's something that we pay attention to.
But yes I'm generally pleased with results.
On the outsourcing side the gross rate there has been quite high and I was wondering if you can break that out between how much of it is being driven from added contracts versus pricing say changes for existing contracts or say existing client expanding contract? In Gil's script he mentioned the number new contracts the number of expansions.
And Gil do you want to just remind me with what those numbers where? Yes I have it for the quarter Brett.
Do you have full year or no? I don't have the full year handy but we disclosed it every quarter Anthony.
And so for the quarter it was? For the quarter I believe it was 13 new 10 renewals and 10 expansion.
And I would say that the general story on the corporate services space at the moment is that this does remain a very very competitive marketplace and there are lots of players that are in that marketplace.
We believe we capture a very good share of that space both in terms of new clients entering market but also when existing clients to go re-bid.
And I don't have the statistic for the fourth quarter.
Our loss rate is almost zero.
It's a very very rare day that a client terminates us in that space and goes with somebody else and we un-board it in 2011 and particularly in the fourth quarter some very impressive clients.
I think what you're going to see Anthony in 2012 and going forward is that this market is advancing much more quickly than we thought it would.
That's good news and it's advancing globally also more quickly than we thought it would and that's also very good news.
Yet its no secret to you these contracts come with significant upfront cost and they can be punishing to short term margins although we price them and make absolutely certain as we price them that one those accounts stabilize their run rates margins are very good.
But you're going to see I think forever and going forward and you've seen in 2011 that these are very expensive accounts that come in with real cost and for quarter or two they can materially hurt a margins a bit but if you have an no problem they're hit and run rate we can cover all that more with the terrific performance of the existing accounts.
But we're really really excited about that business.
And you saw that more than half of our gross in the fourth quarter came from outsourcing.
So its been extremely helpful to the company as well as you know last four years.
My question is more towards I appreciate all that colors I wonder that well but when I look at for instance the 14% growth in revenue year-over-year is it 10% or 14% is from adding contracts or expanding contracts.
Or if you have an existing contract for say 1 million square feet and they renew for 1 million square feet how much of that growth is from just charging them more for that.
I don't have the numbers in front of me so this is going to be a gross generalization.
It's a rare day that our outsourcing contract renews and we get paid more for doing the same work.
We got paid to time before.
These clients are heavily heavily focused on cost that's why they put the contracts out and every time you renew it they're grind.
So I would just tell you that in this business the ability to push pricing is almost non-existent which wouldn't therefore extrapolate to that 14% being primarily new accounts or the addition of new services to existing accounts.
Now that is where the renewals get exciting for us because once we prove ourselves with newer generation accounts we are allowed to perform additional services to them and many times the additional services could bring in the great margins not the original services we were hired for.
I think Anthony we've gone over that with you and the other callers many times but facilities management many times is a lead.
Facilities management is a decent margin business but nothing to get excited about.
But it's the additional services that we can sell through that push those margins and those many times come at renewal or later.
And just one last one on the cash balance can you maybe play that out over the next few quarters and any thoughts there? Well I always give specifics but remember we take bonuses on the next few weeks and that will hit cash to the couple of hundred million.
It will be a little bigger than Brett.
But that's exactly Brett's on that course with seasonality in the business.
You know you have to anticipate bonuses going out that will be a sizeable chunk of change.
And also when you look at the balance sheet there is over $1 billion showing cash we met about $200 million that is consolidated but we don't controls in entities that are all consolidated to investment management segment.
And so forth.
So there is about $800 million a little bit over $800 million of which about a $500 is in the U.S.
a big chunk goes out for bounces.
There will be some left over.
After that obviously and that would be held for now to access opportunities in the market and given uncertainties in Europe and so forth.
We are leaning toward and tending toward having a cash balance available for use until we have some better visibility for the pursuable future.
And let me just add a little bit to that.
I know you understand all this but we have some colors that are probably telling new story.
For folks who understand first of all we're seasonal business and we tend to onboard cash heavily in the third and fourth quarter as in very little in the first and second quarters.
So we end up every year with a heavy cash balance because of the seasonality.
And also because we need to preserve a decent amount of cash to payout bonuses we have 31 000 employees and many of those are bonusable and so those numbers add up as Gil just mentioned.
Given where we are in the cycle we see lots of opportunity out there to grow the business not just organically but through acquisitions and so having this cash on the balance sheet as opposed to using it for other things.
To us it's a wise move at the moment.
And that's as Gil mentioned you're seeing that the combined dynamics of saving for bonuses plus opportunities in market moving up that cash number a bit higher than we usually have it.
We will go next to Sloan Bohlen with Goldman Sachs.
May be just first the question on outsourcing to what degree do you guys have visibility of the forward pipeline of what I guess new contracts rather negotiation with? And then I guess is a related question of the growth you expect for next year is any of that locked in with what business you signed already to date Brett to your point about stabilizing those margins over time? I just wanted to be very clear when you say next year you mean this year.
Yes.
2011.
So first of all the pipeline information on outsourcing is very good for the next 60 days because those are contracts that have been put out to the market for which we're competing presently.
However the pipeline beyond that is almost non existent because the way in which these company's higher services.
This is not a business it's very interesting actually Sloan this is not a business.
We have the big marketing force out cold calling major corporations and trying to convince them to outsource.
But the process to get a company to do that is long-lived.
And by the way the momentum to do it is so strong at the moment that most of our work is something responding to our fees that are coming in the door and making decisions around which I repeat we think are worth chasing and which we're just going to let go by the way side.
I would tell you that the short-term pipeline looks really good and all the trends long-term trends that we would look at to support future growth in that business look very strong as well.
So said another way it's purely subjective not objective.
But I would tell you that if there were a 12-month or an 18-month pipeline it would look very strong right now.
And I get that by extrapolating the macros that we watch around that industry.
We have a number of very significant contracts that we've won in the past two years.
And we certainly expect those contracts at this point it will be embedded down or getting close to be embedded down.
But because this business is growing so fast right now and this is what I was trying to lead to earlier in probably not very well because it's growing so fast right now.
We've go a lot of business coming to door right now this going to require some upfront cost.
And I think that what the net of impact on all that is that because so much new business is coming in the margins in that business might be a little bit soft until this rate of new business coming in plateaus and we have a chance to bid down these many many clients we've got coming in the door.
I don't remember the specific number and Gil what comes to memory is something like a 173 accounts of one form or another that came-in in 2011.
But you get a sense for the velocity this business and the way in which we have to approach those accounts and onboard cost for those accounts.
And then manage them going forward.
Gil is that number relative? Yes 173 for the year.
173 for the year so its accounted very two days Sloan and that's just an unprecedented rate of growth but I think more important issue by far is that because of the great of the on-boarding of these accounts.
What we're looking at now is a very long run way of margins that should be moving up a little bit each year in that business as we at this bid down.
And you can imagine we're very excited about the long-term prospects for outsourcing given the rate of growth like we're seeing right now.
I mean is it to the point that you're seeing so much demand that there is pricing power that you may have for those new accounts he may bring in.
It's not pricing power.
But let me tell you how we get there.
We get there by not bidding on accounts that we think our price too low.
So that there is no way in a competitive market environment like this one and that business is super competitive.
We don't have any pricing power none.
And we get into the bid process and we know what the margins we want.
As a client for whatever reason is unrolling to pay those margins we drop out.
And so I suppose the net effect of all that is it kind of feels like pricing power but it's more turning down accounts that are not profitable in that force and only pursuing those that are.
And I've talked about this I think it's going to be a long long time before in the outsourcing business any provider really has a pricing power to speak of.
I do believe that even right now in the first quarter of 2012 I do believe that all the service providers have done a much better job of educating these clients around the idea that it makes sense to pay reasonable pricing with a reasonable margin for these services because what's happened to number of these clients is they've done and they've hired or they're consulting even worse they're consultants find out and hired a low margin low cost bidder.
Six months into the contract they calls up and ask them to help them out because there provider is failing miserably.
They don't have the platform they didn't price it right.
We make sure we'll remind those clients that we're happy to do it but there is a reason why we dropped out of the bid.
And that's happening less and less as those failures are more obvious and I think in public and that is allowing the marketplace I think the price the business at our free process a bid better for us.
They may did in the past.
This is just not a business that I think any smart corporation or owner for that matter would want to choose a low cost provider.
It is far too strategic to what they do.
And the risks to choosing the wrong provider are far too large.
And that helps pricing as well.
And then just one last question on capital markets.
Brett you talked a little bit about obviously core assets are still trading quite a bit but what should we look for as the driver to really push those secondary market trades? Is it more a function of capital availability or is it going to be a function of banks finally deciding to do something with their balance sheets? Well it's all those things but what really it this is time without shock.
And as you well know and most of the callers are very well aware we're in this very odd recovery.
Its fits and starts it's incremental.
And it is so skeptical at the moment to settlement either positive or negative settlement at house outsized impacts on the market.
So when we see a shock to this system which may actually but not be material.
It can freeze the credit market.
And certainly you folks know this even better than I do.
And when you see a single good jobs report like what came out last week this is euphoria that everything is gotten entirely better neither a true.
And so because of that what the capital markets need is just a period of time of quiet of no new big news.
And I'm hopeful that 2012 may actually be the year where that happens and that what we get is a return to a more normal recovery/extension cycle and we have not had one to date since the bottom of the downturn and that's what we need.
So when you begin to see financing loosen up fairly quickly you may recall and our callers may recall that by the spring of 2011 a sentiment was things were getting better quickly the first quarter and most of the second quarter.
And the secondary property markets being to see a lot of action in that kind of May June timeframe.
And then we get a shock again and everything shut down again and all the money went back to core.
That kind of bunker mentality anytime there is a buy check exists very much today just as it did last year and the year before.
And those secondary markets I believe are not going to get real action and real traction until the recovery has a chance to operate in a normal fashion as without big negative shock.
And we now have a question from Will Marks with JMP Securities.
I want to start out asking if you care to give further color on the bonus figure and $200 million is obviously too low.
Is $300 million to $500 million range fair or I'll let you answer? Gil do we comment on that number? No we don't.
I guess the numbers we mentioned it is north of $200 million but that's and best as much as we're going to say.
I will tell you this Will which is not I don't think material to a number but at least interesting.
The senior management bonus it will payout less money in 2011 than it did in 2010.
And just as a reminder to everybody the senior management is not paid out on a profit share bonus.
In CBRE we believe that we need to raise the performance target objectively for management every year in recovery so the net of impact to that is we have to do much much better in 2011 over 2010 to get the bonuses we earned in 2010.
And while we did much better it wasn't enough to get us back to that level.
So it's a material decrease.
And the senior management bonuses in 2011 or what we received in 2010 it's a real good bonus program.
And I think it's dead-on aligned with shareholders who want to see improved performance every year and not the same performance every year.
On another note can you Gil maybe talk about what operating and free cash flow was in 2011 maybe ex the integration cost? Yes it's approaching $300 million from operations.
And would you expect to grow that figure as EPS is growing in 2012? Well that's a logical conclusion I'd like to we would want to covert the cash yes.
So it should ought to grow in line with earnings yes.
There was a question early about ING integration cost and it sounded almost so that you were done completely.
And I thought I read in the prior quarter there was about $150 million of total integration cost.
So is that correct or more importantly are there any other costs related to ING? Gil let me hit the front of that and you can remind him what you spoke to in the script.
But Will I think from an operational standpoint I can tell you that the integration is complete.
We've fully integrated the people we are in the process of and the physical facility integration obviously takes a few months but its well on its way.
And I think I can tell you as we sit here today that this integration may very well end being the best operational integration we've ever had.
And we hold and you know we are very very focused on successful integrations.
We haven't had a bad one yet all of them have been very good.
This one was damn close to flawless.
And all that credit by the way goes to Jim Groch and our integration team Cal Frese and others.
It was really good.
Now there are remaining cost to be had and Gil would you just please give Will what you mentioned earlier.
You're right.
The overall is about $150 million of overall integration cost and we're about halfway through.
In terms of cash expenditures a lot of that is over time.
So we're back-half.
My comment was I believe in response to cost containment and with that action was all contemplated currently.
And then the co-investments were those all made in the fourth quarter Gil? Thanks but no.
Once again there's a potential for about $70 million of additional co-investments but it's not and certain things have to happen in order to have those trigger.
When you announced the acquisition you'd given the 2010 number for revenue and EBITDA.
Can you comment now on 2011 was it above 2010 and how much? I'm not going to comment on that.
The 2010 numbers that we gave was a proxy for what that acquisition would do relative to the total.
Obviously 2011 is not a full year and a lot of that has now been integrated.
So I don't want to get into bifurcating out the ING contribution from the rest of the investment management business.
It will be accretive in 2012 and it is moderately accretive as we've said and it is all incorporated in throughout 2012 guidance.
And Will just subjectively because I know what you're driving here.
Just subjectively I think I can give you comfort and the rest of callers comfort that we did not have any negative surprises in terms or performance for that business in 2011 either the time we owned it or prior to it being owned by us.
I just have one final question on the development gains I guess it sort of highlights how difficult it is to model your company.
Does the guidance for 2012 assume the same level of development gains that we saw in 2011 on a full year basis? How lumpy is that gong to be in 2012? Yes.
It assumes actually a material diminution in gains in 2012 over 2011.
2011 we had some very large gains come through which Gil spoke to on the call.
But 2012 we're forecasting that we will not have as much in gains as we had last year.
The business it's lumpy right now as is investors because those markets are so muted.
And so one or two gains really moves the needle.
When we get back to a more normal market environment both the CBRE global investors and the (channel core) development company will have a higher number of these coming through and one deal here and they're won't be as material as perhaps they were in 2011 or 2010.
But the answer to your question at the moment we're not seeing any big gains in 2012 around our development but that could change.
These markets do move very quickly and decisions around buying and selling properties can move very quickly as well.
So I don't want to say it isn't going to happen it could.
Gil anything more you'd like to say around that? No.
I think that's exactly you're right on point Brett.
Our next question will come from David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I'm curious on some of the metrics on U.S.
leasing.
Did average lease term decline in the fourth quarter did the average square footage decline was there a turndown in the rental rates on average that you saw? Just sort of some color for the change in U.S.
leasing and elsewhere? For U.S.
leasing it was purely a story of number of trends of velocity number of transactions they were down 8% quarter-over-quarter.
And that was the entirety of the change quarter-over-quarter in the leasing revenues rents were it was very little change in rents in the quarter.
And there was a very little change in square footage.
And by the way what we're seeing in that marketplace as you would expect with the type of economy we're dealing with right now is of all the business lines we have leasing in the U.S.
is the one acting most abnormal through a typical recovery cycle.
And the reason of course and this is obviously I know that you David and everyone else the reason for that is the job growth is so muted.
So in a typical recovery you have a combined impact of rental rate growth which tends to move very quickly up in recovery cycle and wrap a job growth which tends to move very quickly up.
We don't have either of those right now because of the type of very very incremental recovery rent.
We believe both of those are coming.
And I think as most of you know in 2011 I believe the number was 56 million square feet of construction was brought to the market in United States which is the absolute lowest amount of new constructions since the numbers were kept in 1960.
What it tells you is you have a lot of people out there right now who are not willing to build a new building and lenders unwilling to lend on one.
But what also tells us is is that when the recovery gets its legs and we get real job growth rents could move up very very quickly because the inventory number is artificially constrained right now.
But David the answer to your question was it was purely velocity.
And our comments on the scripted portion of the call way the leasing our expectation is is that leasing is going to remain very muted until we see meaningful job growth.
And our projections are based on a lot of different data points is that we think that's a Q3 Q4 event and Q1 and Q2 on leasing will be relatively flat perhaps nominally up or nominally down it's not going to move much.
The surprise if we get one will be up.
I think the level leasing we're seeing right now is pretty much dial tone.
We're also now working off of compares that are quite strong as you saw the leasing number for 2011 was a record high.
So we are at a high level.
I don't see a lot of growth in that until we see real job growth.
And hopefully we're going to see that second-half figure.
And I guess if we continue to have kind of U.S.
job growth as we do in January it would be a reacceleration and your leasing revenue should be lagged anyway right? Yes they would.
I think that for us when we'll know the January wasn't a head fake is when you get probably three months of these together.
And I think that most large corporations will look for something generally like that as well.
They're going to start ramping-up space acquisitions in a very serious way if these job numbers hold for another month or a month-and-a-half.
The consumer numbers are pretty decent too.
So again we're more bullish than we are pessimistic on leasing globally in 2012.
But we think it should be a bit more back-ended than normal.
And then if I could just a quick numbers question.
Do you have any thoughts on what a normalized interest expense run rate is or what for 2012 total interest expense could be? It's going to be around the $180 million all-in.
So that's not just on corporate borrowing so to speak but also the entities that we consolidate and therefore run through interest expense on our P&amp;L.
So about $45 million a quarter.
Thank you.
And Mr.
White we have no further questions.
Please go ahead with any closing remarks.
Great.
Thanks everybody.
We'll talk to you in three months.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the CBRE first quarter earnings call.
At this time all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
The instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Nick Kormeluk.
Please go ahead.
First quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
About an hour ago we issued a press release announcing our Q1 financial results.
This release is available on the home page of our website at <a href="http://www.cbre.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.cbre.com</u></a>.
This conference call is being webcast and is available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Also available is a presentation slide deck which you can use to follow along with our prepared remarks.
An archive audio of the webcast and a PDF version of the slide presentation will be posted to the website later today and a transcript of our call will be posted tomorrow.
Please turn to the slide labeled “Forward Looking Statements.” This presentation contains statements that are forward looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements regarding our future growth momentum operations financial performance business outlook and our ability to integrate the ING REIM businesses.
These statements should be considered as estimates only and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Except to the extent required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forward-looking statements that you may hear today.
Please refer to our first quarter earnings report filed on Form 8-K and our current annual report on Form 10-K in particular any discussion of risk factors or forward-looking statements which are filed with the SEC and available at the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov) for a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any estimates that you may hear today.
We may make certain statements during the course of this presentation which include references to “non-GAAP financial measures ” as defined by SEC regulations.
As required by these regulations we have provided reconciliations of these measures to what we believe are the most directly comparable GAAP measures which are attached hereto within the appendix.
Please turn to slide three.
Participating with me today are Brett White our Chief Executive Officer Mike Lafitte President of our Americas region and Gil Borok our Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the call over to Brett.
Thanks Nick and good afternoon everybody.
Please turn to slide four.
The macro market trends that have prevailed for most of 2011 have generally continued in the first quarter of 2012.
The market is recovering but at an incremental and uneven pace.
While no two recoveries are identical this current one is marked by mixed performance across geographies and market sectors.
That being said our highly productive market-leading and diversified platform helped us deliver a strong opening quarter for 2012.
We especially benefited from strong performance in the Americas and in a moment Mike Lafitte our president of the Americas will describe our integrated Americas business platform in a bit more detail.
Not unexpectedly EMEA performance weakened versus the prior year first quarter as transaction activity has slowed against tough economic conditions.
In Asia Pacific while there was overall revenue growth investment sales in the region cooled a bit.
We also saw material and immediate contributions from the addition of the ING Real Estate Investment Management people programs and platform to our investment management business.
We expect these positive contributions to continue as we complete our integration process.
Our global outsourcing business continued to make strong gains with revenue growing by double digits for the sixth consecutive quarter.
Both total contracts signed and new wins set records and we surpassed the 3 billion square foot managed milestone.
In our transaction businesses leasing resumed growth with a 3% gain over the first quarter of 2011.
Investment sales revenue increased 10% and also deserving special mention is commercial mortgage brokerage which jumped 46%.
As a result of all this we posted solid 14% revenue growth and even stronger 25% normalized EBITDA growth during the quarter.
And I am particularly pleased to report that our EBITDA margin expanded 90 BPs to 11.1%.
Some of the most notable transactions we completed during or immediately following the quarter are shown on slide five.
As is our practice I will not go through them individually but we have included them here for your review.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to Mike Lafitte our president of the Americas to discuss his real strong performance in the Americas business.
Mike?  Thank you Brett.
Please advance to slide six if you will.
As you have read in our earnings release and as Brett mentioned our Americas business had excellent performance in the first quarter of 2012.
We are very pleased to achieve 13% revenue growth and 29% normalized EBITDA growth in a sluggish economic environment.
Credit for this goes to our nearly 21 000 Americas employees who are intensely focused on providing superior service to our clients and maintaining disciplined expense control.
We took tough actions in 2011 to align our cost base to the difficult operating environment and we are now seeing some benefits from those actions.
In the Americas we have built a very large deep diverse highly-integrated and arguably unparalleled platform.
It took many years and considerable investment to build this robust platform and to integrate its component parts so they worked together cohesively.
We are focused on continuous improvement of our platform to stay ahead of our evolving client needs.
Our financial business statistics for 2011 shown here were just published late last week.
They underscore the magnitude of our platform.
Even in a lukewarm market environment we closed more than 38 000 sales and lease transactions in the Americas valued at approximately $92 billion.
You can see this activity was evenly split between sales and leasing.
Our people specialize in each of the major product segments: office industrial retail and the multi-housing space.
This specialization provides unique expertise and insight which positions us very well to capture market opportunities.
Our valuation platform is also robust.
We maintain the largest market position in this space serving financial institutions corporations and special servicers and there is great synergy with both our capital markets and our outsourcing business in the valuation space.
Our commercial mortgage brokerage business involves loan origination and sales which is growing well as liquidity returns to the investment markets.
Americas’ loan origination volumes rose nearly 50% in the first quarter of 2012 versus a year earlier.
We do significant work with government agencies.
For 2011 the Mortgage Bankers Association ranked us number one originator of government agency loans.
The volume of work with these agencies has continued to grow into 2012.
Through our joint venture with GE Capital GEMSA we are also one of the industry’s largest loan servicers with over $100 billion of loans being serviced today.
In our 1.6 billion square foot Americas property and corporate facilities portfolio we are achieving strong growth by focusing on winning trophy asset assignments from institutional loaners as well as occupiers.
You saw an example on the previous slide the 4.2 million square foot Houston center which we are now managing for JP Morgan Investment Management.
Project leasing is also a core offering in our outsourcing portfolio and is highly synergistic with our leasing business.
We managed over $13 billion in projects during 2011.
Strong growth opportunities also exist for us throughout Latin America and our Canadian operations.
They now account for 11% of the Americas revenue for the first quarter of 2012.
Please turn to slide seven.
These are new statistics published this month by National Real Estate Investor.
You’ll see that our sales and lease transaction value in the Americas approaches or greatly exceeds the global activity for any other firm.
We compete with many firms in different markets across the region.
Many are focused on certain niches such as tenant representation or sales or finance area.
Few have the depth and breadth of our service platform and none have achieved our scale or our market position.
Please turn to slide eight.
This slide illustrates how we put our powerful platform to work for our clients.
In leasing some of our largest 2012 closed transactions are depicted here.
First we represented Carter’s an infant clothes retailer in connection with a lease for a 1 million square foot distribution facility outside of Atlanta.
Site selection was done with the assistance of our labor analytics group.
You may know that we represented Condé Nast last year in its 1 million square foot lease at One World Trade Center in New York.
Condé Nast continues to grow and has taken an additional 139 000 square feet in the building.
Ceva Logistics and E*Trade are both broker-led outsourcing accounts.
We have long-term contracts with them to perform transaction work across the region.
Accounts like these generate approximately 15% of our Americas leasing revenue.
In capital markets Hess Tower is yet another example of a great platform story.
This trophy office building in Houston was developed by the Trammell Crow Company along with principal real estate investors and sold recently for a record price.
Seabury Service Platform played a key role in assisting the Trammell Crow Company in principal first in managing the asset and serving as the agent in a lease to Hess then in the sale to H&amp;R REIT a Canadian open-ended REIT.
Our debt and equity finance team also arranged a $250 million loan for H&amp;R to finance the purchase.
The Mount Airy transaction noted here which closed last week is evidence of Seabury’s unique comprehensive capabilities.
This is a $165 million recapitalization of a Poconos resort and casino.
Our investment banking group CBRE Capital Advisors acted as exclusive financial advisor and co-arranger in a syndicated loan.
The last example is representative of our growing impact in Latin America.
We arranged a $100 million sale of a class A asset in the heart of Santiago’s business district.
CBRE’s local team in Chile collaborated with our U.S.
capital markets professionals in the sale of this tower on behalf of a German open-ended fund a truly cross-border transaction.
Please turn to slide nine.
Outsourcing continues to be our single largest business line.
Its 45% share of the Americas revenue in the first quarter is a little high due to seasonality slower leasing and sales activity in the first quarter.
For the full year in 2011 it accounted for 39% of the Americas revenue.
The business continues to grow at a double digit pace.
In asset services we are focused on large strategic accounts.
Our goal is to deliver multiple synergistic services for those institutions and to be their preferred provider throughout the entire life cycle of their investment.
There are currently about 30 strategic accounts in total.
The five largest are listed here in alphabetical order.
On the corporate services side we are continuing to rapidly on-board new clients and expand our service offering with current clients.
Of the record 58 contracts signed in the first quarter of 2012 more than 40 are in the Americas and others are global relationships generally with significant Americas component.
I’d like to comment on just a few of these.
First for Deloitte we provide variable project management services for its space throughout the United States.
We recently added and extended this nine-year relationship.
Additionally we won new facilities managements assignments with Microsoft and NYSE Euronext demonstrating our ability to nurture and grow client relationships.
Adventist Health Systems and the University of Cincinnati are emblematic of our increasing penetration of the healthcare and education markets.
These sectors as well as government face enormous pressure to become more efficient and we believe the opportunity is large as outsourcing adoption in this space is in its infancy.
Now I’d like to turn the call back over to Gil.
Thank you Mike.
Please advance to slide 10.
Total revenue was approximately $1.35 billion for the first quarter of 2012 up 14% from last year.
This increase was driven by growth in outsourcing investment sales investment management commercial mortgage brokerage and to a lesser degree leasing.
Normalized EBITDA grew at a stronger pace than revenue up 25% to $150.5 million in the first quarter of 2012 from $120.6 million in the first quarter of 2011 delivering a normalized EBITDA margin of 11.1% or an increase of 90 basis points over the first quarter of 2011.
Our cost of services decreased to 58% of total revenue in the first quarter of 2012 as compared to 60.2% in the first quarter of 2011.
First quarter 2012 operating expenses were 32.6% of total revenue versus 31.8% in the first quarter of 2011.
This offsetting impact on the cost of services and operating expenses resulted from the inclusion of ING REIM expenses all of which flowed through the operating expense line as opposed to cost of services.
Interest expense increased by $10.3 million in the first quarter of 2012 as compared to the first quarter of 2011 primarily due to the ING REIM and Sterling Term Loan A-1 financings which occurred after the first quarter of 2011.
Our first quarter 2012 tax rate was approximately 42%.
Consistent with prior years this is seasonally higher than the anticipated full-year tax rate.
We expect the full-year 2012 tax rate to be a little below 40%.
First quarter 2012 GAAP diluted earnings per share was $.08 versus $.11 last year and adjusted diluted earnings per share was $.14 versus $.13 in the first quarter of 2011.
Please turn to slide 11.
Property and facilities management was our largest service line in the first quarter of 2012 representing 39% of total revenue in the quarter with a 10% increase over the first quarter of 2011.
Leasing was our second largest service line representing 27% of total revenue in the first quarter of 2012 with increases in both Asia Pacific and the Americas.
Investment sales showed a solid increase of 10% in the first quarter of 2012 driven by the Americas and accounted for 13% of this quarter’s total revenue.
Global investment management revenue more than doubled quarter over quarter driven by increases in asset management and incentive fees attributable to the ING REIM businesses.
Appraisal and valuation revenue increased 6% to $79.7 million.
Commercial mortgage brokerage revenue jumped 46% year over year driven by continued capital availability generally low interest rates competitive spreads and investors’ continued search for yield.
Development services revenue was down approximately $3 million.
Revenue from property and facilities management fees for assets under management loan servicing fees and leasing commissions from existing clients are all largely recurring.
This revenue comprises approximately 62% of total revenue for the first quarter of 2012.
Slide 12 demonstrates stabilized vacancy rates and effective positive absorption in all three market sectors depicted along with forecasted improvement over the next two years.
The capital and investment sales volume data that we typically show is not yet available due to our slightly earlier reporting date this quarter.
Please turn to slide 13.
Sales revenue in the Americas increased 33% in the first quarter of 2012 versus the first quarter of 2011 still driven by activities in core markets.
Market share data for the first quarter of 2012 is not yet available but we are pleased to note that late last week CBRE closed the largest single asset investment sale on the west coast since 2006 the $480 million sale of Russell Investment Center in Seattle.
This transaction is indicative of the activity that appears to be surfacing in secondary markets.
Our Americas leasing revenue increased modestly in the first quarter of 2012 as compared to the first quarter of 2011 in line with our expectations.
During the first quarter of 2012 the U.S.
office vacancy rate remained constant at 16% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
The Americas outsourcing business grew a solid 11% in the first quarter of 2012 versus the first quarter of 2011.
Please turn to slide 14.
Our EMEA investment sales revenue decreased 9% in the first quarter of 2012 versus the first quarter of 2011.
This weakness comes as no surprise as economic challenges in the region persist causing market-wide investment activity to decline 18%.
CBRE’s EMEA leasing revenue decreased 6% in the first quarter of 2012 versus the first quarter of 2011.
This weakness stems from caution around large space commitments somewhat upset by stability and prime rent.
It should be noted that France which had an exceptional first quarter in 2011 in transaction activity that tapered off as 2011 progressed was largely responsible for the decrease in sales and leasing.
Outsourcing slowed a bit with revenue only increasing 6% in the first quarter of 2012 as compared to the first quarter of 2011 driven by new assignment.
EMEA decrease and normalized EBITDA resulted mainly from the reduction of the aforementioned higher-margin transaction revenues the additional compensation expense associated with retention and severance in part related to acquisitions as well as slightly higher occupancy costs.
Please turn to slide 15.
CBRE’s sales revenue in Asia Pacific decreased 34% in the first quarter of 2012 versus the first quarter of 2011 primarily driven by a cooling of activity across the region as decisions were delayed due to global economic uncertainty.
CBRE’s leasing revenue in the Asia Pacific grew 8% in the first quarter of 2012 as compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Some growth was evident in most markets led by Australia and India.
Asia Pacific saw outsourcing growth of 10% in the first quarter of 2012 versus the first quarter of 2011 as it continues to gain adoption in this region.
Asia Pacific’s first quarter 2012 normalized EBITDA margin was negatively impacted by the aforementioned reduction in higher-margin investment sales revenue investment in China and the favorable impact of a notable bonus accrual reversal in the first quarter of 2011 that did not recur this year.
Please turn to slide 16.
Revenue for the development services segment totaled $14.9 million in the first quarter of 2012 versus $19.2 million in the first quarter of 2011 primarily due to a decrease in incentive fees and lower rental revenue driven by property dispositions in the later quarters of 2011.
At the end of the first quarter of 2012 in-process development totaled $4.8 billion and the pipeline totaled $1.3 billion.
Our equity co-investments at the end of the first quarter of 2012 in the development services business totaled $93.6 million.
Please turn to slide 17.
First quarter 2012 global investment management revenue increased to $125.2 million from $51.4 million in the first quarter of 2011.
The increase resulted from higher asset management and incentive fees stemming from the inclusion of ING REIM which contributed approximately $85 million in revenue in the first quarter of 2012.
Assets Under Management or AUM totaled $95.9 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2012 up about $1.8 billion from year-end 2011 primarily due to increases in valuation and benefits from currency fluctuations.
In the first quarter of 2012 total AUM in the direct real estate business was impacted by $300 million of asset acquisitions $1.1 billion of dispositions and transfers and $1.2 billion from improvement in asset values.
In addition currency fluctuations increased AUM by $1.4 billion for the first quarter of 2012.
Included in the $95.9 billion in AUM at the end of the first quarter of 2012 was $21.7 billion of listed securities.
Changes in market valuation in this portfolio increased AUM by $1.9 billion in the quarter versus the fourth quarter of 2011.
In the first quarter of 2012 in the direct real estate business we raised new capital of approximately $400 million and had approximately $2.8 billion of capital to deploy at the end of the quarter.
Our core investments in this business at the end of the quarter totaled $176.9 million.
Our global investment management EBITDA reconciliation detail is shown on slide 18.
In the first quarter of 2012 we incurred $10 million of expenses related to the ING REIM acquisitions primarily for retention and severance.
As of March 31 2012 the company maintained a cumulative accrual of carried interest compensation expense of approximately $44 million which pertains to anticipated future carried interest revenue.
This business operated at a pro forma normalized EBITDA margin of 36% for the first quarter of 2012.
If you recall this is right within the range in which we anticipated we would operate at the time we announced the ING REIM acquisition.
Slide 19 shows our amortization and debt maturity schedule for all outstanding debt.
This is virtually unchanged as compared to year-end 2011 and we remain very comfortable with this schedule and the flexibility it provides.
Please turn to slide 20.
Excluding cash within consolidated funds and other entities not available for company use and excluding our non-recourse real estate loans and mortgage brokerage warehouse facilities our total net debt at the end of the first quarter of 2012 was approximately $1.9 billion.
This represents an increase from year-end 2011 primarily due to incentive compensation payments which are generally made in the first quarter.
At the end of the first quarter of 2012 our weighted average interest rate was approximately 5.7% similar to the end of 2011 when including interest rate swaps.
Our leverage ratio on a covenant basis now stands at 1.81 times at the end of the first quarter of 2012 on a trailing 12-month basis.
Our total company net debt to trailing 12-month EBITDA stood at 2.29 times.
I will now turn the call back over to Brett.
Thank you Gil.
And please turn to slide 21.
While the commercial real estate market recovery continues to be incremental and uneven it is recovering nonetheless.
Updates on our view for the year are that outsourcing is likely to continue strong growth.
Recent growth rates across the globe will track job creation and should continue to be modest for the time being.
Investment sales growth is going to be dependent on specific regional market dynamics noting that the economic climate in EMEA is challenged and there has been a recent cooling in Asia Pacific.
And finally the investment management will benefit from a full-year contribution from the acquired ING Real Estate Investment Management businesses.
With the first quarter now behind us we are maintaining our view from year-end 2011.
First that our EPS guidance remains unchanged and second that we should see solid EBITDA margin expansion.
And with that Operator we’d be happy to take questions.
(Operator instructions).
We have a question from the line of Anthony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good afternoon.
Your gross margins in the first quarter were a lot higher than they were in the year-ago quarters.
Just curious what drove that because it seemed like throughout 2011 in each of those quarters the gross margin actually declined year over year so I’m just wondering what changed there?  Are you looking at the gross margin on the press release where they’ve normalized or not?  What you’ll see is the comment that we made that I made was with regard to ING.
And all the cuts from ING are flowing through OpEx and not to cost of services.
So the mix of what flows through cost of services versus what flows through OpEx is now changed.
Of course it’s against the same denominator when you do the math.
The revenue’s in the revenue number we’ve had a shift a fundamental shift in what flows through cost of services and OpEx because of the acquisition.
Should we assume that I guess on the year as the next few quarters play out that we’ll continue to see you know a pretty big pop?  I guess it may be minimized a little bit in the latter part of the year because you had some ING last year but it was a 200 to 300 basis point pick up on that gross margin safe to assume?  You’ve had about a 200 basis point impact on cost of services and I think it is safe to assume I don’t know that it will be that every quarter but it is safe to assume that we’ll have the shift between the two yes.
And the roughly $17 million of transaction do you use in investment management in the quarter.
Do those more or less drop right down to EBITDA or are there any real cost that have to get accrued against those?  No there are costs against them there’s compensation costs that go against it for sure.
But that wouldn’t be carried interest compensation because it didn’t seem like you accrued much there.
It’s not carried interest its other incentive fees.
Okay.
On the facilities business the revenue was actually down a little bit sequentially from 4Q.
I was under the impression that that business is not quite as seasonal as some of the others and you know you picked up a lot of contracts in 4Q and you picked up a whole bunch more in 1Q so I’m just wondering kind of how that declined sequentially?  Anthony its Brett.
You utilize me on that question.
First of all the facility business is growing very very rapidly.
There are a lot of cats and dogs that flow through that revenue line and I would look at this more of an aberration than any sort of trend to be concerned about.
The bottom line dynamic in the facilities business right now is it’s going through historic growth at the moment and you should expect to see generally going forward.
And then just in terms of your key lines like sales and leasing Brett or maybe Michael can you comment on just the competitive landscape for brokers and just some of your larger competitors out there.
I think last quarter Brett you’d mentioned that.
You did feel that some of the competitors out there were nipping at your heels but you felt good about your positioning.
I’m just wondering if you can give us some updated thoughts on that.
Sure let me give you a short-term answer kind of quarter to quarter but what’s much more important is the long-term answer.
It’s funny in the fourth quarter we had a soft compare against one competitor on leasing numbers in a quarter.
And we spent some time talking about that and letting all of you know that this is a very big very powerful integrated business and we focus on lots of things all the time.
And any time we see a competitor for our competitive position at risk or a competitor coming in and as you said “nipping at our heels” we redouble our efforts to correct that situation.
Now ironically or not the bell of the ball this quarter is guess what?  Americas.
And by the way that’s why we brought Michael Lafitte in because that business is so much more than U.S.
leasing.
There’s no competitor even close to what we do in our U.S.
integrated business and that’s why we had Mike talk about it.
In terms of the competitive landscape on sales and leasing you know this industry is and we’ve been talking about this for so many years I can’t even remember when we started.
But this industry is rapidly consolidating down to two groups of players and we’ve got on the global landscape I think we’ve got two big high-quality multinational integrated companies out there.
And we’ve got thousands of boutique firms out there that do whatever they do really really well in single markets or single business lines.
And we’ve got these folks stuck in the middle they’re going away so fast it’s almost hard to keep tract of it at this point.
By the way we love that dynamic.
We love it because every day more and more of the accounts that we want to own that we want to do business with are turning to use for their services.
The competitive landscape on lease and sales in the U.S.
and globally is really a tale of two stories or two tales.
The first is that in the U.S.
the leasing landscape is a very very competitive marketplace.
We are dominant in that marketplace and expect to remain so.
However the competitors that we had just three years ago some of them are gone and that share is going to be spread among other competitors in the business and you should expect to see that going forward.
On the sale side that marketplace is one we’ve dominated for many many years and our competitive position in the sale space if any just gets better and better.
So we like where we sit.
As I said last quarter we also like having a couple competitors nip a little bit at our heels it makes us better it gives us more focus.
And as Mike talked about in his comments it’s a good dynamic and we welcome them to the party.
Do you see any advantage or do you think there’s anything behind you know New Mark was purchased by a financial services firm and they also picked up Grub and Ellis and do you see anything behind being backed by a financial services firm going into real estate services or anything emerging there that makes you think about you know just being integrated on your on platform?  I think it’s all interesting and we welcome to the dance these new players.
It sounds to me like the BCG I think that’s right it sounds like these players are sophisticated they’re smart they report to be well capitalized.
I think that’s great.
And I think that this elimination of this middle group of firms it’s just inevitable it’s absolutely – it’s going to get done.
We’re watching it get done.
And the way that that’s going to happen is there’s only a few choices.
They either go bankrupt and just disappear off the face of the earth but these businesses have people in them.
And so if a good well-heeled company like BCG or another can come in and pick up the pieces of these failed firms I think that’s great.
I know a lot of people inside those businesses particularly Grub and Ellis these are high-quality good people and the fact that they’ve found a home with an owner that’s excited about the industry I think is a plus for everybody.
I don’t think being owned by one type of owner or another is necessarily an advantage or a disadvantage.
It all comes down to leadership it all comes down to the people and it all comes down to platform.
There’s a very very long wave that any of these aggregators need the distance to go to to get to the level where I think these couple big multinational firms are is a huge distance.
But you know what?  Having folks that want to be there having folks that are aspirational having folks that are putting capital into this industry is a net benefit for everybody they make us all better and we welcome them to the dance.
It’s all good.
And by the way it’s way better that these firms that have gone through these horrible problems that they’ve had again it’s way better that the good things inside those firms which is the people have found a place to land and do business and stay in the business in the marketplace.
That benefits all of us.
Thanks and nice quarter.
Thank you.
And we have a question from the line of Will Marks with JMP Securities please go ahead.
Thanks hello Brad and Gil and Mike.
Hey Will.
Hey Will.
Let’s see I have a few questions here.
First we’ll start with the DNA level and I’m wondering if you could give us an amount of visibility in terms of run rate?  It was I think higher in the quarter but is there some one-time cost in there?  Will can you just repeat the first part it was a little hard to hear you sorry.
Sure on the depreciation of the amortization of – I think the quarter was 46 million or so I’m just wondering what we should be looking for on a quarterly basis for the rest of the year?  Yes sure.
So and that is a GAAP number off the press release so again we have a little bit of noise in the numbers.
I think the increase year-over-year on a GAAP basis was 23 million all of which 16 million was normalized.
I’ll come back to that normalized number in a moment.
That will not be the same each quarter but what we’re dealing with non-normalized if you will then is about a $7 million increase and there are two components to that.
One is – and it’s about 50/50 – one is amortization of servicing rights and our mortgage brokerage business.
We get to capitalize those up front and then we have to amortize them over the service period.
So one is from the mortgage brokerage business servicing rights one part of it is.
The other part of is the intangibles that we acquired in the ING acquisition for which we cannot normalize.
So we are – we have on a normalized basis about a $7 million increase year-over-year and then on a GAAP basis it’s the 23 million and of that 16 million about 10 of it is the result of incentive fees that we received during the quarter in the ING REIM business so the normalization will go down as the year progresses.
Okay so it’s closer to 30 million for the quarter.
Correct.
Okay.
All right I think I got it.
Exactly.
Okay.
Looking at investment management specifically how should we think about revenue seasonality in that business?  You know let me – Will let me just give you a general answer on this.
It’s becoming a lot less seasonal then it used to be.
And that is a combination of a number of different dynamics but I think you should think about the investment management business now as a very large business that has a high proportion of core funds and assets within it and the way in which we’re paid for that business is now a lot smoother than it used to be.
Gil you want to add anything to that?  I think that’s right on because we have more – much more poor funds in it so it’s much more readable.
Okay and then just a couple other things.
One on – in looking at the guidance can you just remind us what that would assume?  I think you said in the past – in normal years it was with development gains.
You mean in terms of what the guidance implies? Yes thank you.
Well you know it’s all in Will right?  So we don’t and – you know we’ve never really broken out component pieces we are certainly in the third year of a recovery and I think the most I can say to you is the guidance anticipated that and we haven’t changed our view at the moment.
Okay and last question anything in terms of the next three quarters – should we look at any of as having more difficult comp than another?  Well again the guidance would incorporate that and we’ve talked about that in terms of a full year but of course and maybe you’re getting back at the developing it you’ve got to – I don’t recall them off the top of my head which quarter they necessarily hit.
And maybe this is what you were alluding to.
We did call out $32 million of development gains in the fourth quarter as being out sized but that business has gains every year and the guidance that we have this year would incorporate the gains that we think would be reoccurring.
So we had an outsided number you know in the 50 millions but it’s not going to be that this year and we said that on the last call but there will be some runway of gains – that’s what that business does and that’s incorporated in the guidance.
So it would only – the only things that would really stand out and you really have to go back and analyze it quarter by quarter I can’t do that on the call here we could one-on-one if you need to but is when the gains hit and when carried into it hits into the good and to the bad those are the biggest things that would be [inaudible] to a quarter.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you very much.
And we have a question from the line of David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch please go ahead.
Sure I wanted to get an update on the four drivers of US leasing you know average term length average rent average square footage per deal and then deal velocity if I could.
You know David let me do this.
We are fortunate to have Mike Lafitte on the phone call actually dialing in from Dallas.
And on that specific question I want to come back to that in a minute but Mike I would like to take you back for a moment to the question on the competitive landscape maybe you could add a couple of comments on how that landscape feels to you at the moment in both sale and leasing.
And then Mike I’ve got some things here I could give to David on the velocity and so forth but you want to talk about it just the way it feel to you Mike I think that would fine as well.
Sure I would be happy to do that – you know obviously the leasing and the sale businesses is a very competitive marketplace it always has been.
The distress that we have seen with some of our competitors over the last couple of years has frankly benefited us.
We’ve been able to attract talent from some of those that were experiencing distress.
So nothing has really changed I think as it relates to the playing field that we see in the America on the – in terms of just the industry dynamics.
Certainly some of the names are emerging in that middle tear – you know there really is a fight for three and four and five kind of those places in the space – you know all good brands and all good people and all of that but it’s really interesting kind of watching it all play out and how those – and Brett commented on that.
And I think about some of the – and Brett you may comment on some of those specific metrics that we do follow.
Sure.
As it relates to the leasing drivers I would say David a couple of things that I think about that are bigger drivers than some of those metrics ultimately that drive you know the vouchers and revenues and commissions in that business.
The first is our customers you know just landing new customers – we’re very active on that both for on our investor side of our business as well as our occupiers.
We’re deep in mid-cash we’re deep in healthcare so we’re very focused on landing new customers and we’re doing that a lot.
The second I would say is productivity advances that we’re focused on around our leasing professionals; training specialty practice groups that are raising up in very specific niches they are really take us into new areas they can actually expand our own business.
Certainly strategic hiring is part of it and we’ve continued to remain very active on the hiring front through all of the down turn we are always in the marketplace for great talent.
Through ’08 and ’09 and ’10 and ’11 we were adding and retracting great talent to our company at the mid and the higher levels for the most parts – always with a program to grow our own.
And then lastly is improving fundamentals that I think will – that are ahead of us in some of those metrics that you asked about and now Gil and Brett you may want to comment on those metrics that we do track.
But then the fundamentals are improving and that is I think good news ahead although it’s slower growth on the leasing side of what we are seeing certainly on the sales side.
Well well said Mike thank you.
And David just on the numbers let me fill in some numbers that Mike was referencing.
First on the fundamentals as you saw from the deck what we’re seeing in marketplaces not surprising at all – we’re in again I think early innings of a protract to a recovery all though it’s uneven and incremental.
So they can see rates are very slowly coming down.
We’re seeing absorption positive absorption bounce around but it is positive.
And we’re seeing CAP rates on slowly coming down as well.
All of that of course is what Mike is referring to and it augers towards an improving recovery as we look forward.
On the actual sale and lease numbers for the U.S.
I’ll give you a few numbers.
On the sale side what we had was a fairly strong pick up in number of transactions first quarter 2011 or first quarter ’12 and in the U.S.
for instance that was 11% higher.
On the average transaction side and again this is just U.S.
it’s not Americas what we saw there was a 25% increase in transaction size and these together produce a 37% increase in reported sales revenue first-quarter-over-first-quarter year-over-year.
Now I want you to be careful these numbers bounce around because we are the early stages of recovery but that’s what sales was for the first quarter.
On the leasing side it was generally flat year-over-year and we look at office leasing and where the real pick up was was actually in retail and industrial.
And those together gave us in the U.S.
at least a 5% increase in reported leasing revenue year-over-year.
Again these numbers bounce around because that’s where we are at this point in the cycle but as Mike said and as we’ve mentioned in our deck here the leasing business is all about job growth and job growth has been true net job growth has not been anything to write home about for a while.
When that picks up and it will leasing numbers will pick up along with it and sometimes they pick up in an outsized way when you see real job growth.
The sale side actually is chugging along in the U.S.
pretty well and we talk about the slowness in Europe and Asia.
All right great.
And one more question on different topic – European investment sales volumes I’m sure you’ve been getting assignments but I’ve been reading that a couple of European banks have suspended their commercial real estate operations altogether.
I’m just wondering you know from your perspective how are lending conditions in Europe now and – you know how you see that affecting you over the next couple of quarters?  You know it’s all – you know usually we get these questions about New York so one reason the headline in New York and they extrapolate that that’s the world.
And I – the point that I’m trying to make and not very well is that in Europe you do have a couple of banks that are out – more than a couple that are out of the commercial real estate lending market.
There’s lots of capital flowing around the world that can support the purchase of high quality investment grade commercial real estate.
Now that having been said you know the real issue at the moment in Europe is just uncertainty and it’s – you know whenever we talk about this we talk about it in 2008 2009 2010 and last year.
When you have uncertainty in a market place it makes it hard to find pricing and – so when there’s uncertainty in the market place people just slow down and they take their time and they do a lot more work to make sure that they have got a view on pricing and right now in Europe I think the story is more about uncertainty in the market place which slows down transaction volume if it is a lack of financing to buy an asset.
If you and I want to go out to London or to Paris or to Amsterdam or for that matter New York or Huston or L.A.
and buy a high quality asset we’ll get the financing to do it.
It’s – that’s not really the major driver of the slowing that we’re seeing – it’s a piece of it.
(Operator Instructions).
And our next question is from the line of Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Blair &amp; Co.
</strong> Hi thanks.
First question given the pace of wins in new space you guys are riding in the corporate business how do we think about the – I guess the margin dilution near term?  And when or at what point should we see I guess those margin comparisons get easier; i.e.
where the income margins from the existing contracts are strong enough to offset the upfront spend on the new wins you guys are putting on?  Right.
I’m going to let Gil and I both take this question.
I just wanted personally it’s a very good question.
It’s one that we talked about at the Q4 2011 call.
And we’re in an interesting environment in that we’re winning so much business right now that it’s actually hurting the margin a bit because these are big big accounts and they come in you know depending on the account they could turn run rate margin level and profitable six months in but more likely it might be a year in or even a bit more.
So it’s an interesting – it’s a high-class problem to have that we’re winning so much new business that this now is impactful in a negative way on the margins.
And as I said on the fourth quarter call if you just kind of do the math in your head if you want the margins to move up nicely you actually stop winning new business and then you’d get there in 8 to 12 months.
We’re not going to stop winning new business.
But I do think that this pace of winning it’s unprecedented.
I’ve never seen anything like it.
And I think that that will normalize and become a steadier process for us in the last couple of years.
But the margins will get back to a number that I think is more typical for us; part of it will be these accounts these big big accounts we’re getting seasoning in part will be just a change in marketplace.
Again we’ve got an expert on the phone that might want to speak with us.
Mike you understand the question well and this is the issue of we bring in these huge accounts we don’t necessarily lose money on them in the early days but we certainly aren’t making a lot of money.
And the question I think the analyst-investors are trying to get their head around is you know how does that play out in the midterm?  And the answer you heard what we’re saying.
Any opinions on this Mike?  Well I guess the other thing I would add is the other lines of business are growing at equal or even some of the lines of business capital markets has been growing at a faster rate.
So when you consider the margins of the entire business and you think about our higher margin business lines certainly investment management certainly capital markets when it is stabilized and going into markets like we’re in today which we’re still operating at 60 to 70% of where we were in peek of ’07.
I would submit to you that the overall margins of the business again and the diversification of the entire pie really don’t dilute.
Yes on the front end there’s transition costs on these GSC accounts but we’ve been able to manage that year after year into the business we plan for it.
It’s the investments that then also fuel the growth of our business.
So we are investing back into our platform in a big way; in people and in technology and all those things.
I would submit to you that our corporate services professionals would say yes the more GCS business we’re going to add in overall relative to all of our lines of business may not be the highest margin business but I would submit that they’re all still – you know have night trajectories – trajectory of growth.
And our margins are pretty consistent year over year in that business.
It’s not a loss leader by any stretch.
We’re in that business to make money and find new ways to serve our clients in the higher-end margin pieces too.
So if we land an FM account it’s not unusual to find ourselves in a consulting role doing capital markets transactions doing sale leaseback transactions and adding on other services that can bolt onto those relationships.
So often times they are the gateway to just tremendous activity down the road with  very very long 15-20 year relationships.
And Mike makes a good point here.
I just want to stress it for our callers which is the way in which we account within our P&amp;L the various revenues that flow off of various business can be a little tricky.
And so when you look at a single line and you look at the outsourcing business for instance and you all know this on the phone call.
It is not the entire picture.
Lots of the higher margin revenues that flow off these accounts aren’t captured in that segment.
They’re captured in leasing they’re captured in – as Mike just said they’re captured in sales they’re captured in valuation.
And so just to paraphrase or say a different way from what Mike said when we tell you that in 2012 in a very tricky global economic environment that our margins will see solid growth part of the story there is higher margin work flowing from these corporate accounts even though the corporate account segment you’re looking at but it looked like the margins went down a bit because these businesses came in transient costs et cetera.
So I think Mike makes a very good point.
The big picture story here is that this business the other businesses we have all play a role in a firm that’s been able to grow margins quarter over quarter over quarter in up cycles and we intend to continue that going forward.
And by the way you know if having growth like this in the outsourcing business is one of the things we take massive pride in.
These are the absolute best in class world corporations who are trusting with us the facilities they work in.
This is great great stuff we’re seeing here.
Blair &amp; Co.
</strong> I think Gil touched a little bit on secondary market activity and kind of a twofold question there.
One would be you know pace of a recovery in the secondary markets for investment sales and Gil did your comment also include leasing or should we not assume that secondary markets are showing the same kind of trajectory for recovery and leasing or growth and leasing as they are for the [inaudible] business now?  Yes Gil’s going to let me catch this one.
I can’t help myself.
But here’s what I would say.
Again I want to go back to the same thing which is we’re in the early quarters of what I think is going to be a very exciting attractive recovery in the asset class.
And this is a particularly rocky uneven recovery.
So – and you know this as well as anyone on the phone call where we saw recovery start was in the safest places whether it was leasing or sales what we saw when the recover was people begin to make investments whether they’re owners or occupiers in those places they thought were bulletproof.
If they’re buying an asset it was made in Manhattan you’re going to open a data center or you were going to expand a corporate office you were doing it in the places where you felt most certain about your business.
As this recovery seasons that recovery and Gil referenced this earlier that recovery begins to move a bit up the risk spectrum.
And so what you see is you see assets and you’ve probably seen this personally you’ve seen assets begin to trade in areas outside of Main and Main in Manhattan.
You see corporate whether it’s retailer or industrial logistics firms or big office clients they begin to do things in markets outside of the major world financial centers.
It’s absolutely typical for an early-stage recovery and what we said a couple quarters ago I just want to remind you again is let’s look forward a year from now or whether it’s three quarters or five quarters or whatever it’s going to be this – the strength you see in the major markets in both leasing and sales will have spread out to the secondary and even some of the tertiary markets.
That’s just a cycle this business goes through and will go through for a very long time I think.
Blair &amp; Co.
</strong> And final question for me; I guess the conversion of the pipeline in I guess the three major segments; sales leasing and outsourcing appropriate services I guess pace or the kind of feel of conversation as you work through the first quarter how did that compare to either what it felt like last year’s first quarter or what it felt like in the fourth quarter?  Was there more predictability less predictability good things happening or you know out of the blue or deals getting pushed kind of out of the blue?  I guess I'm just trying to get a sense of how to compare your kind of costs of optimism shown with what we would have seen the past several quarters.
So I think the answer lies in the results.
And what you saw in the results was that we saw in Europe and Asia accruing of the investment property markets.
So definitionally what – let me translate that for you.
What you saw was hesitancy in closings.
What you saw was protracted closings.
What you saw was canceled closings.
When you see an investment – capital market cool down that’s what’s going on.
On the leasing side it’s a little bit different.
On the leasing side generally speaking when occupiers launch a property search and they get into a negotiation to lease 20 000 square feet of retail or 100 000 square feet of office they don’t generally collapse negotiations and walk away.
It’s a little more – I guess it’s a little more sticky and that’s why by the way the leafing – if you look over the last 20 years just look at the deltas in leasing revenues they are much much less volatile than what you see in the capital markets and it’s a lot about that.
I think anecdotally what I would say to you is that for the last eight quarters what we’ve seen is [inaudible] and starts.
And you and I have talked about it it’s you know you get some traction going in the spring of 2011 and people feel that things are a lot better and then there’s a shock to the system the euro sovereign debt issue.
And the suddenly the brakes are put on again.
And then you get some traction again and then there’s China housing bubble issue.
I think that we’re going to continue to see these kinds of things through the business until this recovery really gets it’s sea legs and it’s not there.
It’s getting incrementally better every quarter.
The fundamentals that Mike Lafitte referenced are getting better every quarter.
But it’s going to be a bumpy ride I think for a bit.
But again I want to put that in context.
You know if I’m describing a bumpy ride and revenues are up 14% for the quarter and EBITDA is up 25% for the quarter and we’re reaffirming guidance we’re telling you our margins are going to expand I’ll take that bumpy ride all day long.
Blair &amp; Co.
</strong> Yes.
I appreciate the commentary.
Thanks Brett.
You bet.
And we have a question from the line of Anthony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Your cash balance declined from year end as expected.
You guys paid bonuses and so forth.
But if you look at where – your guidance and so forth is if you hit numbers it seems like your cash balance would start to go back up to close to a billion dollars.
I’m just wondering how you’re thinking about use of that cash and just perhaps acquisition opportunities that might be out there.
Good question.
You’re absolutely right on the first quarter activity obviously with the seasonality of the business the balance will come down and then it ought to build as the year progresses.
The top of mind for us is de-levering.
I’ll remind you that we do have – we don’t have debt coming due but we do have callable debt in June of 2013.
And that is like expensive at 11.625% debt.
So I won’t give a definitive but I think logic would suggest that we need to look at that very carefully.
M&amp;A is always something that we look at you know we do it and we do it well.
And it is again something that is on the menu of items.
But short of something that is going to be accretive and very positive for us and strategic de-levering is really the order of the day.
And we’ve got a reason to do it with expensive debt coming due in June of ’13.
But at the moment we’re in a bit of wait-and-see that is looming and we are still in early days in terms of the cycle so there may be opportunities nothing definitive enough that we are going to talk about.
It’s just a function of where we are in the cycle that we’ve got these two opportunities I suppose to utilize cash.
But de-levering is top of mind.
I’m just going to add to that Anthony and I agree 100% with what Gil just said.
I’ll just add to this that at – in a market environment like we’re in M&amp;A is something that first of all it’s dial tone for us.
So we’re always looking at what’s out there and available.
You’re just going to see probably a little bit less of it in a marketplace like this.
If Gil said you know de-levering is certainly at the top of our list there’s a lot of movement in the market right now in terms of very small M&amp;A but not much is very attractive.
And we have our priorities at the moment that are not really built around doing 100 M&amp;A deals this year.
We’ve got this world class platform now top business line in every business line we’re in and really leveraging the synergies of this business lines and growing our business now with this great platform it’s a very very exciting proposition.
If an opportunity arises out in the marketplace as we’ve always said before you know in a good market or bad and this I would describe as a pretty good market we’re going to look at it.
But the high-quality opportunities are few and far between at the moment.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
And I’ll turn it back to our speakers for any closing remarks.
Great.
Well thanks everybody.
We’ll talk to you in another quarter.
Bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude our conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the CBRE Q2 earnings conference.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Nick Kormeluk.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to CBRE’s second quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
About an hour ago we issued a press release announcing our Q2 financial results.
This release is available on the home page of our website at www.cbre.com.
This conference call is being webcast and is available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Also available is the presentation slide deck which you can use to follow along with our prepared remarks.
An archive audio of the webcast and a PDF version of the slide presentation will be posted to the website later today and a transcript of our call will be posted tomorrow.
Please turn to the slide labeled Forward-Looking Statements.
This presentation contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements regarding our future growth momentum operations financial performance business outlook and our ability to integrate the ING REIM businesses.
These statements should be considered as estimates only and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Except to the extent required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forward-looking statements that you may hear today.
Please refer to our second quarter earnings report filed on Form 8-K our current Annual Report on Form 10-K and our current quarterly report on Form 10-Q in particular any discussion of risk factors or forward-looking statements which are filed with the SEC and available on the SEC’s website at sec.gov for a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any estimates that you may hear today.
We may make certain statements during the course of this presentation which includes references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations.
As required by these regulations we have provided reconciliations of these measures to what we believe are the most directly comparable GAAP measures which are attached hereto within the appendix.
Please turn to slide three.
Participating with me today are Brett White our Chief Executive Officer Bob Sulentic our President who as you know will succeed Brett as CEO at the end of the year and Gil Borok our Chief Financial Officer.
I will now turn the call over to Brett.
Thanks Nick and please turn to slide four.
I am glad we have Bob joining our call today.
Bob’s well known to most of you.
I know you will enjoy interacting with him more regularly as he gears to assume the CEO duty at the end of the year.
We are very pleased with our results for the quarter.
We grew our topline by double-digits improved our bottomline by nearly 30% and increased our normalized EBITDA margin by 170 basis points.
Our stronger performance reflects a broad well balanced global platform we have built over two decades.
One of which strengthens and certain the compliance in markets compensates weaknesses in others.
It also demonstrates our ability to control costs while executing on our growth strategy.
Right now the Americas is experiencing the best of all our region.
Our permanent position in markets across the U.S.
Canada and Latin America has enabled us to sustain double-digit revenue and profit growth despite the lack of meaningful job creation.
Asia-Pacific achieved solid growth in the second quarter as well; notwithstanding China’s economic slowdown.
As expected EMEA saw softer results as it continue to fight formidable headwind related to both the Euro zone’s ongoing economic and debt issues and notable negative currency effects.
Benefits continue to accrue from our acquisition of the ING REIM businesses last year.
We believe that the blending of ING REIM’s professional talent with our own has forged a new industry leader in real estate investment management and have certainly given us an enhanced stream of stable revenue at higher margins than most of our other businesses.
The 25% normalized EBITDA margin that this business achieved during the quarter served us particularly well in a choppy market environment and we expect positive contributions from the ING REIM acquisition to continue.
Our global outsourcing business continue to make strong gains with double-digit revenue growth for the seventh consecutive quarter.
We signed 54 total contracts including 24 with new outsourcing customers staying a company record for new wins in a quarter.
This business continues to exhibit good momentum for reasons we will discuss later.
Our capital markets business has also performed well.
Although a small component of total company revenue mortgage brokerage had robust revenue growth of 36% as loan origination volumes and related servicing demand continue to rise.
While still a relatively moderate portion of overall revenue property sales moved higher in all regions paced by the Americas reflecting generally soft occupier market condition particular in Europe property leasing edged up slightly on a global basis.
The Americas and Asia-Pacific accounted for the increase.
While the global market recovery progresses macro challenges continue to limit it's strength.
Nonetheless CBRE continues to be in an advantageous position.
Our unique combination of people brand and mature global platform gives us the ability to perform well for clients and shareholders and to build market spirit across our spectrum of services.
So on here on slide five our noble transactions we completed during or immediately following the quarter.
As usual I'll not go through them individually but we've included them for your review.
And with that Gil I'll turn the call over to you to go through the financial deck.
Thank you Brett.
Please advance to slide six.
Total revenue was approximately $1.6 billion for the second quarter of 2012 up 12% from last year or 13% when excluding discontinued operations.
This increase was driven by growth in outsourcing investment sales investment management and commercial mortgage brokerage.
Normalized EBITDA improved at more than twice the pace of revenue rising 28% to $220.9 million in the second quarter of 2012 from $172.4 million in the second quarter of 2011 and our normalized EBITDA margin expanded by 170 basis points to 13.8%.
Cost of services felled 240 basis points to 56.7% of total revenue in the second quarter of 2012 versus 59.1% in the second quarter of 2011.
This reduction was primarily driven by the fact that all costs associated with ING REIM which were not present in the second quarter of 2011 drove through the operating expense line as opposed to cost of services.
Despite the inclusion of all of ING REIM’s costs in operating expenses this line was essentially flat as a percentage of revenue compared to the second quarter of 2011 indicating effective cost management.
In the Americas and Asia-Pacific consistent with historical patterns positive operating leverage was readily apparent.
Due to the more fixed nature of costs in many parts of Europe and the rapid declining leasing revenues in EMEA during the quarter such operating leverage was not yet as evident in this region.
Interest expense increased by $10.2 million in the quarter as compared to the second quarter of 2011 primarily due to the full impact from the financing of ING REIM and the Sterling denominated term loan A1 facility that we were not present in the second quarter of 2011.
Our second quarter 2012 tax rate was approximately 40% and we expect the full year 2012 tax rate to be a little below this.
Second quarter 2012 GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.23 versus $0.19 last year and adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.27 versus $0.21 in the second quarter of 2011 an increase of almost 30%.
Please turn to slide seven.
Property and facilities management was our largest service line in the second quarter of 2012 representing 34% of total revenue in the quarter with a 10% increase over the second quarter of 2011.
Leasing was our second largest service line representing 30% of total revenue in the second quarter of 2012 with increases in the Americas and Asia-Pacific.
Investment sales accelerated to a growth rate of 16% in the second quarter of 2012 driven by the Americas with positive contributions from EMEA and Asia-Pacific as well.
It represented 16% of total revenues in the second quarter of 2012.
Global investment and management revenue more than doubled again quarter-over-quarter driven by increases in asset management fees attributable to the ING REIM businesses.
Appraisal and valuation revenue increased 6% to $95.2 million led by business in Asia-Pacific that was acquired late in the second quarter of 2011.
Commercial mortgage brokerage revenue grew 36% year-over-year driven by continued capital availability generally low interest rates competitive spreads and investors continued search for yield.
Development services revenue was up slightly to $15.5 million.
Revenue from property and facilities management fees for assets under management loan servicing fees and leasing commissions from existing clients are all largely recurring.
This revenue comprised approximately 57% of total revenue for the second quarter of 2012.
Although not our typical sequence I will briefly cover our debt maturity and capitalization table before handing the call over to Bob.
Slide eight shows the amortization and debt maturity schedule for all outstanding debt.
This is virtually unchanged from the first quarter of 2012.
With considerable liquidity and cash flow we remain very comfortable with our debt maturity schedule and the flexibility it provides.
Please turn to slide nine.
Excluding cash within consolidated funds and other entities not available for company use and excluding our non-recourse real estate loans and our mortgage brokerage warehouse facilities our total net debt at the end of the second quarter of 2012 was approximately $1.9 billion.
This is flat as compared to the end of first quarter of 2012 and up versus the end of 2011 due to bonuses and other incentive compensation payments made in the first half of the year.
Consistent with historical trends our net debt is expected to decrease as the year progresses.
At the end of the second quarter of 2012 our weighted average interest rate was approximately 5.7% when including interest rate swaps similar to the end of the first quarter of 2012.
Our leverage ratio on a covenant basis now stands at 1.76 times at the end of the second quarter of 2012 on a trailing 12 month basis.
Our total company net debt to trailing 12 month EBITDA stood at 2.19 times.
I will now turn the call over to Bob who will cover business line performance.
Thanks Gill I am glad to once again to be joining these calls on a regular basis.
Please turn to slide 10.
Our outsourcing business continued its pattern of consistent growth driven by record new account additions.
In the second quarter of this year we signed 54 contracts the second highest total in company history.
We landed 24 new accounts the most ever for a single quarter 21 renewals and 9 expansions.
All of this contract activity in the second quarter and for many prior quarters suggests very strong underlying momentum in our outsourcing business and we expect that momentum to continue well into the future.
The outsourcing trend is being propelled by globalization and the desire by occupiers of all sizes and across industries to increase efficiency and improve all our overall performance particularly in light of the global economic slowdown.
For this reason this business has significant headroom for growth.
We believe there is as much as $50 billion to $60 billion in total market potential.
We are poised to capture a significant percentage in this opportunity by delivering services to more space users and establish outsourcing markets as well as newer markets.
For example we see big potential among midcap companies which accounted for more than a third of our total contracts in the second quarter.
We also continue to add customers in the government and healthcare sectors where cost pressures are especially acute.
We saw evidence of this in the second quarter with three new contracts in the government sector and three new contracts plus a client expansion in the healthcare sector.
In addition four large corporations selected us to provide various services to their properties in Latin America and we were hired by Sony to handle transaction management and lease administration in Asia Pacific and EMEA.
Please turn to slide 11 which demonstrates steadily decreasing vacancy rates and positive absorption in all three market sectors depicted along with forecasted improvement over the next two years.
Average national cap rates were slightly down in the second quarter versus both the first quarter of this year and the second quarter of last year primarily due to continued strength in core and Class A property sales.
Please turn to slide 12; the Americas posted very good growth in property sales revenue in the second quarter which continued to be driven by activity in core markets with modest improvement in secondary markets.
Our position as a market leader across asset sectors office industrial retail and multifamily and our ability to provide integrated equity and debt solutions are clearly a distinct advantage.
Our CA data shows that we improved market share by 230 basis points from a year ago to 16.2% in the second quarter of this year once again the highest in the industry.
Leasing markets generally showed some improvement in the second quarter with vacancy rates declining modestly.
During the quarter the US office vacancy rates fell 30 basis points to 15.7% compared to the first quarter of this year indicating that our office market recovery remains intact.
Market fundamentals continue to be helped by very low levels of new construction occupier demand however remains modest.
In light of this second quarter leasing revenue increase of 5% is a good result and inline with our expectations.
This growth reflects our premier position in key business centers such as New York City where we negotiated four of the five largest leased transactions in the first half of this year.
Our Americas' outsourcing business grew by a strong 13% in the second quarter.
Please turn to slide 13.
In EMEA property sales provided a positive surprise despite almost daily headlines about the Euro Zone debt crisis and heightened investor anxiety.
Our EMEA sales revenue rose 3% in the second quarter excluding the notable impact of negative foreign currency movement.
EMEA sales revenue grew by 11%.
We’re especially pleased with this outcome given the property sales activity across most of the EMEA as weak.
Recent performance show greater effects from the flat lining economies across Europe.
While average rents across the region have remained relatively stable occupiers have been hesitant to make commitments in the current environment.
As a result EMEA leasing revenue decreased 17% in the second quarter of 2012 versus the same quarter in 2011.
Excluding the impact of foreign exchange leasing declined 10% in the second quarter versus second quarter last year.
Consistent with our first quarter results France in particular had a very negative comparison against a strong second quarter in 2011.
The EMEA outsourcing revenue was flat in the second quarter as compared to the second quarter of last year.
This was primarily driven by negative foreign currency movements excluding the impact of foreign currency outsourcing revenue grew 9%.
Our total revenue in EMEA declined 5%.
However when excluding the impact of foreign exchange it grew 3%.
Please turn to slide 14.
Asia-Pacific generated solid growth in all three major business lines during the second quarter.
We saw excellent performance in Japan as the economy there continue to recover from last year’s natural disaster and the related investment in infrastructure continued.
Investors increasingly proceed towards Japan as a safe heaven and a near integral part of any overall Asia investment strategy.
Australia India and Singapore all performed well despite moderating global economic activity.
Property sales revenue advanced 4% in the second quarter led by activity in Japan excluding the impact of negative foreign currency movements the increase was 8%.
Leasing revenue in Asia Pacific grew 6% with growth evident in almost all geographies excluding the impact of foreign exchange growth was 9%.
Outsourcing revenue improved by 5% in the second quarter versus the second quarter last year and excluding the impact of foreign exchange outsourcing revenue grew 13%.
Our total revenue growth in Asia Pacific was 11% when excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Please turn to slide 15.
Revenue for the development of services segment totaled $17.8 million in the second quarter versus $17.2 million in the second quarter last year.
Second quarter EBITDA declined by $6.6 million from the second quarter of last year due to higher profits from property sales in the prior year quarter.
At the end of the second quarter in process development totaled $4.7 billion and the pipeline totaled $1.4 billion.
Our equity core investments at the end of the second quarter in development services totaled $89.2 million and our recourse debt stood at only $15 million.
Please turn to slide 16 second quarter 2012 global investment management revenue increased to $119.7 million from $58.9 million in the second quarter of last year.
The increase resulted from higher asset management fees largely stemming from the inclusion of ING REIM which contributed approximately $7 million revenue in the second quarter.
Assets under management or AUM totaled $91.2 billion at the end of the second quarter down from $95.9 billion at the end of the first quarter this year.
$2.8 billion of the draft was due to a non-traded reach board's decision to internalize its management.
In addition AUM declined in the current quarter by $1.8 billion due to currency fluctuations and $500 million due to declines in asset values primarily in Europe.
And $400 million due to dispositions while acquisitions added $800 million to our assets under the management.
Included in the $91.2 billion of AUM at the end of the second quarter was $21.4 billion of listed securities.
Net outflows combined with changes in market valuation in this portfolio decreased AUM by $300 million dollars versus the end of first quarter.
During the second quarter of this year we raised new equity capital of approximately $700 million in the direct real estate business and had approximately $2.6 billion of equity capital to deploy at the end of the quarter.
Our core investments in this business at the end of the quarter totaled $215.1 million.
Please turn to slide 17.
Our global investment management EBITDA reconciliation is shown here.
In the second quarter of 2012 we incurred $9.1 million of expenses related to the ING REIM acquisition primarily for retention severance facilities and information technology.
As of June 30th this year the company maintained accumulative accrual of carried interest compensation expense of approximately $40 million which pertains to anticipated future carried interest revenue.
This reflects a reduction of $4 million from the end of the first quarter due to no income tax related distribution.
This business operated at a pro forma normalized EBITDA margin of 25% for the second quarter of 2012.
Brett I will now turn the call back over to you.
Thanks Bob and please turn to slide 18.
The commercial real estate recovery continues to progress at a historically slow pace relative to prior recoveries with a high degree of inconsistency globally.
We are pleased that CBRE continues to perform well and we continue to build our position as a market leader Our views following the completion of the first half of 2012 are that outsourcing is expected to continue its strong consistent growth trend leasing growth rates should be relatively modest investment sales growth will vary widely depending on local and regional market dynamics and finally then investment management will benefit from a full year contribution from the acquired ING REIM businesses.
With the first half now behind us we remain comfortable with our full year normalized EPS guidance at a $1.20 to $1.25 with higher normalized EBITDA margins than in 2011.
However given the ongoing uncertainty regarding the global economic picture we will take a close look at our guidance again at the conclusion of the third quarter which of course is our standard practice.
And with that operator we’ll take now questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question will come from the line of Anthony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
The facilities management business you mentioned 50 to 60 billion of potential revenue or potential in that business first thing is that an annual revenue number that you're citing? That $50 billion to $60 billion potential tax revenue is an annual figure for the total outsourcing segment.
So we believe like this is a very big market as you know.
It's a market that’s very difficult to size but if we extrapolate what we think is out there in terms of total firms that could outsource and all of the services that could be outsourced you are going to get to a number we think generally in that range.
Okay so this is potentially folks that would outsource not necessary that they're outsourcing now and you just haven’t [thought]? That’s right this is total potential market.
Okay what's been sort of the conversion over the past I don't know two or three years to an outsourcing model.
Trying to get a sense as to you know have you been driving it from share has the market just expanding very quickly? Is there anyway to put some parameters around that? Well I think you know first Anthony if you just observe that the two firms that are doing most of this work are ourselves and our good competitor back east.
We both have been reporting very strong growth rates in this business and I think that’s a combination of two things.
The first is the market is clearly expanding more quickly or has been expanding more quickly the last three four years than it has in prior years.
So the business is maturing and more and more firms are coming to market with outsourcing contracts.
The second dynamic though that greatly supports our firm is the movement of outsourcing work away from niche [boutique] and regional players over to true global firms and so that trend which has been extinct for quite sometime as you know Anthony is a big benefiting dynamic to ourselves and to one other firm in the industry.
In Europe is Europe getting better or worse from the point of view of just seeing some what of a normal flow of either leasing and/or sales transactions I guess what I am asking is are people becoming more constricted or are they adapting to this environment? Right well I think it's fair to say that Europe is a very unsettled region and it's a region that has not been given the opportunity to take a pause catch their breath and deal with the trends that are extinct in their market place.
There seems to be a new issue as you know Anthony in Europe every week every month.
So the market place in Europe is troubled and when you have a market place like that what tends to happen is people freeze on making decisions around dispositions of real estate acquisitions of real estate expanding their business' footprint contracting their business' footprint.
Everybody take the time out until they can digest what is going on in their market place and this market is – Europe market is very dynamic.
I don't think anybody in Europe at the moment we certainly can’t predict with any uncertainty what that marketplace is going to look like a month from now much less a year from now and until that sort of view is available in the marketplace until large customers of ours can look forward for a few quarters may have some comfort around what that marketplace is going to be bring them this market is going to remain troubled as you saw in the leasing volumes and you saw in the sales volumes.
I do want to ask Bob who is on the line to add his commentary to this.
Europe reports to Bob and he is much more closer to that situation than I am.
Bob what would you like to add to that.
Well first of all I agree with all of it Brett.
I think that’s a very good description of what’s going on.
Obviously we saw a different circumstance with investment properties than we did with leasing in the last quarter and I think the explanation for that is in core markets and there certainly are some important core markets there most notably London.
People are going to invest in real estate because they think they can get some yield.
It’s so hard to get yield on anything you invest in today that there is going to be investment in core solid properties and we saw some of that.
The flip side is for leasing businesses simply aren’t going to make decisions with this much uncertainty and we saw real pressure in the leasing market.
So that’s really the only thing that I would add to what Brett said and generally I agree with the whole description.
And Anthony I would just add to Bob’s comments into my own.
This is a sentiment issue.
So at the moment as you know and all of our callers know capital is very easy to obtain.
Businesses if they choose to can make investments with their own cash or through borrowed funds.
This is a sentiment issue and if there is good news or a silver lining around this dark cloud in Europe it is when sentiment changes there is an enormous amount of pent-up demand that needs to be satisfied.
And we believe that of course this situation will at some point resolve and when it does we should see some very good performance out of Europe and when that occurs who knows.
In the press release you talked about just cost discipline is there anything just specifically any programs to actually cut cost at this point or is it just being mindful? What's happening there? Anthony it's just status quo.
So as you know and I hope everyone on the phone knows it is simply part of our culture to be very mindful about margins.
Once again we are very proud this quarter with our performance at the margin side.
We again have the leading margins in the industry.
That comes from hard work but also comes from our culture which is to mind costs while making smart long-term investments in the business.
We have no particular  programs under way right now in terms of restructuring or the types of things I think you are referring to but it's fair to say that in an environment like the one we are currently operating everybody is very careful of the OpEx line.
Let me ask Gill to add any comments he would like to that? Okay thanks.
But Anthony I think the reason that we highlighted it was it is quite visible certainly in the Americas and in Asia Pacific as we've had some improvement in transaction revenues and idea was to remind folks that sometimes it does take a little while to see that leverage clearly.
We are seeing it very well in Q2 in Americas and Asia Pac.
Not as much in Europe but when you delve with the cost as we do it certainly is just a situation where revenue is down there and so you not seeing the leverage as much as you might in the other two regions.
And then just last question Gill the tax rate worked about 42 % in the quarter.
What should we -- it just seems a little higher for six months versus last year.
Any thoughts on what we should be looking at through the balance of the year just how to think about the year in total? Yeah I think we actually said it but it’s slightly south of 40% for the year.
You sometimes have the street items in the quarter in any particular quarter that on a quarterly basis can raise it a little bit or lower than little bit but for the year I expect a little bit under 40%.
Thank you.
The next question will come from the line of Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Please go ahead.
A couple of things a couple of quarters ago you talked a little bit about take a look at where your headcount was I think it was on US on the leasing side of the business it doesn't sound like if there's any updated thoughts there in terms of adding more headcount given how the markets are growing but maybe you could address what the plans are going to be in the back half of the year in the US in particular? I think you are referring to comments we made last year regarding recruiting is that what you are referring to? Correct.
So you know it’s a matter for standard course of business; we are always looking for talent in the industry.
There's a normal attrition rate that we have to deal with every year and there's a certain amount of hiring we like to make every year on the competitive side.
I think the trend that we spoke about last year remains the same this year which is there is a clear fundamental dynamic in the industry of high quality talent moving from where we described its kind of a regional or national players over to the global player and that's were the reasons that we referenced earlier on outsourcing growth.
There's just more and more the larger high ticket clients are moving to these firms and so therefore so is the talent.
I also wanted to ask Bob to comment on this again Americas reports to Bob and Bob this question is regarding our recruiting this year and whether or not we are seeing good things there or not.
Well I would bifurcate the question into two parts our absolute recruiting and our net recruiting.
In an absolute sense we've done a good amount of recruiting and in the net sense its been much closer to flat.
And the reason for that is that we are upgrading positions around our system in a very strategic way and with that plan in place to get that done I suspect that that effort is going to play out and you are going to start to see an increase in headcount over the next year or so as we go from replacing some spots where we wanted to upgrade actually adding that headcount.
Okay as you think about the pretty strong start to the year for six months in the property management business the impact of onboarding those contracts in the back half of the year should we expect margin pressure out of that part of the business or are you starting to get any benefit from the deals you guys onboarded last year and should outstrip the costs that will come on in the back half of this year? I think there will be some transition cost impact which we have seen but I don't expect it to be as notable as what we saw last year because you are right some of what we onboarded last year is now maturing and we are getting into more of a mature portfolio in that regard.
The larger contact deals are more and more so I think its going to be apples-to-apples a lot more comparable.
And a final question from me in the US run investment sales as you work through the second quarter looking at secondary markets or kind of Class B property types; any further progress there in terms of maybe a quicker pace of recovery in those markets than you saw in the first quarter or is it still pretty lackluster? I would describe it Brandon this way there is still a concentrated focus on core markets and core real estate.
But that having been said there has been an awful lot of money raised in the past 24 months with a value add type hurdle to it and those returns are only available in the secondary and tertiary markets and we are seeing a decent amount of activity in those markets.
I discussed with the clients just the other day who bought a very large office asset in Orange County.
It was 40% vacant.
The yield on that building with the vacancy was north of 7%.
That’s a true value-added transaction.
They told me they bid against a number of buyers to get that building.
So you know I would say as this market continues to season as it continues to mature or you hear more and more of those stories and the core focus we’re seeing in the last two years will still be the element of the market but it won't be the only headline story.
Final one.
Any large kind of single transactions last year in the third quarter either on leasing or sale side that we should be aware of from a year-on-year comparison basis? No nothing to call out.
Thank you.
The next question will come from the line of Will Marks with JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
I wanted to just ask on I guess first of all any further ING integration cost are those all behind you? No there are still more to come in Q3 and Q4.
Approximately how much can you give us? Well there is some that will come at the EBITDA line and some that will come to amortization.
In total I think about 1 500 in each of Q3 and Q4.
That’s 15 million.
Second question on we’ve read a lot of industry of course and then I don’t think I’ve seen you guys quote this but just on US industry leasing volumes being weaker than expected at the beginning of the year and definitely showing a decline for the full year and certainly year-to-date looks pretty good.
I am wondering if the components of your guidance have changed at all for that anything else?  No they haven’t and just to let me put a final point on your question.
If you look at the second quarter in the US which is you talked about US market I will answer on US market.
Number of transactions for us in the leasing business was basically flat.
The length of lease in the second quarter was basically flat; it was actually down 1%.
But the average lease size was actually up 5% for the quarter so those three dynamics which are the dynamics to give us revenue gives a 7% increase from reported leasing revenue for all product types in the second quarter of 2012 versus second quarter of 2011 that’s a decent number given this current market environment and there is nothing going on in that business that is materially different from what we forecast when we built our guidance for the year.
Okay I asked you actually to repeat that so average lease size up 5% meaning the dollar value of the lease?  Square foot per transaction.
Square foot okay.
And then rental rate did you say is flat?   What I've said was that the number of transactions was down 1%.
Right.
The lease term was down 1%.
Okay.
And the square foot was up 5%.
The rental rate increase year-over-year I am going to give you a rough number called 2.5% total rental will give you a little bit finer number to that but it’s a rough science.
So I think 2.5% for them I would say it could be the right number.
(Operator Instructions) The next question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Sure so it's like I understood you right on the cost side it sounds like you are being mindful there but just to be clear and you don’t have any plans to take significant cost out of EMEA? What Gill said and I'll just underscore it is that EMEA along with Asia Pacific Americas and our global business lines are all being mindful on cost.
When we talk about taking material cost out we'll talk about that when we are going to do something that likely fallen to restructuring charge and there is nothing going on in the business right now that would lead us to talk about that at the moment.
But we are watching EMEA carefully obviously as you know David but I'll look at the other callers I know as well the cost structures in Europe are different than the Americas and Asia Pacific and a lot of the cost that you have underpinning your business in Europe is more structural than it is variable and its hard to get out in this another market.
So what tends to happen is it's in the [lack] of it in Europe on the cost side and I think the underscoring point that is important for our callers to understand is that as you saw in our performance for the quarter and for the first half of the year we are paying a lot of attention to cost.
And we are going to continue to pay a lot of attention to cost until these markets are stabilized in growing at a rate that we think indicates a good recovery.
Gill anything you want to add on cost issues in Europe.
No I think I've said what I was going to tell reiterated which that again because of the revenue situation there in the quarter and the decrease in leasing in particular there is no leverage that to (inaudible) like it is in the Americas and Asia Pacific as far as we are paying attention to cost and obviously in all three regions and Europe is the most concerning at the moment given the results but nothing particular to talk of.
And maybe David to put another angle on what you should not expect to see in Europe are large cost increases year-over-year and so in a market like Europe where you are able to make the biggest impact on cost tends to be on deferring additional expenses of the business rather than say in Americas or Asia Pacific where it's fairly straightforward to reduce tens of millions of dollars of cost very quickly and very easily.
That's just not as easy to do in Europe.
But yeah as we mentioned in our script earlier one of the great benefits of this firm is that we are so highly diversified on product line.
We have so many businesses that we benefit from that the firm can absorb issues like Europe right now and still post industry-leading margins and industry-leading profits.
That's by design and that allows us to be patient with Europe not to make draconian cuts to their cost structure because our Europe business is a terrific business and we are very comfortable with where they stand at the moment on their cost side although we are concerned as Gill said on the revenue side.
And then in the fourth quarter you are going to have a full quarter anniversary of the ING acquisition.
When you look at your full-year adjusted EBITDA margin that's obviously benefiting from that but would you expect year-over-year adjusted EBITDA margin expansion in the fourth quarter as you have that full quarter anniversary of ING? Yeah David in isolation that's correct but if you recall back to when we did our fourth quarter call back in February and we gave our outlook for 2012 what essentially we said was is we called out certain development gains that -- I think I use the terminology outsized at the time.
They were gains that certainly were normal course for development but then they were those that were outside.
And so my comments were around the fact that in the principal businesses whatever upside there was from investment management which at the EPS line remember is reduced by things like interest expense amortization that doesn’t get normalized and so forth.
When you look at the net income or EPS line whatever favorability we had would more or less be offset by absence of development gains.
And so that's how I think you ought to -- at this point I still would affirm that's how you ought to think about the fourth quarter and the year so that the upside and the expansion in margin will come from the services business which is exactly how we ended up when we gave the outlook at the beginning of the year.
And next we’ll go to a follow up from Anthony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead I think you mentioned maybe it was $2.6 billion of equity that still needs to be deployed in investment management and I was wondering is A do you correct fees on that currently or is that kind of a revenue backlog if you will and B is there anything like on the flipside for instance where you have an exit [cue] on any of your funds that are of size? Anthony in terms of the fees we collect fees when we deploy the capital and in terms of exits we announced the single biggest exit we anticipate for the year which is the non-traded REIT that we were the manager for where the management has been internalized.
So we wouldn’t expect to see anything of major significance like that between now and the end of the year.
It was that -- just to get a sense is there something we should pull out of numbers like did that happen late in the quarter? Is it that material in terms of the internalization of the manager there with a non-traded REIT? Yes it was announced and I forget the exact time.
I think it was probably late May or early June and I just say that there is no single fund in the US or no single venture in the US that is going to impact the fees fees for assets under management in a material way and the business of this size.
You might get a little more of that in Europe where those core funds the fees are based in large part on market valuations but again core funds don’t fluctuate the way a value add does.
So short answer I guess is no we don’t expect a material impact.
Thank you and I will now turn it back for closing remarks.
Please continue.
Thanks everyone.
We are very pleased with our quarter and we look forward to continued good results for the year.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the CBRE Third Quarter Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I’d now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Nick Kormeluk with Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
And welcome to CBRE’s third quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
About an hour ago we issued a press release announcing our Q3 financial results.
This release is available on the homepage of our website at cbre.com.
This conference call is being webcast and is available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Also available is the presentation slide deck which you can use to follow along with our prepared remarks.
An archive audio of the webcast and a PDF version of the slide presentation will be posted to the website later today and a transcript of our call will be posted tomorrow.
Please turn to slide labeled Forward-Looking Statements.
This presentation contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements regarding our future growth momentum operations financial performance and business outlook.
These statements should be considered as estimates only and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Except to the extent required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forward-looking statements that you may hear today.
Please refer to our third quarter earnings report filed on Form 8-K and our current annual report on Form 10-K and our current quarterly report on Form 10-Q in particular any discussion of risk factors or forward-looking statements which are filed with the SEC and available at the SEC’s website sec.gov for a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any estimates that you may hear today.
We may make certain statements during the course of this presentation which include references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations.
As required by these regulations we have provided reconciliations of these measures to what we believe are the most directly comparable GAAP measures which are attached hereto within the appendix.
Please turn to slide three.
Participating with me today are Brett White our Chief Executive Officer; Bob Sulentic our President who as you know will succeed Brett as CEO at the end of the year; and Gil Borok our Chief Financial Officer.
I’ll now turn the call over to Brett.
Thank you Nick and please turn to slide four.
As you know the market environment turned more cautious in the third quarter of this year.
Many investors and occupiers deferred making decisions and commitments concerns about ongoing European sovereign debt issues and slowing growth in Asia which have been vain on the markets most of the year were joined by heightened uncertainty starting from lower corporate profit expectations as well as the upcoming U.S.
election and so called fiscal cliff.
The increase caution was manifested in lower business volumes particularly sale and lease transactions.
In most of our geographies also across EMEA this was also the case in all other significant service lines.
Despite this very challenging macro conditions we were nevertheless able to improve revenue while holding operating expenses flat exclusive of cost containment expenses thereby supporting normalized EBITDA and adjusted earnings per share and preserving our industry-leading margins.
This of course is a credit to our people and our broad diverse global platform.
We’ve worked hard over a number of years to build a well-balanced integrated platform to meet the needs of our clients.
The benefits of these efforts will vary evident in the third quarter of this year.
Our acquisition of the ING REIM business has added significant and largely recurring fee based revenue to our Global Investment Management operations.
As a result this segment saw revenue grow sharply and its contribution to total company normalized EBITDA versus the third quarter of 2011 increased significantly.
We’re quite pleased with the 32% normalized EBITDA margin this business delivered in the third quarter and we believe it is indicative of where it can perform on a consistent basis.
Outsourcing continue to grow solidly with revenue up 7% globally or 11% in local currency and 13% in the Americas.
Steady adoption of outsourcing continues and CBRE remains well-positioned to capitalize on this trend.
We signed 67 total contracts in the third quarter our highest total ever for one quarter including 25 with new customers and 16 contract expansions also single quarter company records.
Despite the slowdown in global investment sales our mortgage brokerage business posted a double-digit revenue increase driven by our deep and strong position in the U.S.
multi-family finance market.
These two business lines outsourcing and mortgage brokerage were the biggest growth drivers in our Americas operations.
While the property sales market was soft we were able to expand the gap between ourselves and the number two firm in the world’s two largest investment markets which are drawing global capital through their status as relative safe-haven namely the United States and United Kingdom.
The current recovery unlike previous ones remains frustratingly slow and inconsistent.
Nevertheless we continue to believe that the recoveries are ongoing and as we’ve been saying for some time remain subject to quick swings in market sentiment as we saw in the third quarter.
We do expect the solid finish to the year in light of current business pipeline and as always we cautioned against judging the underlying trends in our business based on a 90-day timeframe.
Some of the most notable transactions we completed during or immediately following the quarter are shown here on slide five.
As usual I’ll not go through them individually but we’ve included them for your review.
And with that I’ll now turn the call over to Gil to discuss our overall performance.
Thank you Brett.
Please advance to slide six.
Total revenue was approximately $1.6 billion for the third quarter of 2012 up 1% from last year or 5% in local currency.
This increase was driven by growth in outsourcing Investment Management and Commercial Mortgage Brokerage.
We recorded normalized EBITDA of $195.3 million in the third quarter of 2012 versus $194.8 million in the third quarter of 2011 for a normalized EBITDA margin of 12.5% close to our 12.7% EBITDA margin achieved last year.
Cost of services increase 50 basis points to 58.8% of total revenue in the third quarter of 2012 versus 58.3% in the third quarter of 2011.
This increase was driven by cost containment expenses incurred in the third quarter of 2012 and the decline in transaction revenues in certain geographies that has significant fix cost compensation structure.
Despite the inclusion of all of the ING REIM costs in the operating expense line item and cost containment expenses incurred in the third quarter of 2012.
Operating expense as a percentage of revenue in the third quarter increased by just 40 basis points from 30.6% of revenue in the third quarter of 2011 to 31% of revenue in the third quarter of 2012.
In light of lower business volumes in EMEA in the first six months of the year and our expectations for the second half of the year.
We took further cost contain actions in this region primarily headcount reductions that resulted in a charge of approximately $16 million.
This charge as well as a charge of approximately $2 million for cost containment actions in Japan has been normalize and should result in savings of approximately $10 million on a run rate basis for 2013 and beyond.
Furthermore revert of the value of the trade name in the United Kingdom that is no longer being broadly utilized.
The non-cash write-off of this intangible asset was approximately $20 million and was also normalized.
Interest expense increased by $4.6 million in the quarter versus the third quarter of 2011 primarily due to the full impact from the financing of ING REIM acquisitions and the sterling denominated term loan A1 facility that was entered into in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our third quarter 2012 tax rate was approximately 31%.
This was primarily driven by the benefits derive from a legal reorganization of certain entities in Asia-Pacific that was largely discreet to the quarter.
We are continuing to focus on the tax efficiency of legal entity and operating structure.
For these reasons we now anticipate a tax rate of approximately 35% for the full year 2012.
Depreciation and amortization expense increased $8.8 million in the quarter versus the third quarter of 2011 primarily due to depreciation on recent increase IT-related capital expenditures and higher amortization of intangible assets associated with the ING REIM acquisitions.
Third quarter 2012 GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.12 versus $0.20 last year.
While our normalized EBITDA in the third quarter of 2012 was comparable to the prior year quarter the combination of increased interest depreciation and amortization expense was more than offset by a lower tax provision that reduced adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.26 in the third quarter of 2012 which was up 8% as compared to $0.24 in the third quarter of 2011.
Please turn to slide seven.
Property and facilities management was our largest service line in the third quarter of 2012 representing 36% of total revenue in the quarter with a 7% increase or 11% in local currency over the third quarter of 2011.
Leasing remained our second largest service line representing 29% of total revenue in the third quarter of 2012 but experienced softness globally as compared to the third quarter of 2011 mostly due to increased uncertainty.
Investment sales slowed by 7% or 4% in local currency in the third quarter of 2012 with weakness also felt globally as investors grew more hesitant to deploy capital.
Global investment management revenue increased 54% quarter-over-quarter driven by increases in asset management fees attributable to the ING REIM businesses.
Appraisal and valuation revenue remained flat in the third quarter of 2012 as compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Commercial mortgage brokerage revenue grew 11% year-over-year driven by continued capital availability generally low interest rates competitive spreads and investors continued search for yield.
It should be noted that this is primarily U.S.-based business where investment activity and sentiment particularly in the multi-family sector remain stronger than in other parts of the world.
Development services revenue was down slightly to $15.9 million.
Revenue from property and facilities management fees for assets under management loan servicing fees and leasing commissions from existing clients are all largely recurring.
This revenue comprised approximately 62% of total revenue for the third quarter of 2012.
Please turn to slide eight.
Our outsourcing business continued its pattern of consistent growth driven by record total contracts signed and new account additions particularly in the Americas.
In the third quarter of 2012 we signed 67 contracts once again a new record total in company history.
We closed 25 new accounts the most ever for actually in a single quarter 26 renewals and 16 expansions also a quarterly company record.
In sectors that we see as particularly promising for growth the company was awarded six new contracts and two expansions in the healthcare and government verticals.
Reflecting the increase globalization of outsourcing the company was awarded two new contracts in the EMEA and won two new contracts in secured three client expansions in Asia-Pacific.
As we have previously noted we believe the total available market for this business is $50 billion to $60 billion.
We continue to make good progress on capturing new business and feel confident about our continued global prospects for this business.
Please turn to slide nine.
This slide demonstrates steadily decreasing vacancy rates and positive absorption in all three market sectors depicted along with forecasted improvement over the next year.
Average national cap rates were stable in the third quarter of 2012 versus the second quarter of 2012 and slightly down as compared to the third quarter of 2011 primarily due to continued strength in core property sales.
Please turn to slide 10.
The Americas region showed moderate revenue growth in the aggregate driven by outsourcing.
Investment sales revenue in the Americas declined by 5% in the third quarter of 2012 versus the third quarter of 2011 as investors grew more cautious about deploying capital.
CBRE once again held the number one position in the U.S.
investment market for the third quarter and the first nine months of the year.
Despite the weakness in leasing activity this quarter the incremental office market recovery continued as the vacancy rate fell by 20 basis points to 15.5%.
Over the past year the office vacancy rate declined by 70 basis points indicating that the recovery is continuing in spite of the domestic and global economic headwinds.
Americas outsourcing revenue grew by a strong 13% in the third quarter of 2012.
Please turn to slide 11.
Our total revenue in EMEA declined 17%.
However when excluding the impact of foreign currency it was down 9%.
The lack of global economic growth for the region also resulted in a 17% drop in investment sales revenue in the third quarter of 2012 as compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency investment sales revenue declined 10%.
The drop was driven by weakness in France and Germany.
However the United Kingdom showed strong growth as a result of the ongoing desirability of London-based prime assets.
We were pleased to see that our share of United Kingdom investment sales activity nearly doubled compared to a year ago based on information from property data.
Leasing revenue declined 24% quarter-over-quarter illustrating the impact of economic uncertainty on occupied sentiment and the resulting caution with which they took new space and made long-term commitments.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency leasing revenue declined 18%.
As with sales activity France and Germany were particularly weak in the third quarter of 2012.
The EMEA outsourcing revenue decreased 12% in the third quarter of 2012 versus the third quarter of 2011.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency outsourcing revenue was down only 2% primarily due to reduced project management work versus a year ago.
Please turn to slide 12.
Our total revenue in Asia-Pacific was down 4% as compared to the third quarter of 2011.
But when excluding the impact of foreign currency it was up 2%.
While the U.S.
owned debt prices and sluggish U.S.
growth have hampered economic activity in Asia-Pacific all year.
The decline in the rate of economic growth in China as well as other countries in the region caused investors and occupiers to be more cautious in the third quarter of 2012.
Property sales revenue declined 6% in the third quarter of 2012 as compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency investment sales revenue declined by 2%.
Leasing revenue in Asia-Pacific declined 12% and excluding the impact of foreign currency the decline was 9%.
Outsourcing revenue improved by 4% in the third quarter of 2012 versus the third quarter of 2011 excluding the impact of foreign currency outsourcing revenue actually grew by 14%.
Please turn to slide 13.
Revenue for the development services segment totaled $17.8 million in the third quarter of 2012 versus $18.8 million in the third quarter of 2011 while third quarter normalized EBITDA declined by $1.4 million from the third quarter of 2011 to $3.8 million.
At the end of the third quarter of 2012 in process development totaled $4.6 billion and the pipeline totaled $1.9 billion.
Our equity co-investments at the end of the third quarter of 2012 in the development services business totaled $82.1 million and our recourse debt stood at $15.7 million.
Please turn to slide 14.
Third quarter 2012 Global Investment Management revenue increased to $114.3 million from $77.4 million in the third quarter of 2011.
The increase resulted from higher asset management fees stemming from the inclusion of ING REIM Europe and Asia which contributed approximately $46 million in revenue in the third quarter of 2012.
It should be noted that the global real estate securities component of the business was acquired from ING on July 1 2011 and is therefore fully included in both the current and prior quarters.
Assets under management or AUM totaled $90.4 billion at the end of the third quarter of 2012 down $800 million from the second quarter of 2012.
This was comprised increases of $1 billion from acquisitions $500 million from asset value changes and $1 billion due to positive currency fluctuations more than offset by dispositions and transfers of $3.3 billion.
Included in the $90.4 billion in AUM at the end of the third quarter of 2012 was $22.2 billion of listed securities.
This represents an increase of $800 million from the second quarter of 2012 which resulted primarily from value appreciation in this portfolio.
During the third quarter of 2012 we raised new equity capital of approximately $1.5 billion in the direct real estate business and had approximately $3.5 billion of equity capital to deploy at the end of the quarter.
Our core investments in this business at the end of the quarter totaled $216.8 million.
Our Global Investment Management EBITDA reconciliation detail is shown on slide 15.
In the third quarter of 2012 we incurred $14.2 million of expenses related to ING REIM acquisitions primarily for retention severance facilities and information technology.
As of September 30 2012 the company maintained a cumulative accrual of carried interest compensation expense of approximately $42 million which pertains to anticipated future carried interest revenue.
This business operated at a pro forma normalized EBITDA margin of 34% for the third quarter of 2012.
Slide 16 shows our liquidity position at September 30 2012 as well as our amortization and debt maturity schedule for all outstanding debt.
The latter is virtually unchanged from the second quarter of 2012.
With considerable liquidity and cash flow we remain very comfortable with our debt maturity schedule and the flexibility it provides.
Please turn to slide 17.
Excluding cash within consolidated funds and other entities not available for company use and excluding our non-recourse real estate loans and our mortgage brokerage warehouse facilities our total net debt at the end of the third quarter of 2012 was approximately $1.8 billion while up by $117 million from year end 2011 net debt is down by almost $110 million from the second quarter of 2012 in line with seasonal patterns.
Consistent with historical trends our net debt is expected to decrease further in the fourth quarter of 2012.
At the end of the third quarter of 2012 our weighted average interest rate was approximately 5.6% similar to the end of the second quarter of 2012 when including interest rate swaps.
Our leverage ratio on a covenant basis now stands at 1.74 times at the end of the third quarter of 2012 on a trailing 12-month basis.
Our total company net debt to trailing 12-month normalized EBITDA stood at 2.1 times.
I will now turn the call back over to Brett.
Thanks Gil.
And please turn to slide 18.
We believe that the commercial real estate recovery is continuing despite the soft patch particularly in the U.S.
in the third quarter of 2012.
If nothing else the third quarter is a reminder that variable market conditions will be the norm until global economic growth and job creation shift in the higher gear.
In the interim we expect outsourcing to continue with solid consistent growth leasing to remain relatively subdued reflecting slower global economic and employment growth trends.
Investments sales activity vary widely depending on local and regional market dynamics and investor sentiments which as we have seen can change quickly.
Investment Management comparisons will benefit less from the ING REIM businesses in Q4 relatively to the first nine months of 2012 and full-year 2012 normalized EBITDA margins to improve.
We expect conditions in Europe to remain soft until the sovereign debt challenges in Southern Europe are dealt with decisively and in Asia until more steady economic growth returns.
In the U.S.
the two big uncertainties namely the presidential election and the fiscal cliff will be resolved one way or another shortly.
This resolution will be in greater certainty to the market.
Meanwhile underlined markets fundamentals continue to improve incrementally.
Our business pipelines are healthy and our people around the world are energized to help our clients navigate the choppy environment.
CBRE remains well positioned for this market climate because of the strength the geographic scope and the diversity of our platform.
Our strong financial position and the quality of our brand and people which assure clients they are also receiving the best advice.
In light of the operating performance in the third quarter and our outlook for the fourth quarter we now expect full-year 2012 adjusted earning per share to be in the range of $1.15 to $1.20.
Notwithstanding current economy conditions CBRE remains strongly position to thrive in a month and years ahead.
To hear more about our long-term strategy I hope you’ll be able to attend our Business Review Day this year.
Bob Sulentic will be hosting event which will take place in the morning of Thursday December 6th at our New York City office at 200 Park.
With that operator we’ll now take questions.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll go to the line of Will Marks with JMP Securities.
Yeah.
Good afternoon.
First of all Brett maybe this is the last we’re going to hear from you so best of luck to you.
Thanks Will.
Second I want to ask you about maybe for Gil balance sheet strategy any plans to do anything other than that has there any acquisitions of late even if they are small if you can talk about them? Before Gil answer that question Will let me just say a few words about what has transpired on the East Coast these past two days.
We want to convey our thoughts and prayers for everyone affected by Hurricane Sandy.
I also want to thank our thousands of employees who have already rallied to assist our many clients impacted by the disaster.
I witness our response to the main disaster is both man-made and natural over the years.
And I can tell you that no one responds with more enthusiasm and energy on behalf of their clients than our folks across the field.
So I really told them thank you for all your doing.
And Gil you can now hit Will’s question.
Okay.
Hi Will thank you.
Thanks Brett.
Will what I would say is generally speaking debt pay down is always a priority of ours and frankly we said at the moment our net debt balance is very good.
We’ve got that cash of $700 million $450 million available -- would be available in the U.S.
around $250 million plus overseas.
And we’re always anticipating what our options are with that cash.
The one thing that I can say definitively and that I think I’ve said before is we do have a high-yield bonds coming due in June of next year the 11.625.
At least there is a call on them.
And whether we refinance those or partially finance those and partially use cash is yet to be determined but you can certainly think about that in terms of an interest expense reduction certainly for the back half of next year and the full year of 2013 if current interest rates and the current interest rate environment remains low.
So there is no specific M&amp;A.
There is no specific opportunities for cash that you wouldn’t normally think of we’ve obviously got our core investment program in the principle businesses.
We’ve got capital expenditures the routine stuff that you would -- that you are very very familiar with nothing specific except that debt item that I just mentioned.
Great.
And then on acquisitions have you been looking at deals any thing transpired? We don’t have anything specific Will.
Thanks.
On some specific segments leasing in America is down 2%.
We heard from the competitors the industry and volumes was down about 14%.
Did you see similar figures in your own research meaning some decent market share gains despite the tough environment? Well.
Let me take a stand on that.
Let me ask Bob to speak as well.
First thing I want to caution you Will I think you already know this is -- it is dangerous to extrapolate too much from a single quarter.
You may recall last year we had a soft quarter in leasing in the end of the day at the end of the year it end up meaning nothing.
We do think that we picked up some share gain.
We clearly picked up some share.
I’ll let Bob talk a bit more specifically about our share gains.
Bob.
Yeah.
Well I think you hit it Brett two things we don’t want to take any one quarter too seriously.
And secondly we were happy that we picked up some share in the market place both domestically in the U.S.
and around the world we think.
So that’s encouraging to us.
And the other thing I had mentioned as it relates to our brokerage business broadly but our leasing business specifically we’ve been very focused in the last couple of years on upgrading our team.
We have a program called move-up move-out.
We’ve been doing a decent amount of hiring to upgrade our team.
We’re shifting our focus Will now a little bit to actually growth in headcount.
And I can tell you that year-to-date this year we’ve made more hires in the U.S.
in brokerage for instance than we did in all of last year.
So yeah we’ve made some market share gains in a period where the market wasn’t particularly good.
And our focus was more on upgrading rather than growing the headcount.
But we’re actually going to go -- we’re moving in both directions continuing to upgrade the staff and growing headcount going forward.
Okay.
Thank you.
That’s very helpful.
I just had one final question on outsourcing.
I don’t believe that you restated your comment about the size of the industry but I assume nothing has changed on the industry size not that it would but your ability to kind of chase that? No.
Nothing has change.
We believe and we continue to believe that we’re advantaged over any other firm in the industry in this particular space.
And I think Will you would agree that our numbers in that space the last three or four years certainly are evidence of that.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thanks a lot.
(Operator Instructions) Next we’ll go to the line of David Ridley-Lane with Merrill Lynch.
Yeah.
Just a couple of numbers questions.
Could you breakout the cost containment between cost of services and SG&amp;A kind of give a rough split? Yeah.
It’s about 50-50 David.
About 50-50.
Half and half yeah.
And you said $10 million in annualize payback from these actions beginning in the first quarter of ‘13? There will be $10 million of savings yeah.
I just would caution that whether there is a bigger discussion around whether or not that would go forward to the bottom line or would offset other items including depending on how revenues looks next year in investment and so forth.
So yeah in it of itself it will produce $10 million of savings.
Okay.
And the tax rate that you’re now guiding to implies that the fourth quarter will be under 30%.
Is that what you’re thinking? No.
And it wouldn’t be.
But it will be lower than it’s been it wouldn’t be under 30%.
No we can go over it in more detail by quarter offline if you’re like but 35 is a full year rate and that you should be able to sell for the quarter.
Okay.
Okay.
And would you expect a -- the tax rate to be sustainable under 2013? I’m not ready to comment on 2013.
I think we’ll differ commenting on that to the year-end call the February call where we’ll give our guidance and we’ll incorporate call for it the tax rate and other variables into guidance at that time.
What I can’t say is and what I did say is we all -- we continue to focus on this aspect of our business we started to talk about in the few quarters ago.
You’re starting to see the beginnings of all the benefits of our work in this area.
And there will be benefit next year but in terms of how much I’m not ready to talk about that quite yet David.
Sure.
And then may -- one big picture question.
In terms of the trends of EMEA did they steadily decelerate through the quarter and October was worse than the third quarter or was -- what was going in intra-quarter and early fourth quarter trends there? Thank you.
Yeah.
And this is Brett.
I’ll take a stab and again I’ll have Bob give us some more color on this.
First thing I would say is that EMEA has been a soft story for a lot longer than the third quarter.
Third quarter was just another chapter and what seems to be a fairly long book now on difficult market conditions.
I will say and we referenced in our comments that that being said EMEA as well as our other global businesses feels pretty good about their fourth quarter and the pipelines that they have.
But nonetheless as we said on the call until we see -- really I think this way until there is confidence in the Europe across continental Europe I think EMEA is going to be feelings from pain.
Bob do you want to add some color to that? Yeah.
Well first of all I agree with all that.
As we look at the third quarter in EMEA we didn’t differentiate one-time period within the quarter versus another as being a driver in the outcome.
It was all a pretty rough time.
What was more important from us is to makeup of our business the geographic makeup of our business.
We have a particularly large business in France which had a very good year last year and has suffered a big time this year as a marketplace.
In addition to that it just so happens France has also had very tough compare on FX as you know and foreign exchange.
So the combination of the size of our business the decline of that business in that marketplace in France the FX circumstance with the euro has made for a very tough quarter in the third quarter in Europe.
And it was more about that from our perspective than it was about any one particular part of the quarter all of which was pretty rough.
I will say the business in the U.K.
which is our biggest business over there.
I had a much more solid quarter than we did on the continent or in France.
Was that it from Mr.
Lane? Yeah.
And at this time there is no more in queue with the questions.
Great.
Well thanks everyone for you time on the call.
We’ll look forward to speaking to you again at the end of the fourth quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the CBRE Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I'll now turn the conference over to Nick Kormeluk Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to CBRE's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
About an hour ago we issued a press release announcing our Q4 financial results.
This release is available on the homepage of our website at cbre.com.
This conference call is being webcast and is available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Also available is a presentation slide deck which you can use to follow along with our prepared remarks.
An archived audio of the webcast and a PDF version of the slide presentation will be posted to the website later today and a transcript of our call will be posted tomorrow.
Please turn to the slide labeled Forward-Looking Statements.
This presentation contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements regarding our future growth momentum operations financial performance and business outlook.
These statements should be considered as estimates only and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Except to the extent required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forward-looking statements you may hear today.
Please refer to our fourth quarter earnings report filed on Form 8-K our current annual report on Form 10-K and our current quarterly report on Form 10-Q in particular any discussion of risk factors or forward-looking statements which are filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's website sec.gov for a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any estimates you may hear today.
We may make certain statements during the course of this presentation which include references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations.
As required by these regulations we have provided reconciliations of these measures to what we believe are the most directly comparable GAAP measures which are attached hereto within the appendix.
Participating with me today are Bob Sulentic our President and Chief Executive Officer; Gil Borok our Chief Financial Officer; and Bill Concannon the Chief Executive Officer of our Global Corporate Services business.
I'll now turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Nick and please turn to Slide 4.
CBRE's performance rebounded strongly in the final quarter of 2012.
Following a sluggish Q3 activity improved in virtually all business lines particularly our capital markets businesses.
All 3 global operating regions delivered solid top line growth with especially strong results in the Americas.
The positive turn in performance reflects improved market sentiment which has fluctuated throughout the current recovery as well as CBRE's distinct advantages as the global market leader.
Revenue for the year set a new milestone at $6.5 billion and both earnings and normalized EBITDA exhibited strong growth.
Our full year normalized EBITDA margin of 14.1% was the highest since 2007 and increased 50 basis points over 2011.
These achievements in a year of economic and market uncertainty are a testament to the strength and diversity that comes from our geographic footprint and broad product offering our brand and our people's talents for collaborating to create value for our clients.
Please turn to Slide 5.
Global business line highlights for the quarter include: a 22% increase in global property sales revenue as we completed single-asset and portfolio sales valued at more than $1 billion in several markets including Berlin and Frankfurt Moscow New York Seattle and Silicon Valley.
Sales activity was especially strong in the Americas rising 32%.
Despite Europe's weak economic growth and continued financial stress property sales in EMEA rose 13% aided by robust performance in the United Kingdom.
Commercial mortgage brokerage revenue improved 38% fueled by continued strong U.S.
loan origination activity.
In a generally soft market leasing revenue grew 5% led by the Americas and Asia Pacific.
Outsourcing continued its strong growth.
Overall revenue rose 13% as all 3 global regions posted double-digit increases.
As you will hear from Bill Concannon shortly we signed a record number of new Global Corporate Services contracts and aggressively expanded our scope of services for existing clients in 2012.
Investment Management revenue excluding discontinued operations and normalized EBITDA grew 18% and 48% respectively as a result of higher incentive fees as well as increased asset management fees which benefited from a full quarter of ING REIM Europe contributions.
As the market enters its fourth year of slow recovery we expect conditions to continue to improve gradually tracking the performance of the global economy.
While we are encouraged by positive underlying trends in the U.S.
and China and the easing of credit market tensions in Europe the pace of recovery remains subpar and investors and occupiers alike are still managing their businesses cautiously.
As you would expect we continue to diligently manage our own day-to-day expense base while making strategic investments in our people and platform that we believe will enhance our client services and position us for long-term profitable growth.
Some of the most notable transactions we completed during or immediately following the quarter are shown here on Slide 6.
As is our typical process I will not go through them individually but we have included them for your review.
Starting this quarter we will be having one of our senior executives join the call to give you a deeper dive into their business.
This is something we've done from time-to-time in the past and will now make a regular feature of our calls.
Our goal is twofold: One to provide you with more insight into our key lines of business; and two to give you an opportunity to ask these executives questions.
Bill Concannon CEO of Global Corporate Services our occupier outsourcing business will join us today.
We've decided to begin with Global Corporate Services because it is a complex business that cuts across most of our geographies and a number of our service lines.
Global Corporate Services is also a large business with annual revenues of about $1.5 billion.
It has been growing at a rate in the mid-teens for the past few years and it services many of our largest clients.
And we see significant growth opportunities ahead because the outsourcing concept for real estate occupiers is still relatively young and we are extremely well positioned to benefit from its growth.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill who will describe the business and the opportunities in more detail.
Thanks Bob and please turn to Slide 7.
Global Corporate Services is CBRE's occupier outsourcing business.
We provide these occupiers with tailored real estate solutions.
Our clients include corporations ranging from the biggest Fortune 500 companies to growing mid-cap enterprises health care providers public sector institutions and others.
We provide 4 core services for these occupier clients: portfolio and transaction services facilities management project management and strategic consulting.
On our income statement the variable portion of portfolio and transaction services rolls into our leasing and property sales revenue lines while project management and facilities management even the reimbursed portion of portfolio and transaction services rolls into Property &amp; Facilities Management revenue.
Strategic consulting is a small contributor to all 3 revenue lines.
We have more than 300 Global Corporate Services clients all of them served under contracts of at least 1 year and most for multiple years.
We also enjoy a very high renewal rate with these clients.
These clients' contracts range from integrated full-service global clients to a contract where we provide a single service for a period of 1 year or more such as managing a complex construction project.
We have a very strong leadership team and more than 13 000 employees in Global Corporate Services many of them working on-site with our clients as an integral part of their real estate team.
As Bob indicated our business has been growing strongly and 2012 was our best year ever for total contracts signed.
We set new records for wins expansions and renewals.
We continue to sign new contracts at an impressive clip in the fourth quarter.
Most notably we completed the most contract expansions ever both in a single quarter and full year reflecting our sharp focus on broadening our scope of services for existing clients.
Opportunities in newer relatively untapped market sectors are also gaining momentum.
In 2012 we experienced solid growth in the health care and government sectors both of which are looking for innovative solutions to cost pressures.
We also continue to see opportunities outside of the U.S.
where outsourcing by real estate occupiers is typically in the very early stages as well as for global mandates.
Please turn to Slide 8.
Macro trends remain favorable for our Global Corporate Services business and should help us to drive future growth.
The size of Global Corporate Services' potential market for outsourcing by real estate occupiers has been estimated at more than $50 billion by McKinsey.
They estimate market penetration to be at $10 billion leaving significant headroom for growth.
New occupier markets and sectors embracing real estate outsourcing continue to emerge.
As mentioned earlier one of the most exciting is health care.
Hospital bed managed by CBRE have increased 40% in the past 2 years to more than 9 800 as health care providers have been driving hard-to-find efficiencies.
We believe this trend will only intensify in the years ahead as the federal Affordable Care Act takes full effect.
Changes in corporate management structures also bode well for us.
Despite the steady growth we've seen over the past several years the fact is that many large companies still manage their real estate decision-making on a decentralized basis.
As the pace of centralization picks up it opens up more opportunities for third-party real estate service providers to serve more of their global portfolios and CBRE is one of a handful of firms well positioned for these opportunities.
Finally supply chain optimization and the rise of strategic sourcing creates significant opportunities for us.
In our Facilities Management business we manage more than $20 billion in total vendors spend for clients.
We are highly focused on helping them find ways to reduce their cost and add value which can result in a meaningful upside to us in the form of incentive fees tied to performance goals.
Our Global Corporate Services business enters 2013 with strong momentum and a large pipeline of opportunities both with existing and new clients.
And we continue to be very excited about our future prospects.
I will now turn the call over to Gil who will discuss CBRE's fourth quarter performance.
Thank you Bill.
Please advance to Slide 9.
Total revenue was approximately $2 billion for the fourth quarter of 2012 up 14% from last year.
This increase was driven by growth in virtually all businesses and service lines.
Normalized EBITDA was $351.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 resulting in a normalized EBITDA margin of 17.5%.
This margin is slightly lower than last year's fourth quarter which benefited significantly from more sizable Development Services gains on project sales.
Cost of services decreased to 56.4% of total revenue in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus 57.2% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Excluding $20 million of cost containment expenses in the fourth quarter of 2011 cost of services was 56.1% of revenue.
Fourth quarter 2012 operating expenses were 29.8% of total revenue versus 34.2% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Excluding $45 million of integration and other costs related to the ING REIM acquisition and $11.1 million of cost containment expenses fourth quarter 2011 operating expenses were 31% of revenue.
Included in the fourth quarter 2012 operating expenses was $25 million of impairments of assets in our principle businesses involving final resolution of assets acquired before the financial crisis.
Much of this was attributable to non-controlling interests which substantially reduced the impact on normalized EBITDA.
Interest expense was relatively flat in the quarter versus the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our fourth quarter 2012 tax rate was approximately 33%.
This lower tax rate was primarily the result of the benefit from previously unavailable foreign income tax credits that can be utilized to offset U.S.
federal income taxes on foreign sourced earnings in the near future.
We realized this outcome due to our continued focus on the tax efficiency of our legal entity and operating structure.
Our full year 2012 tax rate was approximately 35% and we expect this rate to be similar in 2013.
Depreciation and amortization expense increased $8.9 million in the quarter versus the fourth quarter of 2011 primarily due to depreciation of recent increased IT-related capital expenditures including those incurred in the integration of ING REIM.
Fourth quarter 2012 GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.53 versus $0.25 last year.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.55 in the fourth quarter of 2012 which was up 20% as compared to $0.46 in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Please advance to Slide 10.
We have included the full year comparison of key financial measures for your benefit but we'll not discuss them further except to note that we did achieve 10% revenue growth and a 50-basis-point increase in full year normalized EBITDA margin versus 2011.
EBITDA margin is a metric we watch closely as a proxy for our ability to control costs.
Please turn to Slide 11.
Leasing was our largest service line in the quarter representing 31% of total revenue.
Notwithstanding soft market conditions this business generated 5% growth globally versus the fourth quarter of 2011.
This brought full year 2012 leasing revenues in line with full year 2011 which was not the case at the end of the third quarter.
Property &amp; Facilities Management was our second largest service line in the fourth quarter of 2012 representing 30% of total revenue in the quarter with a strong 13% increase over the fourth quarter of 2011.
As Bill noted this is where much of our Global Corporate Services revenue is concentrated and Global Corporate Services is the most rapidly growing component of this revenue category.
Investment sales growth accelerated by 22% in the fourth quarter of 2012 relative to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Appraisal &amp; Valuation revenue increased 9% in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus the fourth quarter of 2011 led by the Americas and Asia Pacific.
Global Investment Management revenue increased 20% quarter-over-quarter driven by increases in asset management and incentive fees.
Commercial mortgage brokerage revenue grew 38% from the fourth quarter of 2011 driven by continued capital availability investors' appetite for high relative yields and increased competition among lenders.
It should be noted that this is primarily a U.S.-based business where investment activity and sentiment particularly in the multi-family sector remains stronger than in other parts of the world.
Development Services revenue increased 73% to $30.3 million primarily as a result of higher incentive fees.
Recurring revenue comprised approximately 55% of total revenue for the fourth quarter of 2012.
This includes revenue from leasing commissions from existing clients Property &amp; Facilities Management fees fees for assets under management and loan servicing fees which are all largely recurring.
Please turn to Slide 12.
We have included this slide for your convenience and it shows our service line revenue comparisons on a full year basis.
Please turn to Slide 13 which demonstrates steadily decreasing vacancy rates and positive absorption in all 3 market sectors depicted along with forecasted improvement over the next 24 months.
Average national office cap rates came down 20 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus the third quarter of 2012 and 40 basis points versus the fourth quarter of 2011 primarily due to continued strength in core property sales.
Please turn to Slide 14.
The Americas region showed very strong overall revenue growth up 16% in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus the fourth quarter of 2011 driven by contributions from all major service lines.
Investment sales revenue in the Americas jumped by 32% in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus the fourth quarter of 2011 driven by the attractive yield still available from core market activity and by investors hurrying to close transactions before year end an annual ritual that was magnified in 2012 by the potential for higher capital gains tax rates in the U.S.
CBRE once again held the #1 position in the U.S.
investment market for the fourth quarter and the full year 2012 according to Real Capital Analytics.
Leasing activity picked up again this quarter posting a 7% revenue increase in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus the fourth quarter of 2011 reflective of continued moderate job growth and market share gains.
Our Americas outsourcing revenue grew by a strong 13% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
It is notable that fourth quarter 2012 revenue growth outpaced full year 2012 growth in all 3 major service lines.
Please turn to Slide 15.
Total EMEA revenue increased 7% in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus the fourth quarter of 2011.
This was an 8% increase in local currency which is indicative of the fact that foreign currency exchange was not nearly as impactful in the fourth quarter of 2012 as it was in the third quarter of 2012.
We are pleased with this result considering the ongoing broad economic weakness across Europe in the fourth quarter.
Year-over-year growth in investment sales revenue rebounded strongly in the fourth quarter of 2012 with a 13% increase.
The strength was driven by the United Kingdom where a combination of stronger general market activity and CBRE's ability to capture more market share led to a revenue increase of 31%; and to a lesser degree higher revenue in Switzerland and Germany.
Leasing revenue was flat in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus the fourth quarter of 2011.
Positive growth in the United Kingdom was offset by weak performance on the continent.
EMEA outsourcing revenue increased a healthy 17% in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus the fourth quarter of 2011.
Please turn to Slide 16.
Our total revenue in Asia Pacific this quarter was up 7% as compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Improved performance in Australia Singapore India and China contributed to the region's overall revenue growth.
Property sales revenues declined 1% in the fourth quarter of 2012 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 driven by China where deal flow was constrained by a lack of product availability.
However leasing revenue in Asia Pacific increased 7% led by Australia China and Singapore.
Demand was generally driven by domestic clients.
Outsourcing revenue improved by 13% in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus the fourth quarter of 2011.
Please turn to Slide 17.
Revenue for the Development Services segment totaled $33.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus $22.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 due to higher incentive fees.
However fourth quarter 2012 normalized EBITDA declined to $35.6 million due to lower gains from project sales versus the prior year quarter.
Such gains do not flow through revenue.
At the end of the fourth quarter 2012 in process development totaled $4.2 billion down $700 million from the end of 2011.
And the pipeline totaled $2.1 billion up $900 million from the end of 2011.
Our equity co-investments at the end of 2012 in the Development Services business totaled $70.5 million and our recourse debt and repayment guarantees stood at $16.1 million.
Please turn to Slide 18.
Fourth quarter 2012 Global Investment Management revenue increased to $124.2 million from $107.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The increase resulted from higher incentive fees as well as higher asset management fees largely stemming from the inclusion of ING REIM Europe for a full quarter.
Please turn to Slide 19.
Assets under management or AUM totaled $92 billion at the end of 2012 up $1.6 billion from the third quarter of 2012.
This was comprised of increases of $1.6 billion from acquisitions $900 million from net asset value changes and $700 million due to positive currency fluctuations partly offset by dispositions and transfers of $1.6 billion.
Included in the $92 billion in AUM at the end of 2012 was $23.6 billion of listed securities.
This represents an increase of $1.4 billion from the third quarter of 2012 which resulted primarily from value appreciation in this portfolio.
During 2012 we raised new equity capital of approximately $3.8 billion in the direct real estate business and had approximately $3.6 billion of equity capital to deploy at the end of the quarter.
Our co-investments in this business at the end of the quarter totaled $211.5 million.
Our Global Investment Management EBITDA reconciliation detail is shown on Slide 20.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 we incurred $5.9 million of expenses related to the ING REIM acquisitions primarily for retention severance and information technology.
As of December 31 2012 the company maintained a cumulative accrual of carried interest compensation expense of approximately $48 million an increase of $6 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 which pertains to anticipated future carried interest revenue and is illustrative of portfolio value increases.
This business operated with a solid pro forma normalized EBITDA margin of 24% for the fourth quarter of 2012 and 30% for the full year of 2012.
Slide 21 shows our liquidity position at December 31 2012 as well as our amortization and debt maturity schedule for all outstanding corporate debt.
The latter is virtually unchanged from last quarter.
With considerable liquidity and cash flow we remain very comfortable with our debt maturity schedule and the flexibility it provides including as it relates to our $450 million senior subordinated notes that are callable in June 2013.
Please turn to Slide 22.
Excluding cash within consolidated funds and other entities not available for company use and excluding our non-recourse real estate loans and our mortgage brokerage warehouse facilities our total net debt at the end of 2012 was approximately $1.5 billion.
This represents a decrease of $126.2 million from the fourth quarter of 2011.
At the end of the fourth quarter 2012 our weighted average interest rate was approximately 5.6% unchanged from the end of the third quarter of 2012 when including interest rate swaps.
Our leverage ratio on a covenant basis now stands at 1.4x at the end of 2012 on a trailing 12-month basis.
Our total company net debt to trailing 12-month normalized EBITDA stood at 1.7x.
I will now turn the call back over to Bob.
Thanks Gil.
Please turn to Slide 23.
Our performance in the fourth quarter and strong full year growth at a time of continuing economic challenges reflects the many strengths that have led CBRE to the market-leading position in our industry including our deep pool of professional talent; our deep diverse and loyal client base; our well-recognized and highly regarded brand; our unmatched geographic and service line footprint; and our capacity and willingness to make strategic investments that enhance our services to clients and position us for continued growth.
With market conditions continuing to improve slowly and systemic threats to the global economy lessening our view of 2013 is on the positive side of the lever -- ledger.
It is also an opportune time to modestly increase investment in our platform.
We expect to partly offset any above-normal platform investments through continued rigorous management of our day-to-day cost structure lower interest expense and tax savings.
Accordingly we expect the impact of these investments on the bottom line to be muted.
These investments will enable our people to work more efficiently and collaborate more effectively and will help us sustain our growth for years to come.
For 2013 we expect global revenue to increase at a mid- to high-single-digit rate consistent with our long-term historical performance.
We anticipate this growth to once again be paced by the Americas with Asia Pacific rebounding and EMEA still being challenged by a weak macro environment.
Among our global business lines we expect moderate leasing growth to be closely tied to the performance of the global economy.
We anticipate that property sales will increase in line with improving fundamentals and outsourcing will continue to grow in the low double digits.
In light of these expectations and factoring in anticipated higher depreciation and amortization expense we anticipate generating full year 2013 EPS in the range of $1.40 to $1.45.
This implies a solid growth rate of 15% to 20% as compared to 2012 while once again producing the industry-leading normalized EBITDA margins you have come to expect of us.
With that operator we'll open the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Anthony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on leasing.
It seemed like the evidence was that leasing volumes in general were down in the fourth quarter but both you guys and JLL ended up doing pretty well.
And it seemed like you picked up share.
So I guess a is that really the case? And then b where do you think that share came from? And how sustainable do you see that as being? Anthony this is Bob.
The -- we do believe we picked up share.
We do believe JLL probably picked up share as well.
And where it came from probably is our smaller competitors.
Whether or not it's sustainable depends on whether or not we can continue to do the kind of job we're doing on behalf of our clients.
We're going to certainly try to do that.
We're investing aggressively in the business to make sure we do that.
We're supporting our professionals.
We think we have the industry-leading professionals in that area.
So we expect that we'll be able to continue the trend of growing our leasing business.
I can tell you it's certainly a big focus here and we have the right people to get that done.
Research Division</strong> And on the leasing side as you look into 2013 one thing we hear often times is in the office category tenants increasingly pushing to cut costs push more people into a given amount of space and so forth.
Do you see that as being -- a do you see it out there? And b is that something you think is cyclical with just still a fairly tough macro backdrop? Or do you think that's a longer-term headwind we should watch for that could keep some lid on leasing? Well it's definitely cyclical.
When companies are uncertain or companies feel like they're under pressure they control costs more aggressively.
And one of the costs they focus on is their leases.
But in addition to that there is no doubt that things are changing.
What makes the notion of alternative workspace real is really 2 things: Number one it's the notion of a more paperless world.
And number two it's the notion of connectivity and wirelessness on the technology side.
And all of that stuff is happening.
And so what you're seeing is people that are very mobile with their office space and coming up with alternative designs for office space that allow them to move around share space so on and so forth.
So that's a very real trend.
We see it with a lot of clients.
We're doing it in our own spaces around the world.
And by the way I think the younger generation of workers coming in is pushing all of us in that direction.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of other things as it relates to guidance.
Can you comment at all on just things like backlog of development gains that may exist that we may see a pickup in say 2013 that might be in the numbers? And along the same lines in Investment Management it seems like you guys have been booking some carried interest accruals on the expense side.
But refresh my memory if you have booked anything on the revenue side or if those start to come in 2013 do they drop right to the bottom line? Anthony it's Gil.
We have not booked any carried interest revenue in 2012 and our guidance would include any anticipated carried interest revenue that might come in '13.
It will obviously come in the future.
You see an accrued balance of $48 million of carried interest expense.
So you can assume that carried interest revenue more or less double that will come in in the future.
But I'm not going to comment as to which year.
Research Division</strong> And similar on the development backlog gains? Well Anthony we're bringing on a good number of new projects.
Obviously you've observed as we all have that business over the years and you know that the life cycle associated with harvesting those projects is fairly long.
So I think what you're going to see in 2013 from us is likely less development profitability.
Because what we've done is we've burned off the inventory of projects that we kind of carried for a long time through the downturn.
And now we're reloading and the gestation period of those projects suggests it'll be 2 or 3 years before a lot of them harvest.
So I think we're going through now kind of a cyclical bottom and then we'll be coming back out in terms of the profitability generated by that business.
But we do -- to answer your question specifically yes we do see some nice new opportunities and we're particularly encouraged by the fact that if you can find development opportunities and get them started there's less competition now than there has been at many points in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last one.
Any updated thoughts on how you look at your free cash flow as it relates to either dividend or stock buyback just given how the business is strong and your net debt continues to whittle down? Yes Anthony it's Gil.
We look at it and obviously we like it.
We do have the $450 million bonds that are callable in June of '13.
And so we're obviously contemplating our options currently in terms of what we do with those.
It may involve use of some cash maybe all cash.
But at the moment what we've guided to is we know we can refinance those for about half the interest rate that they're currently at.
So that's one alternative that fits into our overall strategy.
The other thing is you've got to remember that even though there is about $1 billion of cash on the books at the moment we're going into our seasonal usage period.
And so in the first quarter and into the second quarter you can anticipate us using between $400 million and $450 million of cash to pay bonuses and we'll do that with cash and not have to draw on our revolver.
So there's a big usage.
The other thing you have to remember is that $300 million of that cash is overseas $700 million give or take is domestic.
And again the overseas cash can be used for bonuses as well.
So there are some uses coming up.
There will be leftover and it'll be part and parcel of our discussions around that $450 million call as to what we do with it at the moment.
Your next question is from Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just from a near-term perspective should we expect much of an air pocket here in the first quarter in the capital markets business given your comments and just kind of the finish to the year around investment sales and mortgage brokerage? Or would you expect typical seasonality and no kind of exaggerated seasonality around it? And is there anything else -- I would imagine you saw it in any kind of pull forward in leasing or outsourcing but I just want to make sure we get kind of the right staging or pacing here from Q4 into Q1? Brandon the -- I want to make sure I understand your question.
So I'll give an answer and if I don't answer the question you asked me tell me.
We really don't think there is any pull forward in leasing or outsourcing.
So that's the easy part of your question.
Whether or not there's an air pocket in the capital markets -- probably a little bit.
There was an awful -- particularly here in the States there was an awful lot of activity in Q4 and particularly in December in response to the tax situation that we're all aware of.
So we think we benefited from that.
We don't think it's going to have an overwhelming or a dominant impact on Q1.
And in fact we think that 2013 is going to be a better year overall than 2012.
But it wouldn't be surprising to see some impact from that.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then going back to the discussion around corporate services.
As you look at the renewals and expansions maybe some color around -- are those typically with more size and/or more services? And is there any difference between let's say EMEA and Americas in terms of what those renewals or expansions may look like? Okay Brandon it's Bill here.
Thank you for that question.
I -- one of the things I'd say is the -- one of -- the #1 thing I like about our 2012 performance is that the expansions that we booked 56 in total show us that we've got good client satisfaction show us that our people are focused that shows us their clients trust us and therefore they're willing to work with us in more places.
And in fact when you look at the 2 cases highlighted on the slide Microsoft and State Street they were U.S.
multinationals that expanded with us in EMEA and Asia Pacific.
So the customer doesn't have to originate in EMEA and/or Asia Pacific.
We can get a lot of expansion on a year-over-year basis with U.S.
multinationals which is a key part of our growth metric.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Gil maybe any color on what we should expect CapEx and additional co-investments to look like in '13? Yes.
On the CapEx front we're probably looking at something a little north of $150 million consistent with our moderate investment goals.
And on the co-investment front it's a little bit difficult to say because of -- what the net will be.
But as Bob said it is a time in the cycle where we think there's a good opportunity and so that's going to be somewhere between $50 million and $100 million.
But it's hard to give a tight range on it Brandon.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final question for you maybe Gil or even for Bob.
As we think about the impact of headcount additions or technology spending should we see that make a difference? Or should that show up more in the Americas than it should in Asia Pac and EMEA i.e.
should it not impact margin trajectories in the international markets? Or is it going to be spread evenly across the P&amp;Ls? We're making those investments around the world Brandon.
But importantly I want to stress one thing as we said in our comments.
The -- we're expecting our margin to continue to expand.
So we're making these investments thoughtfully and cautiously and they're all about enabling our professionals technology marketing other things that are going to enable our professionals.
And we're doing it around the world.
I mean we do the same products everywhere in the world.
We do these processes that are very similar everywhere in the world.
And increasingly with those businesses we're serving the same customers everywhere in the world.
Bill I don't know if you'd have an add-on to that.
No.
I think that's it.
That captures it.
We'll go next to Will Marks with JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> I want to first ask -- I guess maybe some questions of Gil on the interest expense line.
You gave -- you said it -- included I guess is some sort of benefit from refinancing in your guidance.
Is that -- just to confirm that's correct? That's correct.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- I mean what kind of run rate should we see on that line during the year? I guess I realize it will change in the second half of the year but maybe to start the year? Yes it'll run -- with the assumptions I've given you Will it'll run about $40 million a quarter in the first half dropping down to between $33 million and $35 million in the second half per quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess same question.
I was a little surprised at the D&amp;A level in the fourth quarter.
You made some comments and I apologize if I missed what I'm asking and that is the kind of guidance along those lines for 2013.
Yes.
Two things that drive it: First of all depreciation is going up along with capital expenditure increases.
In the down we didn't invest and since then we have been investing incrementally.
Some of those projects that were held as "construction in progress" have come online and are now starting to be depreciated.
So that's what's caused an uptick in depreciation or the depreciation part of it certainly in the second half of the year.
And then the other component is amortization and that has to do with our mortgage brokerage business where we -- I think you know we capitalize upfront the servicing rights which creates income upfront on the servicing rights we get when we originate loans.
And that has to amortize into the P&amp;L over time.
So in a growing portfolio you're getting gains and amortization.
The amortization is less than the gains but amortization goes through the amortization line.
So a combination of those 2 factors is what's pushing it up.
Before you ask it for next year the run rate per quarter is going to be around $38 million to $40 million in [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it will drop substantially from that fourth quarter level.
And I realize that things are seasonal too.
But...
If you're looking at the P&amp;L and the income statement remember that's not normalized.
I'm giving you a normalized number.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Sorry.
Yes fair enough.
Okay.
And then just moving on the -- typically there is a -- the net debt balance does go up in the first quarter.
I'd expect -- or I should ask should we expect the same in 2013 due to bonus? Yes.
Exactly.
So yes on a net debt basis that's true.
Yes.
We'll go next to David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
I wanted to ask a question about the -- on the investment sales side particularly in the Americas.
I was wondering if you were seeing investor interest sort of expand from Tier 1 Class A series event trading [ph] quite frequently over the last year or 2? And does your [ph] Tier 2 and Tier 3 fit in [ph]? David we're seeing that start to happen slowly and -- both in terms of moving out a little with the assets and moving out a little with the markets that investors are looking at.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So -- and that's -- sort of clear is that -- when you say moving out is that the most that it's moved out this -- through this recovery? Or are we kind of getting back to sort of second quarter '12 before the eurozone crisis kind of hit us? I would say we would expect it to be more than it's been prior to this in the recovery in 2013.
That's our expectation.
And we're -- and again we started to see that in the fourth quarter for sure.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then if the EMEA revenue was flattish in 2013 would you expect the margins to be up or down in that region i.e.
have you made enough cost cuts to kind of keep things flat? Or will we still see some deleveraging there? We made some cost cuts and we're also going to make some incremental investments.
It's hard to give you an exact answer at this point because if we didn't see things -- if we didn't start to be more optimistic which I think we're going to be by the middle of the year about EMEA then we'd put a governor on the magnitude of the incremental investments obviously.
But my guess is those 2 things will kind of offset each other over the course of the year in EMEA.
And we'll respond to the market in the second of the year as it unfolds.
You have a question from Todd Lukasik with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just hoping to revisit some of the numbers you had given for the global corporate outsourcing business.
I guess you referenced the McKinsey report $50 billion potential market.
If I understood correctly current industry penetration of about $10 billion of which you guys are about 15% or $1.5 billion? Yes.
That's correct Todd.
I think that -- by the way I think we think that's a conservative estimate by McKinsey.
It's only in the service lines where we operate today.
And so it doesn't include in vertical markets like higher education where we're not -- they're not really outsourcing yet today.
But it does not include soft service providers.
So it wouldn't include janitorial or security in many of the vendor spend categories that we manage as a facilities manager.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got you.
And then I was wondering if you could just comment a little bit on competition in that business.
I'd assume that on a local or regional basis there are a lot more competitors that can put in bids than could credibly for some of the global deals that you guys are bidding for.
And I was particularly wondering if you guys have any information you could share in terms of percentage of business that you win what you're bidding for and what percentage that you tend to win? Well -- I mean we have lots of metrics that we track in the business Todd.
One of them is obviously win rate and we've got a very high win rate on the business that we choose to go after.
I will tell you that this year -- I can't remember a year where the pace picked up where we set records for the number of new contracts one and the number of new RFPs.
RFPs were up almost 40% on a year-over-year basis.
And so when these customers come out they're not just vetting for cost anymore.
They're vetting for -- in a very sophisticated RFP process with many times procurement and/or strategic sourcing at the table with these Fortune 500 companies.
They're looking for profits improvement they're looking for the access to talent that they can bring into their own company in terms of running the real estate running the facilities better compliance better regulatory reporting.
So this business as it's gotten more sophisticated as the selection process has gotten more difficult it really bodes well for us companies like ours.
And so we very [ph] -- rarely would see a local or regional original player compete effectively on a large global deal or even an Americas-based deal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just one more.
Do you have a sense as to -- or could you share sort of what percentage of that $1.5 billion that you guys are doing today is business with people or corporations on a global scale as opposed to a regional scale? It's growing.
80% of our business is in the Americas today.
So 20% is outside the Americas but it is growing.
In Asia Pacific and Latin America to name 2 geographies we saw a real jump in a year-over-year basis on our RFP count.
And in fact there's a lot of scrutiny in those regions of the world.
We have a follow-up from Anthony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In the mortgage origination business is that -- I mean do you think that's more correlated to say activity in CMBS? Or is it just more tied to general investment sales activity? Like how do we think about where that goes? It's very tied to investment sales activity.
And in our case it's tied to multi-family investment sales activity far more than just CMBS.
We provide mortgage origination for all types of different financings.
So -- or for all types of different capital sources.
So we wouldn't necessarily be driven more by CMBS or something else.
I will tell you we've done a lot of multi-family stuff but we do a good amount of work whether it's office industrial or retail in the mortgage brokerage business.
So I would -- if you want to have a parameter I would look at investment sales in general.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what's -- any guidance as to what the incremental margins are for that business line? It seems they've gotten pretty big and has grown pretty nicely.
I'll just give you this.
It is higher than the overall corporate margin.
It does drive the margin up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just for Bill on -- so is that -- when you think about just sort of the double-digit growth clip that that business is running at should we really think about that on the $1.5 billion as opposed to the entire I think $2.2 billion? Just wanted to understand that other $700 million.
What's in that number again? So there's another component to outsourcing which is the asset services business property management for landlords.
That's the difference.
Research Division</strong> And is that -- should we think about that though as being more flat compared to what you're doing on the outsourcing side? Or...
It's slower growth but still a growing business.
I think they're -- to specifically answer Anthony's question in aggregate the 2 grow north of 10%.
That's correct.
And Bill's business is the faster growing of the 2.
That's right.
So it's in the mid-teens and above.
Yes.
And not all parts of GCS Anthony flow through Property and the Facilities Management line.
All right? So there are revenues that aren't captured in that business that's grown 10% year-over-year.
We also have a follow-up from Will Marks with JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask Bob on -- when you had your Business Review Day in early December you chose not to address guidance.
I'm just curious and I can accept you not addressing my question about addressing but was it an uncertain time? Was this just a decision that you made going forward to not do it during the Business Review Day? It's the latter Will.
We just -- we do it.
We have a specific time we do it with our kind of annual release calendar and we didn't want to address it off cycle in essence.
Our next question will come from David Gold with Sidoti.
LLC</strong> Just a quick one for you.
Can you address a little bit 2 factors that presumably affected the fourth quarter and affect on the first.
One is I know you said you didn't think there was much by way of pull forward.
But basically on the capital gain side domestically how much of an effect do you think that had loosely in the fourth quarter a pick up on capital markets? And then also on the fiscal cliff side or fears on that how much do you think that weighed on leasing? David thanks for that question.
I want to clarify we did say that we thought there was in fact some pull forward due to the tax laws changes.
We didn't quantify it.
But what we do believe is that the capital markets business will be bigger for next year than it was this year.
So that would tell you that we don't believe there was so much pull forward into '12 that '12 got bigger than '13.
If -- does that answer your question? LLC</strong> Yes.
That's helpful.
And I guess part 2 of that one though is to the extent there was pull forward do you think we'll see a bigger effect in the first quarter some slowdown there because maybe some business happened in the fourth versus the first? Well it'll impact the first quarter some.
We don't think it's going to be a dramatic impact.
And by the way I don't think I answered your question about the impact on leasing of the fiscal cliff issue.
I don't think it created any pull forward.
I think what it did was it liberated leaders of businesses to make commitments that they were waiting to make.
So I think we'll see the benefit from that.
We probably saw a little benefit from that in Q4.
I think we'll see the benefit from that from now forward through the rest of this year in all probability.
LLC</strong> So you think there was benefit from that rather than a detriment? I think there was benefit but I don't think it was pull forward benefit.
I think it was just people that had been kind of on the sidelines deciding to start to come in and make some decisions.
And gentlemen we have no one else in queue.
Please go ahead with any closing remarks.
That's all and we'll see you in 90 days to talk about the first quarter.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Then ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the CBRE Quarter 1 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to our host from CBRE Mr.
Nick Kormeluk.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to CBRE's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
About an hour ago we issued a press release announcing our Q1 financial results.
This release is available on the homepage of our website at www.cbre.com.
The conference call is being webcast and is available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Also available is a presentation slide deck which you can use to follow along with our prepared remarks.
An archived audio of the webcast and a PDF version of the slide presentation will be posted to the website later today and a transcript of our call will be posted tomorrow.
Please turn to the slide labeled Forward-Looking Statements.
This presentation contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements regarding our future growth momentum operations financial performance and business outlook.
These statements should be considered as estimates only and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Except to the extent required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forward-looking statements that you may hear today.
Please refer to our first quarter earnings report filed on Form 8-K and our current quarterly report on Form 10-K in particular any discussion of risk factors or forward-looking statements which are filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's website sec.gov for a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any estimates that you may hear today.
We may make certain statements during the course of this presentation which include references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations.
As required by these regulations we have provided reconciliations of these measures to what we believe are the most directly comparable GAAP measures which are attached hereto within the appendix.
Please turn to Slide 3.
Participating with me today are Bob Sulentic our President and Chief Executive Officer; Gil Borok our Chief Financial Officer; and Jack Durburg our Global President of Transaction Services business.
I'll now turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Nick.
And please turn to Slide 4.
CBRE had a good start to 2013 in what is traditionally our seasonally slowest period of the year.
As you have seen from our news release revenue earnings and normalized EBITDA grew solidly despite continued sluggish pace to the global economic recovery and a high degree of investor and occupier caution that persists in many parts of the world.
In this environment CBRE continues to be well served by our broad geographic and product line footprint and the effectiveness of our people at working across these markets and business lines to create value for clients.
Going forward we will also benefit significantly from the series of debt refinancing actions undertaken in March which Gil will describe in detail.
These actions will lower our interest expense and increase our capacity to fund strategic initiatives and platform investments while giving us greater flexibility to navigate market uncertainty.
In the first quarter revenue rose in every one of our global regions and major business lines.
It was particularly gratifying to see strong double-digit revenue growth in the EMEA a notable turnaround from last year's first quarter.
This improvement partly reflects our preeminent position in the U.K.
which continues to attract a disproportionate share of capital due to its safe haven status and our ability to take advantage of modestly better market sentiment and activity on the European continent.
Asia-Pacific also meaningfully improved on last year's first quarter with notable gains in Greater China and Japan while the Americas sustained good growth in all business lines.
Looking at our global business lines capital markets-based businesses again set the pace.
Property sales revenue increased 21% led by rebounds in EMEA and Asia-Pacific.
Commercial Mortgage Brokerage revenue improved 16% fueled by continued strong U.S.
investment activity particularly in the multifamily sector.
Increased investment activity in the U.S.
and Europe contributed to a 12% rise in Appraisal &amp; Valuation revenue.
We also continue to see steady gains in our outsourcing line of business.
Revenue grew in all regions climbing 11% on a global basis.
EMEA's performance was notably strong.
In our Global Corporate Services business which is our outsourcing services offering for occupiers we signed 46 contracts in the quarter including 22 with new clients.
Ongoing sluggish job creation and occupier caution continue to temper leasing revenue performance.
Growth in the EMEA and the Americas was partially offset by decline in activity in Asia-Pacific resulting in a modest improvement on a global basis.
A significant portion of the falloff in Asia-Pacific reflected continued occupier caution throughout the region as well as the Japanese yen's depreciation against the dollar.
Driving the growth of our transaction businesses leasing property sales and mortgage brokerage is a strategic priority for CBRE.
Transactions are the historic foundation of our company and a key pillar of our future.
Together these businesses comprise about half of our total revenue and we see substantial upside potential for them particularly given CBRE's unique position in the global marketplace.
To this end about a year ago we created a new position Global President of Transaction Services and we appointed Jack Durburg to fill this role.
Jack previously ran our U.S.
central region.
He will join us now to describe the transaction businesses in greater detail and discuss our growth plans.
He will also be available for questions.
Jack? Thanks Bob and please turn to Slide 5.
Transaction services consist of 3 core businesses: Leasing representation on behalf of occupiers and investors.
We have 4 100 professionals globally providing the service.
Included among the occupier they serve are the more than 300 clients on a global corporate services business.
Property sales where we have 1 500 dedicated professionals.
In the U.S.
this business primarily consists of representing sellers while in EMEA and Asia-Pacific we represent both buyers and sellers.
Mortgage brokerage where we source debt for investors or sell loans for lenders is almost entirely a U.S.
business where we have more than 100 professionals.
We believe clients are best served through specialization and teamwork so we organize the businesses around property type: Office industrial retail multifamily and hotel as well as geography with collaboration across disciplines and markets in delivering service.
As you can see from the chart we are by far the most active sales and leasing firm with nearly 190 billion of transaction volume in 2012.
Our focus starts with the delivery of consistent high-quality client service around the world.
It is this focus that has led to CBRE's size and strong market position and that continues to be the catalyst for the growth of our transaction services business.
I think it's important to find quality service in the context of our transaction business.
Transaction services entails sophisticated client advisory work.
It is not just selling.
While selling is an important element it is underpinned by deep market knowledge and research comprehensive and often complex analysis of alternatives financial modeling and thoughtful strategies developed by experienced and skilled professionals.
This is all typically coupled with expertise in marketing and negotiations.
In almost all cases today you need collaboration among teams rather than individuals acting alone to deliver these services.
In today's sophisticated marketplace quality transaction services requires the resources and organizational scope to accomplish all of this and to execute at a consistently high level.
CBRE is particularly well-suited to make this happen.
Please turn to Slide 6.
As strong as our market position is globally we believe there is significant headroom for growth across all our geographic regions.
In most local markets we estimate that our brokerage market share across all property types rarely exceeds 10% to 15%.
We take a systematic approach to identify areas with substantial growth opportunities and then actively target resources to capitalize on them.
Our growth plan starts with leadership.
Our management structure pairs dedicated geographic leaders who have responsibility for all business lines within their markets with business line leaders who are subject matter experts within their disciplines.
Together these leaders partner to establish develop and implement strategy.
We have learned that strategy transcends geography.
So our go-to-market strategy is essentially the same across all 3 regions with distinct approaches for our leasing and sales businesses and consists of the following elements.
It all starts with our clients.
We focus closely on our existing clients and surround them with the depth and breadth of service that we believe other firms would find difficult to match.
We nurture and grow these very important relationships through our client care and development program.
Market segmentation and penetration analysis.
We methodically identify areas in each business line across geographies where we have opportunities to grow and then develop action plans targeted at the most promising opportunities.
Proactive business development.
We proactively develop new business both leasing and sales with an approach that uncovers more opportunities across business lines and geographies.
We supplement these efforts with best practice playbooks to ensure consistency of execution around the world.
Managed brokerage.
Our leaders use established sales management principles to ensure that we have the right team on the field for each opportunity.
We do this by custom building teams of professionals with unique mix of skill sets required for each assignment.
This gives us the best chance to win assignments and ultimately ensures that we are providing the very best service to our clients.
Retention and recruiting.
We want to have the best talents across all business lines in every market to ensure excellence in execution.
We accomplish this by focusing time and resources on training and mentoring our existing professionals and providing them with the tools to help ensure that they are realizing their full potential.
We augment our talent base through targeted recruitment of top professionals who share our values and are attracted to our brand and platform.
Lastly we tile this together by driving global connectivity in a culture of collaboration with growing technology commitments.
Ultimately we believe this process provides us with more opportunities and a higher win rate.
At the same time as I described earlier it also ensures that we are delivering the highest quality service to our clients all of which helps drive increased market share.
To cite one high-profile example of our work CBRE is playing a pivotal role at the Hudson Yards Project on Manhattan's far west side.
Earlier this month we acted as agents for the site developers related companies and Oxford Properties Group on 2 large leases: 400 000 square feet for L’Oreal and 115 000 square feet for SAP.
We also represented L’Oreal in its lease and Coach in its purchase of 740 000 square feet at the development site.
These transactions closed in April and are not reflected in our Q1 financial results.
However they are emblematic of our firm's tremendous influence in the marketplace and our clients' recognition of the service quality that is the hallmark of CBRE.
Now I will turn the call over to Gil who will take us through our Q1 performance.
Thank you Jack.
Please advance to Slide 7.
Total revenue was approximately $1.5 billion for the first quarter of 2013 up 10% from last year or 9% excluding discontinued operation.
This increase is at the upper end of our expectations for long-term growth and was generally well balanced among service lines with good growth around the world.
Cost of services increased slightly to 58.4% of total revenue in the first quarter of 2013 versus 58.3% in the first quarter of 2012.
First quarter 2013 operating expenses were 31.8% of total revenue down from 32.6% in the first quarter of 2012.
It should be noted that $10 million of integration and other costs related to the ING REIM acquisition were included in the first quarter of 2012 versus only $1.5 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Excluding integration costs operating expenses were 31.7% of revenue in the first quarter of 2013 very much in line with the first quarter of 2012 despite incremental investment in our operating platform.
Interest expense was relatively flat versus the first quarter of 2012 given that our refinancing activities occurred late in the quarter.
The write-off of the first financing cost related to our prior credit facility and certain financing costs incurred for the new credit facility resulted in an expense of $13.6 million which has been normalized.
In addition $24.8 million of financing costs incurred in connection with the new credit facility were capitalized.
Our first quarter 2013 tax rate was approximately 35% as compared to 42% in the first quarter of 2012.
This lower tax rate was largely the result of higher earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions than in the first quarter of 2012.
Our focus on the tax efficiency of our legal entity and operating structure continues and our full year tax rate should approximate the rate for the first quarter.
Depreciation and amortization expense was essentially unchanged at approximately $46 million.
Additional amounts in the first quarter of 2013 including those related to capital expenditures and to the first quarter of 2012 and to mortgage servicing rights were masked by a similar amount of ING REIM incentive reamortization expense in the first quarter of 2012 which did not recur in the current period.
First quarter of 2013 GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.11 up from $0.08 in last year's first quarter.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share improved to $0.16 in the first quarter of 2013 from $0.14 in the first quarter of 2012.
Normalized EBITDA rose 7% to $161.3 million in the first quarter of 2013 resulting in a normalized EBITDA margin of 10.9%.
The slight narrowing of margins was due to the benefit in last year's first quarter from higher income from asset sales primarily reflected in equity earnings in the Development Services business and better co-investment returns in the Global Investment Management business.
In addition and as expected the current quarter had higher cost associated with increased hiring in the Americas after the first quarter of 2012.
Our combined regional services businesses saw a 40-basis point improvement in normalized EBITDA margin for the first quarter of 2013 versus the first quarter of 2012.
Please turn to Slide 8.
Property &amp; Facilities Management revenue increased 11% for the quarter.
It was once again our largest service line representing 40% of total revenue.
Leasing was our second largest service line comprised of 25% of total revenue for the quarter.
Leasing growth was modest at 3% reflecting continued occupied portion in many parts of the world.
Investment sales grew by 21% in the first quarter of 2013 with notable strength in parts of EMEA and Asia-Pacific as activity recovers from the muted levels seen in the first quarter of 2012.
Growth in Investment Management revenue increased 2% quarter-over-quarter.
Appraisal &amp; Valuation revenue increased 12% for the quarter paced by EMEA and the Americas.
Commercial mortgage brokerage revenue grew 16% year-over-year reflecting continued vibrancy in U.S.
investment markets particularly the multifamily sector where we enjoy an especially strong market position.
Development Services revenue decreased 2% to $12.7 million.
Recurring revenue comprised approximately 64% of total revenue for the first quarter of 2013.
This includes revenue from leasing commissions from existing clients property &amp; facilities management fees fees for assets under management and loan servicing fees which are all largely recurring.
Please turn to Slide 9.
Global Corporate Services or GCS is our outsourcing business that provides services for occupiers including transaction services facilities and project management as well as strategic consulting.
This business continued its consisting strong growth in the first quarter of 2013 with revenue increasing 12% globally and 13% in the Americas versus the first quarter of 2012.
In the first quarter of 2013 GCS signed 22 contracts with new clients including Honeywell in the Americas Alcatel Lucent in Asia-Pacific and the British Council a government agency in the EMEA.
International growth was strong with 2 new accounts 1 expansion and 1 renewal in EMEA and 2 new accounts in Asia-Pacific.
In addition 3 U.S.-based clients committed to expand their service contracts in overseas markets.
We also saw strong growth in the government sector with 4 new accounts including recently the city of Stockton California.
Please turn to Slide 10 which shows steadily decreasing vacancy rates and positive absorption of all 3 market sectors for the quarter along with continued expected recovery over the next 24 months.
Average national cap rates remained relatively stable in the first quarter of 2013 versus both the fourth quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2012.
Year-over-year volumes improved slightly in office and industrial.
Please turn to Slide 11.
The Americas' solid performance in the first quarter of 2013 was broadly based with all major service line showing moderate to strong growth.
Overall revenue rose 10%.
Investments sales revenue increased 9% in the first quarter of 2013.
This quarter we saw particularly good growth in Canada and Latin America while the U.S.
was relatively flat following a very strong fourth quarter 2012.
Despite continued sluggish employment growth leasing revenue rose by 5%.
This performance reflects a slowly recovering market in which occupiers remain conservative about making space commitments and rent growth is modest.
In general Leasing volumes remain weak and we believe our moderate growth suggests increased market share for CBRE.
Our Americas Property &amp; Facilities Management revenue grew by a solid 11% in the first quarter of 2013.
Please turn to Slide 12.
EMEA showed the best growth among our regions in the first quarter of 2013.
Overall revenue growth was strong at 16%.
This reflects both CBRE's premier place in large safe haven markets which positions us well in this environment and a moderate rebound of transaction activity.
However caution remains the operative word for investors and occupiers alike.
Investment activity across Europe has continued to revive in the weak levels of a year ago.
CBRE estimates that market-wide investment sales rose 11% during the first quarter of 2013.
CBRE's investment sales significantly outstripped its pace with revenue up 44% year-over-year.
Growth in Germany and the U.K.
was particularly robust with increases of more than 100% and 30% respectively.
Leasing revenue advanced 6% across the EMEA.
Again Germany exhibited very strong growth reflecting its status as one Europe's key growth engines with meaningful but lesser contributions from Belgium and the U.K.
Property &amp; Facilities Management revenue rose 15% in the EMEA driven by project management fees and was our largest business within the region during the first quarter of 2013.
We believe that we remain well positioned to capture increased business from the continued emergence of real estate outsourcing in Europe.
Please turn to Slide 13.
We reported solid revenue growth of 9% in Asia-Pacific overcoming a generally cautious macro environment throughout much of the region and negative currency effects which constrained growth in dollar terms.
In local currencies total revenue in Asia-Pacific was up 13%.
Investment sales was the big driver of growth in the first quarter of 2013.
Overall revenue from this business line jumped 61% compared with the subdued levels in last year's first quarter.
Strength was evident across much of the region including Australia Greater China Japan and Singapore.
In contrast leasing revenue softened 9%.
Multinationals remain hesitant to make long-term space commitments and demand is primarily being generated by domestic companies.
Greater China saw high leasing revenue which was more than offset by notable decrease in Japan.
However nearly half of the decline in Japan was due to the yen's appreciation against the U.S.
dollar.
Removing currency effects leasing revenue was down 5% across all of Asia-Pacific.
Property &amp; Facilities Management revenue rose by 8% in the first quarter of 2013.
Please turn to Slide 14.
Revenue for Development Services segment including discontinued operations totaled $15.7 million in the first quarter of 2013 versus $14.9 million in the first quarter of 2012.
However normalized EBITDA declined to $7.8 million due to lower income from projects sales primarily reflected in equity earnings in the first quarter of 2013.
Development projects in process totaled $4.3 billion up $100 million from year end 2012 but down $500 million from the first quarter of 2012.
The inventory of pipeline deals totaled about $1.9 billion down $200 million from year end 2012 but up $600 million from the first quarter of 2012.
Our equity co-investments at the end of the first quarter of 2013 in the Development Services business totaled $73.5 million and our recourse debt stood at $15.3 million.
Please turn to Slide 13.
First quarter 2013 global Investment Management revenue increased to $127.3 million from $125.2 million in the first quarter of 2012.
The increase was primarily due to the higher asset management fees in our global real estate securities business.
Global investment management asset under management or AUM totaled $90.7 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2013 a decrease of $1.3 billion from year end 2012.
The decrease for the quarter was primarily driven by foreign currency effects which lowered AUM by $2.1 billion.
The company completed $1.1 billion of acquisitions and takeovers during the quarter and $1.7 billion of dispositions.
AUM increased by $100 million due to improved net asset value from the direct investment portfolio and by $1.3 billion from gains in the real estate securities portfolio.
Included in the $90.7 billion of AUM at the end of the first quarter of 2013 was $24.9 billion of listed securities.
During the first quarter of 2013 we raised new equity capital of approximately $500 million in the direct real estate business and had approximately $3 billion of equity capital to deploy at the end of the quarter.
Our core investments in this business at the end of the quarter totaled $211.6 million.
Our global investment management EBITDA reconciliation detail is shown on Slide 16.
In the first quarter of 2013 we incurred $1.5 million of integration expenses related to the ING REIM acquisitions.
As of March 31 2013 we maintained the cumulative accrual of current interest compensation expense of approximately $44 million which pertains to anticipated future carry interest revenue.
This represents a decrease of $4 million from the fourth quarter of 2012 due to an income tax-related distribution.
This business operated with a solid pro forma normalized EBITDA margin of 32% for the first quarter of 2013.
The decline from the first quarter of 2012 was partly due to lower co-investment returns in the current quarter as well as severance payments.
Slide 17 shows our liquidity position at March 31 2013 as well as our amortization and debt maturities schedule for all outstanding corporate debt.
As you will recall in March 2013 we completed a series of refinancing transactions.
We amended our credit agreement which now provides for $750 million of partly delayed short-term loans and a $1.2 billion revolving credit facility nearly double the borrowing capacity we previously had under the revolver.
We also sold $800 million of new 10-year 5% fixed rate senior unsecured notes.
Here you can see the benefits of these transactions with maturities extending well into the future and very little debt coming due over the next 3 years.
We plan to call the $450 million 11.625% senior subordinated notes due in 2017 in June of this year as provided for in the related debt agreement.
When these actions are complete we will have reduced total corporate debt by about $500 million and on a pro forma basis for 2012 would have reduced annual interest expense by approximately $50 million.
With considerable liquidity and cash flow as well as increased financial flexibility we believe that we are well positioned to make strategic investments that will further our growth plans while we continue to navigate through an uncertain recovery cycle.
Please turn to Slide 18.
Excluding cash within consolidated fund and other entities not available for company use and excluding our non-recourse real estate loans and our mortgage brokerage warehouse facilities our total net debt at the end of the first quarter of 2013 was approximately $1.7 billion.
This represents an increase of $198.6 million from year end.
At the end of the first quarter of 2013 our weighted average interest rate was approximately 6.6%.
This rate should decline to 4.9% once we draw down the additional $300 million of Term Loan A and call the 11.625% senior subordinated notes.
Our leverage ratio on a covenant basis at the end of the first quarter of 2013 stood at 1.75x on a trending 12-month basis.
Our total company net debt to trailing 12-month normalized EBITDA stood at 1.9x.
I will now turn the call back over to Bob for closing remarks.
Thanks Gil.
Please turn to Slide 19.
With 3 months now in the books we continue to view the opportunities ahead of us in 2013 favorably.
While the macro recovery continues to be slower than previous ones our leading presence in key global markets broad high-quality product and service offering and strong flexible capital structure position us well to drive continued top and bottom line growth.
We expect to achieve positive operating leverage while making strategic investments in our people and platform.
These investments are vital to further cementing CBRE's place as the global market leader.
We believe that CBRE remains on course to achieve full year revenue growth in the mid- to high-single digits.
Among our major services business lines we expect investment sales to continue to grow strongly fueled by low interest rates investors continued search for yield and real estate acceptance as an institutional asset class.
We expect outsourcing to sustain steady low double-digit growth as adoption continues to grow around the world.
And we expect leasing activity to pick up as the year unfolds.
Although lower results from our principal businesses in the first quarter as well as planned increases in headcount in the Americas caused margins to narrow slightly versus the year-earlier period we continue to expect margin improvement for the full year.
We anticipate this will be driven by increased contributions in future quarters from our higher-margin transaction services and principal businesses as well as our continued focus on calibrating operating expenses with revenue growth.
In light of this for all of 2013 we continued to expect adjusted earnings per share to improve in the range of 15% to 20% coming in at $1.40 to $1.45 range for the year.
Before we end today's call I want to note that the people of CBRE send our thoughts prayers and best wishes to our clients employees and friends in the Boston area.
The people of that city have shown remarkable resiliency.
CBRE extends its sympathies to the victims of last week's senseless act and we applaud the first responders and everyone in law enforcement who assisted with this terrible situation.
With that operator we'll take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from the line of Anthony Paolone with JPMorgan Research Division</strong> On the margin issue sales leasing and mortgage brokerage were all kind of up year-over-year and those tend to be sort high incremental margin businesses.
So you'd mentioned hiring kind of weighing on things.
Can you talk a little bit about the type of hiring what the timeline is for perhaps the type of hires you made to produce income and just what the impact of that was? Yes we can Anthony.
Thanks.
This is Bob.
We hired people to support our technology platform.
We hired people in the area that supports our brokerage business both of which we had focused on late last year in our comments and thought that it was important to make those investments.
It's notable that additional investments we made in people will play out ratably over the year.
That's not the case for our revenues obviously.
So the impact of these new hires and these incremental cost are more significant in the first quarter given the lower revenue than they will be as the year wears on.
Research Division</strong> But are those folks revenue producers or -- because it sounds like you mentioned a couple of areas of support or is it just the idea that that support will allow the producers to do better? I'm just trying to understand that.
Well we certainly hired new revenue producers.
But the people I'm talking about are not revenue producers.
They're support folks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the balance sheet the financing activity that you guys undertook in March how did that tie to what you'd included in your guidance originally? Yes Anthony it's Gil.
With minimal breakage so to speak it pretty much was considered in the guidance.
So it obviously didn't play out exactly as we planned it but bottom line it is considered in the guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question I had.
You mentioned in some of your comments in the press release about the balance sheet moves and the ability to make strategic and operational investments.
So just curious if you could comment on what the acquisition pipeline may look like or what you're seeing out there on the deal side and/or whether or not the balance sheet activity and strength has gotten any closer to perhaps considering a buyback or some other use of cash like that? Yes Anthony I'll let Gil comment on the buyback.
But in terms of the strategic activity or the M&amp;A activity as is always the case we're in the market for infill acquisitions and we consider that a core competency.
We look for those opportunities in all of our business lines in all of our regions of the world.
We'll do that this year as we always do.
In terms of bigger strategic opportunities those are less frequent.
We believe they will still arise from time to time.
And I think it's worth remembering sometimes people look back and think wow there was a lot of these big strategic deals going on at one point and that isn't the case now.
The reality of it is those big game-changing strategic deals have been coming along about every 5 years.
So it was about 2001 that the Insignia acquisition happened.
About 2006 5 years later the Trammell Crow Company acquisition happened.
2011 late the year before last the ING acquisition happened.
We think those big opportunities will be out there and we continue to look for them.
But on a regular ongoing basis we have our people around the world and across our business lines looking for infill acquisitions.
And we do believe that the balance sheet actions that were taken in the first quarter certainly make it easier to do that.
And then just following on from that Anthony I would say that as I've said many times before we don't have a menu that excludes any use of cash.
Buyback is on the menu.
But at the moment as it has been for some time it's pretty low down.
We would conserve cash and capacity to do the types of things that Bob was talking about whether that be infill or strategic M&amp;A whether that be co-investments in our principal businesses and/or whether that be debt pay down before we would consider doing something on the equity side.
Next question today comes from the line of Brandon Dobell representing William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Turning to the Property Services business for a second.
How should we think about the puts and takes on square footage growth? It hasn't been that significant for several quarters now.
Obviously the revenue growth has been there but the square footage has been kind of stuck in kind of minimal growth range.
Can you get that up to a kind of 5% or 10% number? Or is low single digits the right way to think about it? And then if that is the case this 10% plus growth rate we're seeing how are you guys getting to that? Is it just cross-sell or is it more value-added services or was it pricing? Brandon it's Gil.
Let me just take the square footage question which has been -- first of all when you see the chart there is rounding.
But there has been perhaps less growth than when you look back 4 or 5 years.
And I think the crux of the question was how do you tie that to the revenue growth? Well when we look at the Global Corporate Services business and quote a 12% growth rate globally and 15% in the Americas that includes the entire business which I think you'll recall includes transaction management where we've seen accelerated growth in more recent years.
That obviously doesn't translate into square footage.
We're also seeing good growth in project management and that doesn't translate into square footage.
So it's really facilities management for occupiers and property management for landlords that revenue would have a correlation to square footage.
And then I remind you that asset services is 2/3 of the $3 billion under management and that's growing a lot slower.
So there isn't -- it's not apples-to-apples.
The portion of the business the facilities management portion of the business that is growing faster under GCS is correlating better that subset is correlating better to revenue.
There's additional point there that's worth making Brandon and that is that on the property management or asset services side we've ramped up very significantly over the last couple of years a premier properties initiative.
A lot of the new wins that we've had have been in this premier properties class which tends to be high-end office buildings around the world which tends to generate higher revenues per square foot than some of the things that were in our portfolio historically.
So that's been a very nice shift in product mix that helps on the revenue and profitability side but doesn't show up in the square footage measures.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
Back to the business review day and a little bit on the fourth quarter call you talked about kind of linking more the services or the service lines together in a number of ways just trying to be one-firm face to the client.
Has there been any change in terms of how people are compensated based on that goal of trying to get more I'm going to call it cross-sell to use a loose term.
Has the organization kind of rethought how the compensation models should work or could work as you guys try and integrate things more closely? We've thought about that Brandon and the reality of it is there's so many places with so many clients that you have to connect your people around the world now and across product lines to serve these clients that it would be impossible to come up with a compensation model that are on a rifle-shot basis awarded incremental comp to people who cooperated with each other.
And we explicitly addressed that and decided not to do that.
We talked to our people about it.
So we get at it in 2 ways.
Number one we really aggressively push and preach the notion here that the way you'll be compensated for this is that the whole firm will do better.
We'll serve our clients better.
We'll land more clients.
And in the long run everybody will benefit.
And I think that there's been a lot of buy-in to that notion in our company.
The other thing we do that's much more direct and explicit is among our management team the people that run the business people that do a better job of generating coordination around the company and collaboration are the people that get promoted.
They're the people that get the good assignments and they're the people that become the bigger leaders in the company.
And that's become a very prominent notion within the enterprise.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Gil in terms of capital spending or any kind of moment on the pension or any kind of accrual things that'll change kind of how they give out the free cash flow this year anything to think about out of the ordinary? No Brandon.
I think there's nothing that strikes me as -- that's worth mentioning on that front.
Research Division</strong> And then a final one for me is as we think about headcount additions for the balance of the year should we think about the same kind of pacing in incremental additions that we saw in the first quarter? Should it slow down focus more on revenue producers versus support people? Any kind of color would be great.
Well again Brandon I want to -- this is an important point and I want to stress it because I don't want it to be missed.
The kind of quarterly run rate of these incremental investments we've made in the platform so to speak the nonproducing part of the business that supports the producing part that impact in absolute dollars should be roughly the same and frankly may even go slightly down on a quarter-to-quarter basis against ever-growing revenues.
So the impact you'll see from that will diminish over the course of the year.
And in terms of market-facing hires particularly in our transaction or brokerage businesses we have very aggressive plans there and I'm going to let Jack comment on that because he is quarterbacking that for us globally.
Sure.
Brandon as you know we're always looking to bring new talent into the firm and we do that consistently.
So we are increasing the productivity of our producers and we're bringing in new talent on a regular basis across all 3 regions.
Question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane with Merrill Lynch.
[Operator Instructions] Research Division</strong> Sure.
Just very impressive growth in the EMEA region this quarter.
I'm wondering how sustainable that is and how optimistic are you about investment sales volumes in that region to the full year? Okay I'm going to comment generally and then again I'm going to ask Jack to comment on investment sales because he is closest to our transactional business.
But in general we're expecting a better year this year versus last year in EMEA.
The growth rates that you saw in the first quarter were pretty strong and it's always important to caution 2 things.
Number one the first quarter is a small quarter so relatively small numbers can have big percentage impact.
And we saw some really big percentage impact.
They did a really really nice job in the first quarter in EMEA.
But those kind of growth numbers I don't think you can extrapolate throughout the course of the year.
We'd love to see them and we think our team is going to have a nice year in EMEA but I don't think you can extrapolate those kind of growth numbers across the year because a it's one quarter and b it's a small quarter.
We think it's going to be a better year though than last year.
Jack you might want to comment on the expectations for investment sales.
Sure.
Thanks Bob.
Well said.
We do believe that there's going to be moderate improvement throughout the rest of the year notwithstanding the difficult environment throughout Europe.
There's still a lot of capital cross-border capital chasing safety and core assets.
I think one important point to note around the growth of our -- in our first quarter was the addition of Franc Warwick who made a significant impact and that was a recruitment that we made in 2012 the results of which we're seeing in the first quarter.
So going forward cautious optimism around the sale side.
Right now most of the activity is still core assets in core markets really with a flight to safety.
Hopefully as this market stabilizes and moderately improves we may see then our investors chasing a little bit more yield and moving out of those core markets but we really haven't seen much of that yet.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on the -- I'll take another cut on the Americas investment.
Can you size what Americas EBITDA margin would've been up x the platform investments with this kind of 100 basis points drag or 200 basis points drag or can you kind of bucket the rough size? That's hard for me to do off the cuff.
I wasn't expecting that question.
But I -- the investment on people was in the call it in the -- maybe this will be helpful for you in the $3 million to $5 million range.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then last one for me.
Can you talk about the -- I was a little bit surprised to see the Global Investment Management Assets Under Management down.
Can you talk about the capital raising plans you have for that segment in 2013? Yes David.
First of all it's important to note that the FX impact alone took the Assets Under Management from what would have been slightly positive to negative over the course of the quarter.
We also are doing exactly what our clients in that business want us to do and that is we're selling assets because it's a very good time to be selling assets.
So the combination of those 2 things is really what accounted for that decline.
We expect this to be a very good year in terms of new capital raising and materially better than last year.
Research Division</strong> Just remind us what you had last year if you have that number? In '12 I don't have it.
I think it was net of the securities business I think it was between $3 billion and $3.5 billion.
Sounds about right yes.
Mr.
Marks your line is open.
Research Division</strong> Actually let's start with Jack.
On transactions in -- I guess it was Bob that pointed leasing should pick up for the year off of the 3% first quarter.
Why would you think it would -- what makes you -- you have a lot more knowledge than we do so what gives you that idea? Sure.
Well obviously that's a global number that you just stated right? Research Division</strong> Right.
So you really have to look at it region-by-region to answer the question.
We do believe that in the Americas we are moderately improving.
And so that's part of the answer.
In EMEA as well as difficult as it is in that environment we do believe the second half of the year will be better than the first half and there may be some moderate improvements there as well.
In Asia-Pacific difficult environment.
Currently the multinationals are slow to make decisions.
A lot of the activity is from domestic firms but we do believe that going through the course of '13 that there'll be some moderate improvement in leasing activity there as well.
So when you roll that all up together the global outlook is moderate improvement.
Will this is Bob.
I think the -- just in a nutshell we believe business confidence around the world is going to grow somewhat as the year wears on.
And when business people are confident in their businesses they tend to lease space and when they're nervous they don't.
And leasing decisions can be turned off and on pretty quickly.
So if we're wrong about business confidence growing then we'll be wrong about our enthusiasm for the leasing business growing as the year moves on.
Research Division</strong> Another question on margin.
I'm not going to -- I think you pretty made it clear why there's an upside and why the first quarter was maybe a little weaker than we would have thought.
Was there anything -- I guess it's a quick question.
First quarter '12 is the number as reported or was there any anomaly in that quarter? So Will on the normalized basis it's apples-to-apples.
But I think we didn't -- it hasn't been as highlighted in the Q&amp;A but certainly in our prepared remarks we did talk about the principal businesses also having an impact on margin.
That was normal activity and I'm talking about normalized margin.
So we had higher equity earnings in the prior year in the development business than we had co-investment returns in the investment management business that will hire to the tune of $3 million to $4 million.
And that's the other reason that we've got margin compression.
And again in the first 90 days of the year that type of amount makes an impact a bigger impact on margin dealing with a smaller base.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's very helpful.
And then just a couple of below the line below the EBITDA line questions that you're usually okay answering.
On interest expense for the full year you may have given this and I missed it on the call but can you give us some sense of what the full year number should look like? Yes I can.
And it's going to change quarter-by-quarter obviously going down each quarter particularly after we call the 11.625% notes in June.
So the full year number is going to be around $145 million but it's not going to be ratable.
It'll still be around $40 million in Q2 and then around $30 million in each of 3 and 4.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my last question.
D&amp;A is the first quarter a run rate? Yes it is a run rate.
You're looking on the P&amp;L on the press release you're seeing $46 million.
The normalized equivalent is around $40 million both of which is indicative of the year.
So it's $46 million GAAP per quarter $40 million normalized per quarter.
We have a follow-up from Anthony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just Gil on that principal business comment.
Putting aside the first quarter do you also expect that to be up year-over-year from last year for the full year? Well in answer that question let me split the Development Services business from Global Investment Management.
We said or we have said that Development Services would not be as strong as it was in 2012.
We had a few large sales in '12 that aren't going to recur and that has a lot to do with starts and when -- the downturn in '08 and '09 we've been harvesting certain projects that were held for a little while but the stocks have been down in more recent years.
It's going to take a little while for that business to get back to normal activity.
So bifurcating that from Global Investment Management on the other hand where we see moderate improvement you've got to remember that '12 was obviously a significant improvement when we added in ING REIM for the full year.
We don't have that going for us this year.
We do have some tension in Europe with regard to the situation there.
That is impacting the business.
On the other we've got more robust activity in the U.S.
So all in all moderate improvement in that business development clearly will be down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a couple of other ones.
You'd mentioned in your opening remarks about some of the growth in Leasing came by way of share.
Can you give us a sense as to what just the market I guess like commission pot for maybe a lack of a better term what that change was year-over-year? Sure.
Well as you know tracking leasing is not quite as transparent as tracking sales right? So it's not as much of an exact science.
We do the best we can.
There are firms out there like a CoStar as an example that I would say that the market actually was down significantly quarter-over-quarter.
We believe that it was down slightly and yet we were able to grow our revenues there by picking up share.
One of the reasons for that of course I think is the change in buyer behavior actually.
Our clients now are buying in a more consolidated manner as opposed to a one-off manner.
And we are well positioned to win that business and to service that business.
And so we are taking share as a result from some of our competitors.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just one last question.
I think and maybe this was in the press release.
I think you mentioned that in facilities some project management activity and perhaps Europe maybe helped there.
And I was just curious what the magnitude of something like that is.
Do you see -- is revenue like that that's project-managed and does it tend to have as much duration or is it more or less recurring than sort of the rest of facilities business? Like we should think about any adjustments that we should make there? The project management revenue is less recurring than the facilities management revenue and probably roughly comparably recurring with the transaction management revenue that we do for our Global Corporate Services customers.
And I don't think that I would try to read too much into what might go on for the rest of the year relative to that project management work in Europe.
First of all it's not a dominant number.
It's material to first quarter when it happens.
But if the same thing happened in the third or fourth quarter it wouldn't have a comparable effect on our numbers.
There are no other questions at this time.
Okay.
Thanks everyone and we'll talk to you again at the end of the second quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to CBRE Q2 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Also as a reminder this teleconference is being recorded.
And at this time I will turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Nick Kormeluk.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to CBRE's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
About an hour ago we issued a press release announcing our Q2 financial results.
This release is available on the homepage of our website at www.cbre.com.
This conference call is being webcast and is available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Also available is a presentation slide deck which you can use to follow along with our prepared remarks.
An archive audio of the webcast and a PDF version of the slide presentation will be posted on the website later today and a transcript of our call will be posted tomorrow.
Please turn to the slide labeled forward-looking statements.
This presentation contains statement that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements regarding our future growth momentum operations financial performance and business outlook.
These statements should be considered as estimates only and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Except to the extent required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forward-looking statements that you may hear today.
Please refer to our second quarter earnings report filed on Form 8-K our current annual report on Form 10-K and our current quarterly report on Form 10-Q in particular any discussion of risk factors or forward-looking statements which are filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's website www.sec.gov for a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any estimates that you may hear today.
We may make certain statements during the course of this presentation which include references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations.
As required by these regulations we have provided reconciliations of these measures to what we believe are the most directly comparable GAAP measures which are attached hereto within the appendix.
Please turn to Slide 3.
Participating with me today are Bob Sulentic our President and Chief Executive Officer; Gil Borok our Chief Financial Officer; and Cal Frese Americas Chief Executive Officer.
I'll now turn the call over to Bob.
Thank you Nick.
And please turn to Slide 4.
CBRE achieved another quarter of solid growth in the second quarter of 2013.
Our performance was especially noteworthy coming against the backdrop of continued weak global economic growth as well as heightened financial market volatility and rising U.S.
interest rates following Fed Chairman Bernanke's remarks about the quantitative easing program in late May.
Our improved performance amid this macro environment is a testament to our well-balanced service offering and our people's energy and creativity in collaborating across markets and disciplines to produce outstanding results for our clients.
Nothing is more important to our company.
Overall revenue growth of 9% was fueled by meaningful improvement in all 3 global regions.
We also saw a continued strength in our capital markets and occupier outsourcing businesses.
Asia Pacific led the global regions with 16% revenue growth extending its healthy rebound from a relatively soft first half in 2012.
It was particularly gratifying to see a very strong growth in Greater China for the second consecutive quarter.
The Americas region achieved 10% revenue growth for the second quarter in a row.
Cal Frese CEO of our Americas business will take you through these results later.
More importantly he will discuss our strategy for sustaining growth and improving market share through our focus on better serving clients.
EMEA also continued to recover from a difficult 2012.
Although higher revenue in France and the United Kingdom was tempered by the recessionary environment across most of Continental Europe overall revenue in the region rose 9%.
Turning to our global service lines.
The capital markets-based businesses continued to be growth engines for us.
Global property sales revenue rose 20% and was driven by Asia Pacific and the Americas.
Commercial Mortgage Brokerage revenue improved 22% as investor appetite for debt financing remained strong throughout the quarter despite the long-term interest rates spike later in the period.
Appraisal &amp; Valuation revenue which is closely tied to investment activity improved 10% led by Asia Pacific.
Real estate outsourcing continues to be a growth catalyst as well.
Overall property facilities and project management revenue rose 11% globally with notable strength in EMEA.
Our Global Corporate Services or GCS business which is our occupier outsourcing service lines saw revenues rise 11% globally.
GCS revenue generally includes commissions from sales and lease transactions associated with GCS accounts in addition to facilities and project management fees.
A high degree of occupier caution amid weak global economic growth continued to restrain global leasing performance.
Despite generally soft market conditions however global leasing revenue rose 4% paced by the Americas.
Achieving more robust growth in leasing -- in our leasing business despite the lackluster macro microenvironment is one of CBRE's strategic priorities.
As planned last month we paid down all $450 million of our 11.625% senior subordinated notes due in 2017.
This was the final step in our recent refinancing actions that have materially lower our annualized interest expense while nearly doubling our borrowing capacity.
These actions have markedly strengthened our financial position and have given us increased flexibility to execute our growth strategy.
Now I'll turn the call over to Gil who will review the quarter's financial results and discuss the refinancing actions in more detail.
Thank you Bob.
Please advance to Slide 5.
Total revenue was approximately $1.75 billion for the second quarter of 2013 up 9% from last year.
This increase is at the upper end of our expectations for long-term growth and was generally well balanced among service lines with good growth around the world.
Cost of services increased to 58.5% of total revenue in the second quarter of 2013 versus 56.7% in the second quarter of 2012.
This increase was driven by declining transaction revenue in a few geographies that have a largely fixed cost structure and lower revenue in our principal businesses where all costs are classified as operating expense.
Largely because of this cost of services did not decline commensurate with revenue.
Second quarter 2013 operating expenses were 28.7% of total revenue down from 30.1% in the second quarter of 2012.
It should be noted that $9.1 million of integration and other costs related to the ING REIM acquisition were included in the second quarter of 2012 while there were no such costs in the second quarter of 2013.
Excluding integration costs operating expenses were 29.6% of revenue in the second quarter of 2012.
The current year decrease was achieved despite incremental investments in our operating platform.
Interest expense was down 15% versus the second quarter of 2012 reflecting the effects of our refinancing activities this year.
In the second quarter of 2013 we normalized costs totaling $42.7 million associated with the early redemption of our $450 million 11.625% senior subordinated notes.
Our second quarter 2013 tax rate was approximately 40% consistent with the second quarter of 2012.
The tax rate this quarter was elevated due to a shift in earnings to higher tax jurisdictions and losses in certain countries in Europe where no tax benefit could be provided.
However as we have previously noted we have been focused on the tax efficiency of our legal entity and operating structure.
Given this and the normal seasonality of our transaction revenue we expect the full year 2013 tax rate to approximate 35%.
Depreciation and amortization expense rose by approximately $5 million to $43.6 million driven by increased technology-related capital expenditures and mortgage servicing rights.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share rose 15% to $0.31 in the second quarter of 2013 from $0.27 in the second quarter of 2012.
However costs associated with the early redemption of the 11.625% notes reduced GAAP earnings per share by $0.08.
As a result second quarter 2013 GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.21 compared with $0.23 in last year's second quarter.
Normalized EBITDA rose 10% to $243.1 million in the second quarter of 2013 resulting in a normalized EBITDA margin of 13.9% a slight improvement from 13.8% in the second quarter of 2012.
Please turn to Slide 6.
Property facilities and project management revenue increased 11% for the quarter.
It was once again our largest service line representing 35% of total revenue.
Leasing was our second largest service line comprising 28% of total revenue for the quarter.
Overall leasing growth was moderate at 4% reflecting continued occupier caution in many parts of the world.
However in light of the macro environment we were pleased to see leasing revenue improve in local currencies in all 3 global regions.
Property sales grew by 20% in the second quarter of 2013 paced by Asia Pacific and the Americas.
This reflects healthy growth at a time when investment markets in much of the world remain challenged.
Global Investment Management revenue decreased 1% versus the prior year period.
We will discuss these results in detail later.
Appraisal &amp; Valuation revenue increased 10% for the quarter.
While growth was achieved in all 3 global regions it was especially strong in Asia Pacific.
Commercial Mortgage Brokerage revenue grew 22% year-over-year.
U.S.
loan origination activity was robust through the quarter notwithstanding the long-term interest rate rise late in the period.
Development Services revenue decreased 19% to $12.6 million attributable to lower rental income resulting from property dispositions.
Recurring revenue comprised approximately 61% of total revenue for the same quarter of 2013.
This included leasing commissions from existing clients property and facilities management fees asset management fees and loan servicing fees which are all largely recurring.
Please turn to Slide 7 which shows the continued steady forward vacancy rates and ongoing positive absorption trends that CBRE economists expect to continue over the next 24 months.
Average national cap rates remained relatively stable in the second quarter of 2013 versus both the second quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013.
Year-over-year volumes improved in all 3 property sectors most notably in office.
I'll now hand the call over to Cal who will address our Americas performance and strategy.
Thanks Gil.
Please turn to Slide 8.
We achieved solid growth across the Americas in the second quarter of 2013.
Overall revenue growth of 10% was particularly notable considering the moderately improving economic conditions that continued to prevail in the heightened financial market volatility that developed over the final month of the quarter.
Property sales continued to be a strong growth engine for the region.
Sales revenues increased 19% in the second quarter of 2013 as investor demand was generally strong throughout the quarter and has remained so despite the recent run-up in long-term interest rates.
While the recent widening of CMBS spreads could temper liquidity in some secondary markets core properties remain in high demand and capital flows into real estate remain strong as investors continue to search for yield.
Leasing revenue rose by 5% during the quarter.
This performance comes against a backdrop of mixed local market conditions with modest overall improvement in employment availability and rental rates.
We believe that we could continue to gain market share in the face of generally soft overall market activity.
Continued steady growth of our occupier outsourcing business drove an increase in property facilities and project management revenue of 9% during the quarter.
Please turn to Slide 9.
Our results in the second quarter underscore the well-balanced service offering we have assembled in the Americas as the business has evolved over the past 6 years.
As you can see property sales and leasing comprised almost 3 quarters of our revenue in 2006.
Today they are business mainstays with short -- with strong near- and long-term growth prospects.
But as a result of the dramatic growth of the GCS business sales and leasing now make up 48% of total revenue.
The dark green slice you see here primarily reflects revenue from facilities and project management services.
It does not include transaction commissions associated with our GCS accounts which are reflected in sales and leasing revenue.
On this basis alone GCS now accounts for 28% of Americas revenue.
Please turn to Slide 10.
The GCS business continues to benefit from excellent underlying momentum.
As Bob mentioned GCS achieved revenue growth of approximately 11% in the Americas during the second quarter of 2013.
We have developed a robust occupier outsourcing business over many years as this trend has grown.
Although some major companies have been outsourcing real estate services for many years adoption remains in its early stages for much of corporate America and has only just begun in such sectors as health care and government.
The pressures to reduce costs and improve efficiencies in these sectors should drive increased opportunities for some time.
We believe occupier outsourcing has the potential to be a more than $50 billion global market with at best a 20% current penetration rate.
CBRE is ideally positioned to capitalize on the considerable upside potential in this market.
Reflecting this GCS signed 55 total contracts on a global basis in the second quarter of 2013.
Of these the majority had an Americas component.
Our Americas GCS business signed up many new clients during the second quarter including J.C.
Penney Booz Allen Hamilton and the state of New York and expanded our services for such clients as Dell and AT&amp;T.
Now please turn to Slide 11.
Our asset services business contribute significantly to properties facilities and project management revenue.
This business generally grows more modestly than GCS.
However we have amassed by far the largest third-party property management portfolio in the industry which gives our clients a distinct advantage in terms of our breadth of expertise and ability to achieve economies of scale.
Asset services is strategically important as it enables us to provide property owners with an integrated leasing and management service offering across a broad portfolio.
We are particularly focused on urban high rise and trophy assets through our Premier Properties initiatives.
We added 16 such properties in the first 6 months of this year and now service a portfolio of more than 200 of these large landmark properties.
We are also concentrating on growing our relationships with strategic institutional property owners some of which you see represented here.
Please turn to Slide 12.
Leasing services on behalf of property occupiers and owners has been a core offering for CBRE for more than 100 years.
In the Americas we have more than 2 400 specialized professionals providing this service.
Included among the occupiers they serve are clients of our GCS business.
A year ago we made the decision to increase our investment in the leasing business launching a number of initiatives including an expansion of our managed brokerage strategy and mid-market initiative.
We are highly focused on growing our revenue and market share.
Jack Durburg our Global President of Transaction Services described our systematic approach to agency and occupier pursuits in detail last quarter.
CBRE.
Is renowned for large complex transactions such as the ones you see identified here.
We take a highly strategic consultative approach to every assignment.
This goes far beyond finding space and negotiating lease terms.
These activities are preceded by sophisticated client advisory work that requires thorough knowledge of market activity and trends complex financial and qualitative analysis of space alternatives and insightful strategies to engage the marketplace.
Such broad-ranging expertise is typically beyond the scope of any one individual.
Therefore in nearly all cases our service is delivered through collaboration among our professionals who have access to a depth of resources and organizational support that many competitors have difficulty replicating.
Our go-to-market strategy and reputation for quality services continue to catalyze future growth.
Now on to Slide 13.
The same sophisticated approach underpins our work in the real estate investment market.
Much like the leasing market our 650 investment sales and mortgage brokerage professionals are organized around property type expertise and teamwork is emphasized to ensure success in both strategic advice and execution.
The results of our efforts are clear.
Real Capital Analytics has identified CBRE as the #1 U.S.
investment firm for the past 7 consecutive years.
Based on RCA data for the first half of 2013 we are once again the leading firm with market share of 16.9% an increase of 110 basis points from the same period in 2012.
In addition Real Estate Alert ranked us #1 at mid-year for office property sales valued at $25 million or higher.
As this track record demonstrates we are highly active at all price points within the market executing transactions valued between a few million and a few billion dollars.
Our Commercial Mortgage Brokerage business consists of large origination activity to facilitate asset acquisitions or refinancings and loan sales for lenders who want to remove these assets from their balance sheets.
We also have a sizable loan servicing portfolio of more than $100 billion.
Our overall loan activity has been strong this year with volume rising from 27% to $11.6 billion at mid-year.
We do business across all property types and have deep relationships with banks life companies conduits private equity firms and government agencies all of whom increased their commercial mortgage portfolios this year.
Increasingly what sets CBRE apart is our ability to deliver sophisticated integrated capital market solutions for buyers and sellers of real estate.
A good example of this is the sale of One Wells Fargo Center in Charlotte where we arranged both the sale and financing of the property.
Few firms can match CBRE's strength in real estate capital markets.
As a result we believe we are poised for further market share gains and revenue growth in this business.
Now I'll turn the call back to Gil who will continue to review our second quarter performance.
Thanks Cal.
Please turn to Slide 14.
EMEA overall revenue growth was 9% in the second quarter of 2013.
This is very solid growth considering the recessionary macro environment across most of Europe.
France and the U.K.
were the primary drivers of this revenue increase.
Property sales revenue was flat for the quarter following exceptionally strong growth in the first quarter.
Our performance was split during the quarter.
In the U.K.
CBRE was the most active firm in the investment market in the second quarter according to property data which led to double-digit revenue growth.
However our activity was lower in much of Continental Europe with the exception of Belgium Spain and Switzerland.
The leveling off of growth reflects the fact that investors remain cautious and highly selective in their acquisition decisions although sentiment has improved somewhat over the past few quarters.
Leasing revenue grew 3% across the EMEA paced by gains in France and the U.K.
Belgium and Ireland also saw growth.
While modest this growth comes at a time when occupiers remain hesitant to make long-term commitments and rent growth remains largely stuck in neutral.
Property facilities and project management was our largest business within the region during the second quarter.
Revenue growth was robust at 22%.
This strong performance is the result of our hard work over several years to build a broad market-leading platform to meet the real estate needs of property owners and occupiers.
Please turn to Slide 15.
Asia Pacific was our fastest-growing business segment in the second quarter of 2013 continuing a rebound from muted performance in 2012.
Overall revenue growth of 16% is particularly noteworthy in light of slowing economic activity in much of the region and the impact of a stronger dollar.
In local currencies total revenue in Asia Pacific was up 20%.
Property sales were a strong growth catalysts rising by 62% or 67% in local currencies reflecting our progress in taking market share.
Activity was strong across the entire region especially in Greater China and Japan.
Australia and Singapore also saw good growth.
This is our second consecutive quarter of robust sales growth in Asia Pacific.
This is particularly gratifying considering that investment activity remains subdued across much of the region.
In contrast leasing revenue was essentially flat in dollar terms but did show growth of 3% in local currencies.
Demand for space remained tempered especially for multinational companies.
Nevertheless we saw higher leasing revenue in Australia and Greater China which was partly offset by a notable decrease in Japan.
However approximately 1/2 of the decline in Japan was caused by the yen's depreciation against the dollar.
Property facilities and project management revenue rose by 8% in the second quarter of 2013 or 12% in local currencies.
Our outsourcing business is growing nicely across this region.
Recent assignments include Citigroup Macquarie Group and Oracle.
Please turn to Slide 16.
Revenue for the Development Services segment including discontinued operations totaled $14 million in the second quarter of 2013 versus $17.8 million in the second quarter of 2012.
The lower amount resulted from property dispositions which reduced rental revenue.
However normalized EBIT improved to $7.4 million due to higher earnings from property sales primarily reflected in real estate gains.
Development projects in process totaled $4.7 billion up $400 million from the first quarter and $500 million from year-end 2012.
The inventory of pipeline deals totaled $1.7 billion down $200 million from the first quarter and $400 million from year-end 2012.
Our equity co-investments at the end of the second quarter of -- second quarter of 2013 in the Development Services business totaled $72.4 million an our recourse debt stood at $16.2 million.
Please turn to Slide 17.
Second quarter 2013 Global Investment Management revenue totaled $115.9 million compared with $119.7 million in the second quarter of 2012.
The decrease was primarily due to lower asset management fees and lower rental income following property dispositions partially offset by higher acquisition and disposition fees.
Global Investment Management assets under management or AUM totaled $88.2 billion at the end of the second quarter of 2013 a decrease of $3.8 billion from year-end 2012.
Included in the current AUM is $23.6 billion of listed securities.
The decrease from year-end 2012 reflect the portfolio dispositions of $4.6 billion as we helped our clients take advantage of the current sales environment to harvest gains in their portfolios as well as negative foreign currency effect of $1.8 billion.
These were partially offset by gains of $300 million in the value of the real estate securities and direct investment portfolios and acquisitions of $2.3 billion.
We remain active buyers of value-added product in the U.S.
During the second quarter of 2013 we raised equity capital of approximately $500 million in the direct real estate business and had approximately $2.8 billion of equity capital to deploy at the end of the quarter.
Our co-investments in this business at the end of the quarter totaled $191.8 million.
Our Global Investment Management EBITDA record reconciliation detail is shown on Slide 18.
As of June 30 2013 we maintained a cumulative accrual of carried interest compensation expense of approximately $47 million which pertains to anticipated future carried interest revenue.
For the second quarter of 2013 the net carried interest incentive compensation expense totaled $2.9 million.
We normalized $2.6 million of carried interest compensation expense which pertains to a fund for which no carried interest expense had previously been recognized.
It is our intention to follow this convention for new funds going forward.
We did not normalize $300 000 of carried interest compensation expense which pertains to an existing fund for which carried interest compensation expense had previously been taken.
This business operated with a pro forma normalized EBITDA margin of 30% for the second quarter of 2013 an increase of 500 basis point from the second quarter of 2012.
The increase was driven by improved co-investment returns and lower provisions for bad debt and legal matters as compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Slide 19 shows our liquidity position at June 30 2013 as well as our amortization and debt maturity schedule for all outstanding corporate debt.
As you will recall in March 2013 we've completed a series of refinancing transactions.
At that time we amended our present agreement to provide for $715 million of partly delayed short-term loans and a $1.2 billion revolving credit facility.
This nearly doubled the borrowing capacity we had under the old revolver.
We also sold $800 million of new 10-year 5% fixed rate senior unsecured notes.
As Bob mentioned last month we took the final step in our 2013 refinancing plan paying down our $450 million 11.625% senior subordinated notes which were due in 2017.
You can see here the benefits of these actions.
We have extended maturities far into the future with little debt coming due for 3 years.
We reduced total corporate debt by about $500 million and cut annualized interest expense by approximately $50 million when compared to annualized interest expense before the refinancing actions.
These actions leave us well-positioned to make strategic investments to drive further growth with increased financial flexibility to be opportunistic and continue navigating an uncertain recovery.
Please turn to Slide 20.
Excluding cash within consolidated funds and other entities not available for company use and excluding our nonrecourse real estate loans and our mortgage brokerage warehouse facilities our total net debt at the end of the second quarter of 2013 was approximately $1.7 billion.
While this represents an increase of $136.7 million from year-end 2012 due to seasonal incentive compensation payment net debt is down $272 million from the second quarter of 2012.
At the end of the second quarter of 2013 our weighted average interest rate was approximately 5%.
This is a 60 basis point decrease from year-end 2012.
Our leverage ratio on a covenant basis as of the end of the second quarter of 2013 stood at 1.65x on a trailing 12-month basis.
Our total company net debt to trailing 12-month normalized EBITDA stood at 1.7x.
This is a marked improvement from 2.19x in the second quarter of 2012.
Consistent with historical trends we expect net debt to decrease during the course of the year.
I'll now turn the call back over to Bob for closing remarks.
Thanks Gil.
Please turn to Slide 21.
As we reached the year's midway point we see that our performance in 2013 is generally unfolding consistent with our expectations.
Like many business people around the world we continue to be disappointed in the lack of sustained improvement in the global economy.
The more recent heightened concerns about the U.S.
Federal Reserve's monetary policies have added another dimension to existing challenges.
Nonetheless CBRE's strengths including our brand people flexible capital structure and balanced service offering give us confidence in our continued success amid historically slow and uneven market recovery.
We remain highly focused on improving our industry-leading margins while making the kind of operational investments that will help us to better serve our clients and execute our growth strategy.
CBRE remains on course to achieve full year revenue growth in the mid- to high single digits consistent with our long-term business model.
Among our major business lines we expect that property sales will remain strong.
Even with slightly higher borrowing costs institutional and entrepreneurial investors remain highly attracted to the yields available from commercial property relative to other income-oriented investments.
Property facilities and project management services should sustain steady low double-digit growth rates paced by growing global adoption of occupier outsourcing.
Leasing should gain momentum as we realize the benefits of our strategic growth initiatives in this business and underlying fundamentals continue to slowly heal.
Investment Management should produce significant carried interest revenue much of which was anticipated in our initial expectations for 2013.
We continue to expect margins to expand by around 50 basis points for the full year driven by contributions from our Investment Management business as well as the normal acceleration in transaction services activity in the second half of the year.
We also remain disciplined around managing operating expenses to a level appropriate given revenue expectations.
In light of the strong current sales environment and the opportunity this affords to harvest gains in our Investment Management portfolio we may exceed our initial expectations for carried interest revenue for the full year.
If this happens we could modestly exceed our original expectations of earnings per share as adjusted of $1.40 to $1.45 for the full year 2013.
With that operator we'll take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Let me just start with from a personnel point of view.
How should we expect the pace of broker additions or personnel additions second half of the year versus the first half of the year? Well Brandon Cal Frese runs our Americas.
He's obviously with us today and the biggest bulk of our brokers work for Cal.
So I think he's the best one to answer that.
And then I'll -- when he's done with that I'll add on for EMEA and Asia Pacific.
Hey Brandon.
I guess as we've talked about before we have an aggressive strategy right now to be attracting A players into gaps and open spaces in our platform.
And through June we have attracted approximately 100 new professionals into the business.
Now I have to say that our strategy is not to bulk up here but to really add key players in key markets or key sectors in the business.
We think that that track record will continue over the course of the year.
And we feel good about our ability to attract new people into the industry.
And Brandon this is Bob adding on with regarding to EMEA and Asia Pacific.
It's -- the philosophy we're -- and initiatives we're following in Americas we're following around the world.
And we're meeting with success adding good people to our team everywhere.
We've -- last quarter we had Jack Durburg on the call our Global President of Brokerage.
And what we've asked Jack to do for us is to drive this initiative around the world.
So we're seeing around the world what Cal is seeing here in Americas and we're quite pleased with it.
When we talk about this incremental investment in our business this is one of the areas we're really focused on is adding production talent.
In addition to that we're adding management talent and investing in technology and some other platform aspects of our business.
But we're really focused on adding production talent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Shifting gears a little bit.
Any lingering effects that you guys have seen as you've worked into July from all the noise in kind of May and June around rates picking or have you seen pipeline conversion rates change here in the U.S.
or I guess in the U.K.
also? Can I jump and grab that again? We're watching this obviously very closely I'd say day-to-day but it seems hour-to-hour in some ways.
But based on the anecdotal evidence so far I think we've seen relatively minimal impact on really either pricing or volumes to date particularly for core assets and in those gateway cities.
When you think about it the capital remains abundant particularly again for core assets.
Real estate remains an attractive asset class for the traditional reasons of diversification and inflation hedge but also importantly continues to offer attractive returns relative to other asset classes.
So we believe a modestly improving economy will continue to trend of improving fundamentals which will help.
So all in all we think the second half should continue to be strong in the capital markets business.
And I would only add to that by saying that there's the environment we operating in and then there's what we're doing within that environment.
And this kind of links back into that first question Brandon and that is we are aggressively working to improve our capabilities.
We're starting to feel that in our results.
And so we're hopeful and expecting that the markets will act around the world the way Cal has described.
We're also hoping and expecting that we'll perform a little bit better than that because of some of the steps we've taken.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final one for me.
Within GCS maybe kind of a two-part question what is your exposure to kind of it's called the brick-and-mortar retailers look like? And then any sense of the wins that you talked about in GCS this quarter a geographic breakdown? Is it all Americas or was it spread across the regions pretty well? Why don't I hit that Cal just globally on GCS and you can talk about the Americas.
We do have some exposure to brick-and-mortar retailers within GCS.
But actually some of the challenges that they're facing is causing them to be interested in our services and everything from disposing of spaces to managing space while they get back to focusing on their core businesses so on and so forth.
So we're not feeling Brandon any negative effects of the movement to online retailing from brick-and-mortar retailing in our business.
We do a lot of retail facilities for banks and that's been very good business and positive business unaffected.
On a relative basis our GCS business is much bigger here in the U.S.
than it is in other parts of the world but we had a very good growth quarter outside the U.S.
in GCS.
So that was encouraging.
Cal? All I would add is that I think that of those contracts most of them actually had an Americas component to them.
But what we're seeing in our pipeline is larger opportunities with international pieces to them.
So it's all been pretty good.
Our next question in queue will come from the line of Anthony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Joe Dazio here with Tony.
Wondering if I could dig into the gross margin a little bit again.
Gil can you clarify I think you said that it went down because there were regions in which there was a fixed cost component for producers that saw a decline in transactions did I hear that right? You did.
So you've got a couple of things going on that are affecting the move in terms of cost of services versus revenue.
And essentially as you know cost of services in general will move with revenue particularly when it's commission based or transaction based less so in the outsourcing business.
But we had a revenue decrease in the principal businesses which have no cost of services component.
So when you have a revenue decrease their cost of services is not moving down there because it's all in OpEx.
And then we also had 1 or 2 countries in particular that have more fixed cost structures than let's say using the U.S.
as a compare where we have a commission structure.
We've got a couple of countries where revenue was down but cost was not down commensurate with revenue.
And that's having any impact if you will on the ratio of cost of services to revenue because they're not moving in like kind in those 2 instances.
Research Division</strong> And is that primarily in EMEA where that occurs? Actually not.
The largest one was actually in Brazil.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One other I guess margin-related question.
The incremental EBITDA margin looked like it was about 16% or so.
And I guess just kind of curious how you think that number -- how much do you think that number could have potentially expand? I guess the transaction businesses -- we've been using the rule of thumb they produce overall margins of about 20% so the incremental margins could be higher.
So do you think that 16% could go up from here or do you think that the impact of the outsourcing business is so great that it kind of pulls that down there's not a whole lot of upside? Joe this is Bob let me comment on that and then Gil will probably have some follow-on.
First of all part of what you're seeing in our margins this quarter and you will see in our margins throughout this year is this choice we've made about incremental investments in our business.
And we very specifically and very strategically and with the endorsement of our board I might add put a program in place to invest incrementally in our business because we think we're situated in the marketplace such that we can really benefit from those investments.
So investments in talent investments in some local market managers to drive the business investments in IT and research and things like that in our platform.
We've articulated in the first quarter and I'll repeat here we think that the net incremental investment for the year is about $40 million.
We think that'll have an impact on our margins for the year of about 80 basis points relative to what they would have otherwise been in the second -- excuse me for about 50 basis points for the year.
In the second quarter we think that impact was about 80 basis points.
We are very very focused on those investments.
So when you look this year at the margin associated with incremental dollars of revenue you're going to see something slightly different than you would have seen from us historically and probably something slightly different than you're going to see from us prospectively because this is a year where we're ramping up and catching up a little making some investments that we need to make.
So that's part of what you're seeing in those numbers.
And Gil I don't know what you'd want to add to that.
Yes the only thing I would add for you to consider of course is we're in the second quarter and it's a 90-day period.
And so what you were sort of suggesting in terms of as the year goes on it is true that the pie shift naturally with the seasonality of the transaction business.
And accordingly the impact on a full year basis will be different than on -- just on the second quarter or the first quarter.
Can I just -- do you mind if I -- this is Cal CEO of the Americas.
I simply would say that there's tremendous alignment among the management team on these strategic investments that Bob's talking about.
And everyone across the world is intensely focused on managing the business extremely carefully because we're laying in these strategic investments which we believe will be high-yield investments.
So we're on it.
I think we have this reputation.
I've been here for 15 years and was COO of the Americas at one point in my career and we're very focused on running an efficient business.
Research Division</strong> Is there any I guess goal with respect to incremental margins? I know in prior years you've talked sort of the 20% corporate margin goal being out there.
But with these investments does that kind of change any of the thinking as to how that could trend over the next couple of years? What we've talked about is where we think we're going to get to this year Joe which is 50 basis points of margin increment above last year after taking into account those investments.
And again we think those investments are going to cost us about 50 basis points of margin this year.
So said differently we would have expanded about 1% this year in the absence of those investments.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then last question the leasing growth it looks like it's kind of in the low to mid-single digits globally.
Is there a way you can roughly break that out and maybe do it regionally if you can by the different buckets that drive leasing revenues up? So in other words how much of that growth is from rents going up versus lease durations going up versus square footage going up? Joe the short answer is essentially it's still a volume velocity driver.
So it's really more about the number of transactions being up because the rental rates are up in some places but in the U.S.
they're up a little bit not very much; and in Europe they're pretty much flat; and I think more or less the same for Asia.
So it's really still about volume more than anything else.
What we do know is that in the second quarter the volume of leases we did was up slightly and the size of those leases in terms of dollars was up slightly.
So you had the cumulative effect of those 2 things.
But that's an aggregate answer for what we saw around the world and across product types.
Our next question in queue will come from Will Marks with JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> Let me first ask Gil do you ever comment on where net debt could be year end in terms of -- based on hitting your guidance or just any related thoughts? Well no.
The only statement that we've made is naturally net debt will go down as the year progresses because of the seasonality.
But we haven't given a number in terms the way net debt would be at 12/31.
And let me say Will we talk about the investments we're ranking.
The investments that Cal and Gil and I have been talking about so far in this call are income statement investments.
We're forgoing some short-term income.
We also have an aggressive plan for making balance sheet investments with our capital.
We're co-investing in our Investment Management business.
We're co-investing in our development business.
We're -- we have M&amp;A we're looking at and we were doing capital expenditures for technologies.
So all of that's going to play into that net debt picture between now and the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
Second question on the guidance.
Just to be clear I think you have been clear that the potential upside in guidance does not relate to your particular investments sales revenues being higher than expected.
It's rather how that drives the asset management revenues? Well the incremental -- if there is an incremental it's purely related to CBRE global investors and carried interest.
That's got nothing to do with capital markets.
So just to be clear it's all about the potential for carried interest that we see as high.
That's what's driving that comment about the flexibility of exceeding where we're at.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then last question more big picture on leasing conditions.
I don't want to put words in your mouth because it may not have been you guys have commented.
But we have heard from at least others that second half leasing revenues maybe it's just domestic should be higher than first half meaning growth rates should be higher.
Do you think that's a fair assumption and can you talk about outlook overseas as well? Let me start in the Americas.
We did at the beginning of the year forecast that the economy would improve during the year and leasing would get stronger as the year progressed.
And really notwithstanding the choppiness that we see today anecdotally and from everything we see in market we continue to believe the second half will be better.
Job growth and improvement in housing are having impact on the consumer and the related specialties particularly warehousing and retail sentiment is improving based on what's happening in Europe.
Sovereign debt issues and consumer confidence is actually higher today than 1 year ago and it's at a 5-year high.
So with real estate fundamentals improving and the activity levels that we see we really have a general confidence that the second half is going to be better.
Will I'd say this is Bob.
I'd say for EMEA that's where we're at as well.
We think that the second half should be better.
London is such an important part of the business not only for ourselves but for the companies we compete with over there.
And there's reason to think that that would improve in the second half.
Germany same thing.
Obviously Southern Europe Spain Italy is challenged but that's not as big a part as our -- of our business.
We're waiting to see what's going to happen in France and in particular in Paris.
But I think on balance we think it should be a little better in EMEA in the second half.
Asia Pacific is a little bit different story.
The domestic companies and the domestic part of the economy is where there is more activity now and the global companies that operate there the multinationals or the companies where we're seeing less activity the global real estate companies like ourselves tend to do more of our business with those global companies.
And as a result we're less inclined to think that there's going to be a material pickup in the second half in Asia Pacific than we are here in the United States or in EMEA.
Our next question in queue will come from David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So I'd guess consensus thinking was the first 100 basis points increase in interest rates wouldn't have an impact on investment sales volumes.
But I don't think anybody was thinking that that would happen in such a brief amount of time.
So just wondering historically what's been the effect of an interest rate shock on your investment sales in the next 3 to 6 months? Have potential buyers stepped away from the table? Well it depends on the situation surrounding it.
If it's akin to a pickup -- a material pickup in economic activity and the economy getting better as my colleague Cal Frese likes to say it's hard not to feel good about the things that improved economy would do in our business -- to our business.
So we think if there's a material spike up in interest rates it's probably going to be because there's a materially better view about what's going on in the economy.
And so we believe that historically that's kind of in the case.
If there was something else going on beyond that that wasn't tied to the economy then at some point that would be in all probability a drag on the capital markets because there are significant number of leverage buyers out there.
It also though always depends on what the alternative investment classes they are doing that are available to investors and real estate is becoming an increasingly accepted investment class.
Cal I don't know if you would...
I would only say that what happened in June was abrupt but anticipated.
And I think the world was ready for it.
I'm not saying it hasn't had any impact.
But again anecdotally looking at our own volumes and demand in the capital and the business we seem to feel that's pretty good.
I think people reasonably expect that interest rates could continue to rise but so long as they do that in a way that people can anticipate and manage into their forward-looking outlooks then it can cause a pause from time-to-time but it is manageable.
And we've seen this over every cycle.
The other -- I think the other interesting about this David is that the place where we think we're most vulnerable to dampening an investment property's activity from increased interest rates is in the second tier markets.
Because the first -- the primary markets around the world are being driven by other dynamics the value of properties.
So we think it's the second tier markets where you'll see the biggest impact from interest rates.
Ironically we also think it's the second tier markets where we'll see the biggest impact from an improved economy.
So those 2 things really should offset each other to a degree.
Obviously if either into that gets extreme relative to the other you're going to get results that reflect that.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then in Investment Management would you expect that disposition is going to outweigh acquisitions in the second half as well? Yes this year.
Well dispositions are going to be very material.
There is a chance that we could ramp up acquisitions to be on par with dispositions.
But the general repetition of our leadership team in the Investment Management business is that this is a year we're going to be harvesting because our clients want us to be harvesting.
And then we think that starting next year you'll see the opposite effect take place.
But we are in an aggressive harvest mode because that's what the investors did.
We work for one.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then when you look at the 2013 forecast that you put in your slides for absorption all that -- all those forecasts were up.
I think office was up 26 million square feet from 19 million last quarter.
And so I'm sort of wondering if that forecast is realized are we talking about -- and definitely heard your comments earlier on the call about pickup in leasing momentum I'm just wondering how substantial that momentum could get? Are we talking about high single digit here or more sort of in the mid-single-digit range? Yes it's not high single digits.
It's -- it'll be in the middle range maybe improved over where we are.
But remember we're in the low single digit at this point in the U.S.
in particular.
And so I think there'll be some improvement with an improving economy but not dramatic.
And again we believe we're outperforming the overall activity in the market and we believe that that will continue as well.
At this time there are no additional questions in queue.
Please continue.
Okay.
Well thanks everyone.
And we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference call for today.
We do thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the CBRE Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Nick Kormeluk in Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to CBRE's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
About an hour ago we issued a press release announcing our Q3 financial results.
This release is available on the home page of our website at cbre.com.
This conference call is being webcast and is available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Also available is a presentation slide deck which you can use to follow along with our prepared remarks.
An archived audio of the webcast and a PDF version of the slide presentation will be posted to the website later today and a transcript of our call will be posted tomorrow.
Please turn to the slide labeled forward-looking statements.
This presentation contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements regarding our future growth momentum operations financial performance and business outlook.
These statements should be considered as estimates only and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Except to the extent required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forward-looking statements that you may hear today.
Please refer to our third quarter earnings report filed on Form 8-K our current annual report filed on Form 10-K and our current quarterly report on Form 10-Q in particular any discussion of risk factors or forward-looking statements which are filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's website sec.gov for a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any estimates that you may hear today.
We may make certain statements during the course of this presentation which include references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations.
As required by these regulations we have provided reconciliations of these measures to what we believe are the most directly comparable GAAP measures which are attached hereto within the appendix.
Please turn to Slide 3.
Participating with me today are Bob Sulentic our President and Chief Executive Officer; Gil Borok our Chief Financial Officer; and Mike Strong our EMEA Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
I'll now turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Nick.
Please turn to Slide 4.
The third quarter was another period of strong growth for CBRE.
Before we review this quarter in detail I'd like take you back to our Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call in July.
As we looked ahead to the rest of 2013 we said we expected that property sales would remain strong despite modestly higher interest rates and anxieties over the U.S.
Federal Reserve's policies.
Occupier outsourcing would sustain steady low-double-digit growth rates.
Leasing would gain momentum as a result of our increased focus and slowly improving market fundamentals.
Investment Management would benefit from significant carried interest revenue much of which was anticipated in our initial expectation for 2013.
EBITDA margin would expand by around 50 basis points in the full year driven by increased contributions from Investment Management as well as the normal increase in transaction activity during second half of the year.
The third quarter overall played out much as we expected.
Our performance relative to our 3 primary financial metrics: revenue normalized EBITDA and earnings per share was consistent with our plan.
Importantly we achieved solid top and bottom line growth while continuing to make very important strategic investments as previously announced in people and technology.
These investments are strengthening our abilities for our professionals and serve our clients while positioning us for future success.
Gil will provide more details on these efforts.
Our growth in this quarter came amid highly variable global market conditions caused by a soft economic recovery and ongoing U.S.
fiscal and monetary policy uncertainty underlined by the extreme policy discord in Washington D.C.
in recent weeks.
Despite all of this there were many areas of significant strength along with a few weak spots which added up to healthy growth for the quarter.
In fact in a market like this we benefit significantly from our well-balanced business and lean position we hold across business lines and markets around the world.
Regionally our growth was paced by very strong performance in EMEA.
Mike Strong will join us shortly to discuss how we have strengthened this business and how we are benefiting from the beginning of an economic recovery in Europe.
We also achieved a number -- another strong quarter of double-digit revenue growth in the Americas our largest business segment.
Looking at Asia-Pacific in U.S.
dollar terms revenue rose only 1% however this result was impacted materially by weaker foreign currencies notably the Australian dollar the rupee and the yen.
In local currencies Asia-Pacific revenue grew solidly rising 13% when compared to a year earlier.
Please turn to Slide 5.
You can see that we experienced strong growth in most service lines.
Property sales again set the base for growth.
Globally revenue from this business line rose 29% led by resurgent activity in the EMEA while Asia-Pacific and the Americas also produced double-digit growth.
Global Leasing revenue grew by 11% our best performance in 8 quarters.
Notably we saw a 12% increase in the Americas reflecting our ability to take market share.
As you know we've been focused on growing this business line and we are especially pleased with the result this quarter.
Demand for occupier outsourcing services also remains strong.
This business called Global Corporate Services or GCS signed 54 total contracts during the quarter including 20 with new clients.
Globally GCS revenue was 14%.
This led to 9% improvement overall in our property facilities and project management revenue line.
Appraisal &amp; Valuation revenue rose 7% led by EMEA.
Our results in the third quarter were further bolstered by our Global Investment Management business.
As we noted last quarter we have been capitalizing on the favorable property sales environment to harvest gains in our Investment Management portfolio.
As a result we realized outsized carried interest revenue during the quarter reflecting incremental revenue for exceeding performance hurdles and leading to an 11% revenue increase.
Since we have already recognized all of the compensation expense associated with this revenue under GAAP accounting rules we also saw an outsized impact on the bottom line with normalized EBITDA rising approximately 52% from a year ago.
Generating carried interest revenue is integral to our strategy of having a highly diversified business mix and to achieving success for the investors and the funds we manage.
Gil will discuss this in more detail shortly.
One business line that was a cause of concern in the quarter was U.S.
Commercial Mortgage Brokerage.
Revenue dropped meaningfully which caused downward pressure on the results in the quarter.
This business line felt the effects of the government-sponsored enterprises' or GSEs' efforts to scale back their lending activity as mandated by the regulators.
This acutely affected the profits associated with mortgage servicing work we performed for these entities.
Gil will take you through the bottom line impact of this situation.
As our third quarter results demonstrate CBRE continues to perform for our clients and their shareholders.
This is a tribute to our people who are collaborating effectively and leveraging our brand product offerings and geographic footprint to create solutions for our clients and capture opportunity for CBRE.
Now I'll turn the call over to Gil for our financial review.
Thank you Bob.
Please advance to Slide 6.
Revenue totaled approximately $1.73 billion up 11% from the third quarter of 2012.
Recurring revenue comprise approximately 62% of total revenue for the third quarter of 2013 consistent with the third quarter of 2012.
This included Leasing commissions from existing clients property facilities and project management fees asset management fees and loan servicing fees which are all largely recurring.
Cost of services totaled 59.5% of revenue in the third quarter of 2013 versus 58.8% in the third quarter of 2012.
The increase was primarily attributable to a concentration of commissions among higher-producing professionals in the U.S.
and Asia-Pacific.
In addition the higher recruitment costs associated with the client-facing professionals increased this ratio.
We continue to manage operating expenses prudently while making necessary strategic investments in our company.
During the quarter we added senior executive leaders in marketing IT and research increased our sales management depth and added marketing support for our brokers and other professionals.
We also continued our escalated efforts which is [ph] several strategic IT initiatives.
The majority of these investments were in the Americas given the size of that business.
Even with these investments global operating expenses totaled 28.6% of revenue compared to 31% of revenue in the third quarter of 2012.
The prior year quarter included $24.8 million of acquisition-related and cost-containment expenses.
Excluding these costs for the third quarter of 2012 operating expenses still declined 80 basis points for the current quarter.
In the third quarter of 2013 we benefited from a 36% decline in interest expense.
This was the result of the refinancing activities we completed earlier this year particularly the early redemption of our 11.625% senior subordinated notes in June.
With our restructured balance sheet the annualized interest expense savings is expected to be approximately $50 million.
Depreciation and amortization expense rose by approximately $7.4 million to $47.5 million driven by increased capital expenditures in facilities and technology that are further strengthening CBRE's competitive position in the marketplace.
Amortization of previously capitalized amounts related to GSE mortgage servicing also contributed to this increase.
Our tax rate was 37% for the third quarter of 2013 versus 31% in last year's third quarter.
The third quarter of 2012 benefited significantly from a favorable discrete item.
In addition there was a shift in earnings to higher tax jurisdictions in the third quarter of 2013.
As we have previously noted we continue to work hard to improve the tax efficiency of our legal entities and operating structure.
Given these efforts we expect the full year 2013 tax rates to be approximately 35% or slightly higher.
Normalized EBITDA grew by 15% over the prior year quarter.
This resulted in a 13% normalized EBITDA margin for the quarter a 50 basis-point expansion over the third quarter of 2012.
Adjusted earnings per share also rose 15% to $0.30 while GAAP earnings per share more than doubled to $0.28 due to higher selected charges in last year's third quarter related to the ING REIM acquisition cost containment expenses and a write-down of a trade name that is no longer in use.
The increase in adjusted earnings per share was muted primarily as a result of the impact of the elevated tax rate.
Please turn to Slide 7.
Strong growth was evident in much of our Americas operations in the third quarter of 2013.
Overall revenue grew 11% marking our fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth in this our largest business segment.
Sales revenue rose 26%.
This robust growth came amid concerns about how the rise in interest rates and more generally speculation about when the U.S.
Federal Reserve will begin to curtail its bucket [ph] bond purchases would affect property investment.
Clearly the affect in the third quarter was negligible.
Leasing revenue growth of 12% was a very satisfying performance.
Leasing markets generally remained sluggish with weak demand and rent growth.
We estimate that gross office leasing activities declined during the third quarter of 2013.
That CBRE would achieve double-digit revenue growth in such an environment is evidence of our continued success in taking market share.
Property facilities and project management overall continued to show steady growth of 9%.
GCS our occupier outsourcing business grew revenue by 18% in the Americas during the third quarter of 2013 reflecting occupier's growing appetite for outsourcing their real estate management functions.
We also completed an acquisition in the Americas in the third quarter of 2013.
FAMECO a specialty retail firm serving parts of Pennsylvania New Jersey and Delaware gives us a market-leading presence in retail real estate services in those areas.
I now want elaborate further on the 10% revenue decline in U.S.
Commercial Mortgage Brokerage.
When the GSEs were required to curb their lending during the quarter we saw life insurance companies and others quickly fill the void for multifamily financing.
Indeed our loan origination volume was up strongly from virtually all major debt sources except the GSEs.
Overall our U.S.
loan originations rose 16%.
However where our mortgage business was especially impacted was in the origination and servicing work we do for the GSEs.
We are a large originator of GSE multifamily loans in the U.S.
While this is a relatively small business for us it has a disproportionately large impact on our income statement due to GAAP accounting requirements.
The profit associated with servicing work for the GSEs is recognized upfront as loans are originated and the related assets are amortized over the life of the servicing contracts.
The unexpected decline in GSE originations drove our third quarter year-over-year decrease in earnings of approximately $15 million.
Excluding the impact of upfront GSE servicing profits in both the third quarter of 2013 and the third quarter of 2012 the Americas normalized EBITDA margin would have improved modestly.
Please turn to Slide 8.
Our quarterly market statistics also highlight the fact that CBRE's strong performance is coming against the backdrop of slowly improving fundamentals.
As you can see the U.S.
market recovery continues to progress with a steady fall in vacancy rates and generally positive absorption.
CBRE economists expect this trend to continue over the next 24 months.
Average national cap rates are largely stable compared with a year ago although they came down a bit for office properties over the past 3 months.
Year-over-year volumes continue to improve in all 3 properties sectors most notably in office.
Please turn to Slide 9.
An overall revenue increase of 1% understates the strength of CBRE's growth in Asia-Pacific during the third quarter of 2013.
While slowing economic activity in much of the region has not been helpful CBRE nevertheless improved revenue 13% in local currencies with several countries showing growth particularly Australia India and Japan.
Investment markets in the region continue to recover from a soft 2012.
CBRE's property sales business performed roughly in step with that improvement with revenue rising 15% or 30% in local currencies.
Japan was once again the biggest growth catalyst as the country's improving economic fortunes continue to grow more foreign and domestic capital to its real estate markets.
A Leasing decline of 3% in the U.S.
in U.S.
dollar terms masks underlying improvement in Leasing performance during the quarter.
In local currencies the leasing revenue was up 6% a very good result considering that Leasing market across the region remains subdued.
Greater China and India paced the performance.
Like Leasing underlying strength in Property facilities and project management was offset by negative foreign exchange which translated a healthy 10% revenue gain in local currencies into flat growth in U.S.
dollar terms.
While the region exhibited good top line growth in local currency EBITDA was impacted by continued investment in the platform including headcount additions in certain markets to drive future growth a concentration of property sales commissions among higher-producing professionals and foreign currency movements.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mike who will discuss our EMEA business.
Thanks Gil.
Please turn to Slide 10.
As Bob mentioned the third quarter was strong for CBRE in EMEA with revenues up 25% on the same period in 2012.
Unlike Asia-Pacific there was no material impact from foreign currency.
This improved performance is also reflected in a 146% increase in normalized EBITDA during the period.
The quarter builds on a strong overall performance for the region this year.
Through the first 9 months of 2013 revenues were up $110 million or 16% compared to this point in 2012 and with an impressive level of EBITDA growth.
Please turn to Slide 11.
Our growth in EMEA in Q3 was broad-based.
Every one of the major business lines recorded double-digit revenue increases.
Our biggest advance was seen in property sales where we achieved a 50% increase year-on-year with notable performances in several countries but particularly in Germany and the U.K.
Our sales revenue growth exceeded the market which delivered a 21% increase overall in sales volume for the quarter.
Leasing revenue growth of 20% was equally impressive especially given the leasing markets have yet to respond to improved sentiment with overall market activity down year-on-year.
France the Netherlands and the U.K.
led our growth in Q3.
We also saw positive upside in our outsourcing businesses property facilities and property management revenue rose 19% on the back capturing more opportunities from both occupier and invested clients.
Please turn to Slide 12.
Our strategy over the past few years has been to diversify our offering to first to provide our clients with a comprehensive set of services that can meet all of their needs and secondly to reduce the impact of market cycles in our business.
As recently as 2007 we were far more dependent on our transactional-based service lines but these businesses now account for 50% of the total EMEA revenues having reduced from 67% in 2007.
With market activity increasing all business lines are growing and we continue to increase market shares.
Please turn to Slide 13.
We have a 3-pronged strategy for sustaining our growth across EMEA.
The first is to get our core traditional business lines through market share gains.
Our market analysis reveals that there is significant headroom to continue building market share in every line of business and geographical market in which we operate and our senior management teams have been challenged to grow the organization organically right across the business.
The next is to acquire best in class firms to further develop our geographic and service line footprints and to help build scale.
For example prominent openings remain in the Property Management sector which we have been actively filling through M&amp;A something I will touch on later.
Finally we have the opportunity to expand new and high-margin service lines such as a real estate finance where we see a particular opportunity in debt and equity finance and loan servicing.
That is in addition to our fast-growing prime residential business in London.
Please turn to Slide 14.
Looking in more depth to some of our core service lines.
One of the highlights for Q3 was without doubt the share gains achieved by our transactional businesses.
The third quarter of 2013 was the European investment markets' strongest third quarter since 2007.
With higher activity levels from both local and international capital sources.
Our international market coverage and footprint is particularly well-suited to today's more global capital markets and we continue to achieve significant transaction wins across the region.
You can see on the slide 3 examples of large investment transactions we completed in the United Kingdom France and Germany during Q3.
Once again we also achieved the #1 market position in investment sales in the U.K.
during the quarter.
We expect capital markets activity to remain strong due to returning investment -- investor confidence more debt availability and the fact that the institutional additional funds are increasing the amount of capital they apportion to real estate.
Please turn to Slide 15.
As just noted we also successfully grew the Leasing revenues by 20% year-on-year in Q3 largely through market share gains.
This growth was achieved despite the continued weakness in the overall leasing market.
We do expect that the market will grow and will resume its growth as we move into 2014 on the back of an improving economic environment.
In more detail -- in more developed markets such as London and Paris we have further expanded our market leadership position.
In Q3 2013 we again achieved the highest market share in the London leasing market.
The 2 large deals shown on the slide are indicative of the type of prominent leasing transactions we are currently completing in Paris and in London.
We are also focused on improving our market position in developing markets such as Warsaw where we have just taken market leadership.
Please turn to Slide 16.
Here you can see some of our EMEA and global wins in the GCS business.
In EMEA corporate outsourcing is in its infancy.
European-based companies are increasingly recognizing the benefits of relying on outside service providers to manage their real estate.
CBRE is well-positioned to capitalize on this trend.
Our global corporate services business is a premier global platform with a growing pool of professional expertise in EMEA.
Our client roster is also growing.
This year we have brought 8 new clients on board our client satisfaction scores are up and we are recruiting to strengthen teams and grow the service line across the region.
As a result we have also expanded or renewed our contracts with 9 existing customers.
Please turn to Slide 17.
Asset services sustained large-scale changes over recent years with our talent pools and on-site expertise increasing dramatically through a combination of multiple acquisitions and organic expansion.
Acquisitions we have completed this year include firms in the Czech Republic Belgium and Sweden.
This area of our business has gathered real momentum with our latest win being a premier London property 30 St.
Mary Axe better known as The Gherkin.
Our footprint in the shopping center sector also goes from strength-to-strength with CBRE now managing 198 centers across EMEA.
Two recent and significant new mandates are shown here in Sicily and in Bucharest.
We are now the largest independent manager of shopping centers in the EMEA region.
In closing we are optimistic about the future prospects for this business line as we are for our entire portfolio of services in EMEA.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Gil.
Thanks Mike.
Please turn to Slide 18.
Global Investment Management revenue rose 11% in the third quarter of 2013 to $127.3 million from $114.3 million in the third quarter of 2012.
All of the growth was attributable to a carried interest which reflects CBRE's incremental revenue earned as portfolios are liquidated at values that exceed return thresholds.
Asset management fees and rental revenue from consolidated real estate assets were lower largely because we have been selling assets in the portfolio and because of the internalization of management of a non-traded REIT.
Our fees associated with those REITs ended in the second quarter of 2013.
Under U.S.
GAAP accounting we have already expensed the compensation cost for our fund employees associated with carried interest revenue.
As a consequence the carried interest revenue we generated had an outsized positive impact on EBITDA during the third quarter of 2013.
This impact was partly offset by the previously mentioned lowered asset management fees and rental revenue due to the asset sales and the REIT internationalization.
Carried interest is integral to our Investment Management business and is a byproduct of the success of our investment programs.
As you can see we have earned carried interest in more than half of the year since 2005.
However carried interest is not realized in regular intervals as the timing is dictated by the macro market environment and fund life cycles.
These 2 factors are now conspiring positively to produce significant carried interest revenue approximately $30 million in the third quarter of 2013.
We expect similarly sizable carried interest revenue in the fourth quarter of 2013 some of which might have been spread over future years but for the strong current market environment.
As a result carried interest revenue will diminish significantly in 2014 reducing year-over-year EBITDA comparisons in this business.
Our EBITDA reconciliation table for the Investment Management business is on Slide 19.
As of September 30 2013 we maintained a cumulative accrual of carried interest compensation expense of approximately $42 million $36 million of which pertains to anticipated future carried interest revenue.
For the third quarter of 2013 we recognized a net carried interest incentive compensation expense reversal of $2.3 million.
In the third quarter -- in the second quarter of 2013 we started to normalize carried interest competition expense for new funds where the related carried interest revenue has yet to be recognized.
During this quarter and 9 months ended September 30 2013 we normalized $800 000 and $3.5 million respectively.
We will continue this practice for new funds going forward.
However there were $3.1 million of carried interest compensation expense reversal in the quarter that we did not normalize because it pertained to an existing front [ph] for which carried interest competition expense have been previously recorded.
Please turn to Slide 20.
Global Investment Management Assets Under Management or AUM totaled $87.6 billion at the end of the third quarter of 2013 a decrease of $4.4 billion from year-end 2012.
Included in the current AUM is $22 billion of listed securities.
The decrease from year-end 2012 was primarily driven by the aforementioned property sales.
Property dispositions totaled $7.4 billion due to first 9 months of 2013.
This was partly offset by acquisitions of $3 billion and positive foreign currency effects of $500 million.
The value of the investment portfolios including net outflows in the securities business decreased by $500 million.
Year-to-date 2013 we have raised new equity capital of approximately $2.5 billion in the direct real estate business and had approximately $3.2 billion of equity capital to deploy at the end of the quarter.
Our core investment in this business at the end of the quarter totaled $183.1 million.
Please turn to Slide 21.
Revenue for the Development Services segment totaled $12.6 million in the third quarter of 2013 versus $17.8 million in third quarter of 2012.
The lower amount resulted from property dispositions which reduced rental revenue.
However normalized EBIT improved to $6 million due to higher earnings from property sales primarily reflected in equity earnings.
Development project and process totaled $5.2 billion up $500 million from the second quarter and $1 billion from year-end 2012.
This is the highest level of combined activity since the fourth quarter of 2008 reflecting gradually improving fundamentals.
The inventory of pipeline deals totaled $1.6 billion down $100 million from the second quarter of 2013 and $500 million from year-end 2012.
Our equity core investments at the end of the third quarter of 2013 in the Development Services business totaled $80.8 million and our recourse debt stood at $17 million.
Please turn to Slide 22 which shows our liquidity position at September 30 2013 as well as our amortization and debt maturities scheduled for all outstanding corporate debt.
Our March 2013 refinancing transactions included amending our credit agreement to provide for $715 million of the term loans and to establish a $1.2 billion revolving credit facility.
We also sold $800 million of new 10-year 5% fixed rate senior unsecured notes.
In June 2013 we paid down our $450 million 11.625% senior subordinated notes which was due in 2017.
We can see here the benefit of these actions.
We have extended maturities far into the future with little debt coming due for 3 years.
We also reduced total corporate debt by about $500 million.
We believe that these actions leave us well-positioned to make strategic investments to drive further growth with increased financial flexibility to be opportunistic and continue navigating an uncertain recovery.
Please turn to Slide 23.
Excluding cash within consolidated funds and other entities not available for company use and excluding our non-recourse real estate loans and our mortgage brokerage warehouse facilities our total net debt at the end of the third quarter of 2013 was approximately $1.5 billion.
Net debt is down $309 million from the third quarter of 2012.
At the end of the third quarter of 2013 our weighted average interest rate was approximately 5%.
This is about 60 basis points down from year-end 2012.
Our leverage ratio on a covenant basis as of the end of the third quarter of 2013 stood at 1.46x on a trailing 12-month basis.
Our total company net debt to trailing 12-month normalized EBITDA stood at 1.5x.
This is a marked improvement from 2.1x at the end of the third quarter of 2012.
I will now turn the call back over to Bob for closing remarks.
Thanks Gil.
Please turn to Slide 24.
All in all we are very pleased with our performance in the third quarter and through the first 9 months of the year.
Like in everyone in business we would like to see a more robust global economic expansion and our policymakers in Washington D.C.
finally unite around a pro-growth agenda.
Nevertheless CBRE remains well-positioned to continue driving strong revenue growth in the sector's best margins while making major strategic investments in people and technology 2 critical components of our long-term success plan as well as in continued in-fill M&amp;A.
We expect the revenue improvement we achieved in the third quarter to continue through year-end.
Property sales activity should continue to be healthy.
Global capital flows into real estate remain strong and increasingly investors are expanding their horizon into secondary markets and secondary assets in search of yield.
This is very good for us given the breadth of our market coverage.
Steady double-digit growth should sustain in our occupier outsourcing business where we see a robust pipeline of corporate and healthcare space users turning over their real estate work to outside service providers.
Reflecting this last week we signed one of our largest ever outsourcing engagements with JPMorgan Chase.
CBRE will provide the bank with facilities management and brokerage services across of the U.S.
Canada and Latin America as well as project management services in the U.S.
and Asia-Pacific.
We expect improved Leasing performance fueled by combination of market lift and share gains resulting from our increased focus on this business.
And further significant carried interest contributions will underpin growth in Investment Management during the fourth quarter.
In terms of challenges tempered economic growth and the resulting occupier caution along with foreign currency effects will continue to contain our performance in Asia-Pacific and the mortgage servicing business in the Americas will remain under pressure as a result of the new regulatory limits on GSE lending.
Considering all of this we continue to expect normal -- normalized EBITDA margin improvement for the full year.
We also anticipate that we will achieve full year adjusted earnings per share of between $1.40 and $1.45 consistent with our overall outlook at the beginning of the year.
Before we take your questions I would like to take a moment for a few brief announcements.
The first is the opening a month ago of our new global headquarters at 400 South Hope Street in downtown Los Angeles.
The office has been designed based on alternative workplace strategy principles and sets a new standard for collaborative work environments in our industry.
Congratulations to our work-play strategy and L.A.
area teams.
Next I want to acknowledge Nick Kormeluk who has served as our Vice President of Investor Relations since 2007.
Nick will be ending his association with CBRE effective at the end of the year.
As many of you may know Nick transitioned from employee to consultant in early 2009 and he now plans to focus 100% of his energies on is growing consulting practice.
We thank Nick for his service to CBRE and wish him the best of luck with his future endeavors.
Going forward Steve Iaco our Director of Corporate Communications will serve as our liaison along with Gil to the financial community.
Steve is a 20-year veteran of CBRE and its predecessor companies who possesses deep knowledge of our operations and strong relationships up and down the organization.
I know that you'll enjoy interacting with Steve.
Finally I would like to remind all of you that our annual business review day will be held at our New York City office on November 21.
If you have not received the details please get in touch with Nick or Steve.
I look forward to seeing you there.
With that operator we'll open the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question from the line of Anthony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could tie together -- you mentioned in your comments the end mid-to high single-digit revenue growth if you look at your number for the first 9 months you're already at 9% to 10%.
So it suggests a little bit of a slowdown perhaps in the fourth quarter implicitly is what I'm gathering.
But when I look at what your guidance is it suggests about a $0.10 year-over-year pickup in earnings.
So I'm just trying to tie those together.
Anthony it's Gil.
I think you're reading too much into it.
Mid- to single-high-digits is exactly what it says.
So we've got a range of mid- to high single digits right? I think that hasn't changed.
So I wouldn't be concerned about that.
Definitely we don't expect a slowdown in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then in terms of the pickup though year-over-year in bottom [ph] on EPS how much do you think you'll get in carried interests in 4Q? Anthony we're not going to disclose the number.
But what we will say is that what is it in the prepared remarks was similar sizable.
So that means at least as much as in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you talk about just the cost structure and just how much these technology initiatives and the people and so forth that you're investing in are adding or put differently maybe what the impact on your EBITDA margins are? Can you put some parameters around that? Yes certainly.
So what we said and I need to put a bit of context around this.
As we said at the beginning of the year or earlier in the year we gave an indication that we expected net spend to be around $40 million.
The actual spend on investment would be greater than that offset by savings in other areas that we knew we would get.
So in essence we were substituting lesser quality spend if you will for higher quality spend i.e.
for investment.
So it was very programmatic and we were not free spending in terms of investment but rather self-funding at least some of that investment.
That all would net to a investment amount of $40 million for the year.
We've not gotten into tracking against that $40 million but what I will say qualitatively is through the 9 months we're probably a little bit behind.
Meaning not behind on our investment but actually a little bit ahead on our savings.
But I don't want to get into exactly what those numbers are because then we'll be in a situation like we've been in the past where we're chasing our tail.
So I will just tell you that qualitatively I think we're doing just fine relative to that net bogey.
Research Division</strong> But if -- and just -- maybe I'm trying to oversimplify but if I were to just take the $40 million and look at sort of your annual -- your rough annual revenues is it simple as saying it's call it roughly 60 -- 60 basis point drag on EBITDA margins? 50 to 60.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as we look out does that go away or is this money that you expect to get a return on up in revenue or do actual like OpEx go down? So you said a lot there.
Clearly we were investing -- we're expecting a return.
So clearly there will be some revenue.
Again we're not talking as you know about a very major effort -- at $40 million on a significant -- significant business is not that much.
But we do expect a return.
A good portion of that will then be in the run rate right? So if investment in people for example will stay there are some items that are onetime in nature on systems and so forth that once they're spent they won't recur.
So not the full $40 million in and of itself will be run rate.
A good portion of it will be.
But we have not yet completed our budgets for 2014.
And when we do and we know what that number is run rate plus perhaps additional onetime for next year perhaps not.
We'll give you a clear number probably on the next earnings call as to what we expect that equivalent number to be for 2014.
Anthony this is Bob.
Let me add a little bit to what Gil said.
In general I think that you should expect to see us on kind of an ongoing basis escalate our investments in technology and people relative to where we've been not to the point where we're going to yield on our priority of having the industry's best margins.
And in this environment as you know this year we expect to expand those margins by 50 basis points.
We'll see how next year goes.
We may expand it again next year.
But we are with regard to technology and certain targeted expenses with people we are escalating our expenses.
And that's on a net basis by the way.
We've also got as Gil said a targeted program that we put together for some cost savings to offset a portion of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last question on Investment Management.
I think it was $90.8 million I don't have the slide in front of me in terms of your base fees Is that a decent run rate at this AUM going forward or is there any more impact from some of the sales or I think you said you had internalized management in one of the private REITS or something? There are no additional privatizations or internalizations that we're aware of.
So I'm not going to go to so far to say it's a decent run rate because we expect and hopefully and ultimately AUM growth.
But it is a more normalized fee so assets under management.
We have a comparable quarter Q3 '13 versus Q3 '12 which was not the case prior to.
And I'm going to add to that Anthony.
We now expect -- we've gone through an aggressive disposition program.
We have a sizable value-added business.
We also have the sizable core asset business in these gateway markets where we thought it was particularly opportunity to sell assets.
So the combination of those 2 led us to dispositions of $7 billion-plus during the course of this year.
We think that activity will taper off now and that in fact that we'll start net investing next year.
Our capital raise activity in the third quarter was 50% higher than the first and second quarters combined.
We expect that capital raise activity to increase again in the fourth quarter and we expect next year to be significantly higher than this year.
So we're going to have a lot of dry powder.
We will work through that disposition phase and we feel like that there's an opportunity to grow that base [ph] of AUM next year.
Our next question from the line of Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I'm splitting hairs a little bit too thin here but last quarter I felt like the language around the EPS range was a little more maybe bullish i.e.
exceeding the top end given the impact to carried interest.
It sounds like you backed off that a little bit or maybe I'm splitting hairs too much or is it just the GSE stuff was unintended dilution to profits? Yes.
The way I would answer that Brandon is we don't foresee an upside to the full year range of $1.40 to $1.45 mostly because of the GSE servicing slow down.
And so all we're doing is returning to our additional and unqualified guidance.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That makes sense.
So maybe as a transition there given that the GSEs are still trying to figure out what they're doing from a number of perspectives but in particular what the scorecards are going to look like for next year.
How do we think about the impact during the fourth quarter? Or maybe in a longer-term basis could this be a headwind for 2 quarters 4 quarters any sense of how that GSE scorecard may come up? Yes I can comment on the fourth quarter but you said it we don't know the picture for 2014.
It's really not determined at this point.
We'll be better qualified to talk about that obviously on the next call or maybe even prior to once the government themselves figure out what they're going to do.
But in terms of the fourth quarter if we -- based on what we know right now and based on the mandate of reducing volumes by 10% we expect that we'll have an impact of maybe a little bit less than this quarter but in that $10 million to $15 million range year-over-year.
So a similar slightly lower negative impact versus Q4 2012.
And we know that because the mandate is to reduce volumes by 10% on the year.
We were over that through June 30 and we were perhaps under that in the third quarter and we do know that Fannie and Freddie have said that they maybe have overshot the market a bit in the third quarter would ease up in the fourth such that they don't get to volumes that are greater than 10% less than the full year 2012.
So there's perhaps a little bit of upside which leads me to say that I think the impact on that quarter negative will be a little better than it was in Q3.
Hopefully that's clear.
But to be redundant here Brandon you weren't splitting hairs.
And that was contemplated in the way we gave guidance and our release.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That makes sense.
Given the -- what feels like a pretty decent rebound in growth rates in EMEA maybe some thoughts on investing in more systems more people more support people.
I would imagine you guys in the past year 1.5 years even maybe 2 years have been a little reluctant to put any capital work there given how little growth was going on.
But with growth recovery any thoughts of getting a little more aggressive in terms of going after market share? And then I guess at the sideline of that is there must be an assumption within that answer of sustainability of these kind of growth rates out EMEA the next several quarters if not longer? Brandon obviously we're going to have Mike Strong answer that question.
But I want to comment on something globally in response to what you just said.
Under the leadership of our Global President of Brokerage Jack Durburg and our Global President of Capital Markets Chris Ludeman we have an aggressive program in place in all regions of the world to add talent to our businesses.
So we haven't been sitting back waiting for the markets to get to a certain point before we did that.
We believe we have headroom for growth organically in all regions of the world.
We think it's starting to come through pretty nicely in the numbers.
And that decision was made by our Global Operating Committee that Gil Mike Strong and myself all sit on independent of the comings and goings of results in the current quarter or current year.
If I may make a more general comment about Europe.
If you look what's happening in economies you'll see that of the more established such as Germany and the U.K.
the growth the consensus growth rates being put against those countries are now increasing and have increased a lot over the last quarter.
And if you look forward the view of the next 3 to 4 years is that those countries will grow 2% possibly even 3%.
If you look at the growing areas of the Nordics CEE Turkey their estimates around growth rates of 3% to 4%.
And even in the more troubled places such as Italy Spain Netherlands and France they're all turning positive with 1% to 1.5% to 2% growth assumptions estimates over the next 3 to 4 years.
So we've lived with declining economic environments for 5 years declining demand for space and obviously a relatively weak investment market.
So I think we're now seeing -- you can see from the numbers that the level of investment in capital coming into the European market has materially increased.
Whilst it was originally focused on London and some of the German cities it is now much more broadly based.
The U.K.
regional markets have improved.
There is much better demand for the southern European markets Italy and Spain.
And we do foresee that with the weight of capital coming in that there's -- every prospect of that will continue.
And with recovering economic environment we do see the demand for space will turn positive.
As you'll see it's -- we think it's probably hit a low point and will turn positive with vacancy rates coming in.
So against that to answer your question we have been investing quite materially over the last 1 to 2 years in headcount.
We've put substantial numbers of people into the -- into several of our markets.
We're continuing to do that as Bob referenced.
We're also expanding in the non-transaction areas in Property Management particularly and in the outsourcing businesses both of which are growing at a brisk pace.
So yes we're out there hiring the very best people we get our hands on selectively doing M&amp;A.
and we'll see every prospect for that will continue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final one for me.
I think last quarter you called out Brazil as a bit of an issue just from an operating leverage perspective.
Maybe scale the headwind if there was one this quarter relative to what it was last and what the outlook for that part of your business becoming a let's call it not a headwind or potentially a tailwind from a margin perspective.
Yes Brandon.
So in the third quarter we did not have issues that we had in Q2.
I think it was anomalous to Q2; 1 and 3 were good quarters for us in Brazil 2 was not.
Year-to-date we're a little better and the forecast for the year on Brazil in particular I would say is flat to slightly better.
It's highly dependent on transactions and there are large capital markets transactions that happen in that market.
And if one flips that can have an impact on that particular market.
And in fact as we saw even on our overall results that bakes [ph] some of those transactions.
We have a question from David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering how sustainable you think the acceleration you're seeing in Americas leasing is.
Just wondering that because we haven't seen a -- certainly an uptick from the property owners in terms of rents and that sort of thing.
David I'll answer that.
We have really focused on growing our Leasing business around the world and specifically in the Americas.
And we expect to see good momentum a momentum ahead of the market certainly through the balance of this year.
And we're putting our plan together for next year.
And my guess is when that plan is all said and done we will have expected ourselves to grow market share again next year.
So that area is receiving a lot of focus from us.
Research Division</strong> Maybe give us [ph] a rough idea maybe what your headcount is up? Yes.
Those numbers -- we don't publish our headcount numbers.
Research Division</strong> But safe to say you're adding net new people to grow ahead of the market in America's Leasing? We are adding a significant number of people and we are doing 2 things: we're adding people in and we're switching out people in a number of markets that where we had the opportunity to bring in better talent.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if you had to -- maybe it's particularly in -- maybe not to get too detailed but Americas leasing in terms of the vacancy rate it continues to tick down.
Absorptions continue to be pretty positive when do we hit an inflection point where occupiers feel the need to take that additional year or take that additional amount of square footage? Well I think we're already seeing some of that now.
The fact of the matter is there's -- rates are coming up occupancies are coming up and sophisticated users and we advise a lot of them are attuned to that.
And they believe that the space is going to get more expensive particularly the better space.
And there's some aggressive action to secure space in the environment we're in today.
And we have a question from Mitch Germain with JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> Bob you guys made a strategic acquisition in the U.S.
in the retail segment.
I'm curious if that's one of your offerings you're looking to targeting for growth now? Mitch this is going to sound glib and I apologize for that but retail is one of the product lines we offer and we have very pointedly said that we expect to be able to grow organically and through M&amp;A all of our product lines in all our geographies.
We like the businesses we're in we like the geographies we're in and we're aggressive about growing all those businesses in all those geographies.
We happen to think we have an exceptional opportunity in retail in the United States.
We have a very good leader in that business.
We have a bunch of regional leaders geographic leaders who have identified opportunities for us to grow.
And the situation in Philadelphia with FAMECO was really a nice example of that kind of opportunity.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just curious about year-over-year trends and investment sales.
I think more so domestically obviously we had some benefit of tax-motivated selling.
Are you still pretty positive on the abilities to sustain that growth rate in 4Q? We think there's going to be solid growth opportunity in investment sales in all 3 regions of the world in the fourth quarter.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to Todd Lukasik with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First on leasing in Europe.
You mentioned that sentiment there is improving and the outlook for economic growth is improving.
Is that something you think is going to show up in increased leasing volumes in general in the market perhaps as early as the next quarter or is that something that's going to take longer to play out there? And then just as a follow-up are there any particular factors to which you would attribute your share gains in Europe? Values being volume as opposed to value price? Yes? Research Division</strong> Yes the leasing volume.
I think what we're seeing in the prime markets of say London and Paris and the German cities and for prime retail and prime logistics is the leasing demand has picked up quite materially.
We're starting to see that moving into some of the markets that have been more depressed in turn economically.
There's the status [ph] -- you're seeing signs of demand in Spain some of the Italian cities the Netherlands and Belgium.
So generally demand is picking up.
And against the backdrop of historically low supply some markets are also now coming under pressure in terms of pricing pressure upwards.
And that's particularly true in parts of London and some of the German cities as well.
So I think to that degree it happened.
In terms of how we secured increased market share I think it's fundamentally -- it's all down to the people we have and the teams of people we have in the markets in which they operate and their ability to connect up the region and connect up globally to make sure that we can access national international tenants.
And that's something we concentrate on a great deal right across our organization.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question on investment sales in the U.S.
and the potential impact of higher interest rates.
Obviously there's been a rise in rates this year that hasn't really seem to affect sales volumes yet.
But I'm wondering from your perspective if maybe there's a threshold level of interest rates or a magnitude of change in those rates over a short time period that might kind of put the brakes on investment sales where both sides of the transaction are waiting to figure out where the price settles and what your thoughts are on that in terms of sustaining strong investment sales volumes in the U.S.
in particular? Yes.
There's probably a threshold out there somewhere but we're not foreseeing it anytime soon.
We think the more likely situation is if interest rates tick up it will be because the economy has gotten better.
As the economy gets better what will -- what we've already started to see and what we'll see more of is that activity picks up on property sales in what are typically called second-tier markets and second-tier assets which by the way still very very substantial business centers and very substantial assets that up to this point had not yet been captured in that kind of activity.
So we think that kind of circumstance will offset any impact of higher interest rates based on anything we foresee now.
Now there could be again a threshold out there somewhere that we're not seeing.
The other thing that is always worth keeping in mind when you think about real estate assets now is the liquidity and the transparency associated with real estate assets is appealing in the market environment we're in today.
And also the fact that they're considered to be a hedge against inflation which everybody knows.
So we're not concerned about the circumstance that you're describing as possible.
And obviously we and the market haven't seen that playing out at all.
And I'll turn it back to our speakers for closing remarks.
If that's all the questions we appreciate everybody joining us today.
And we will talk to you again when we release our year-end information.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this will conclude our conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T's executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the CBRE First Quarter Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder today’s call will be recorded.
And I would like to turn the conference over to our host Steve Iaco with Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to CBRE’s first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
About an hour ago we issued a press release announcing our Q1 2014 financial results.
This release is available on our homepage of our website at cbre.com.
This conference call is being webcast and is available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Also available is a presentation slide deck which you can use to follow along with the prepared remarks.
An audio archive of the webcast and PDF version of the slide presentation will be posted on the website later today and a transcript of the call will be posted tomorrow.
Please turn to the slide labeled forward-looking statements.
This presentation contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These include statements regarding CBRE’s future growth momentum operations financial performance business outlook and ability to successfully integrate businesses we have acquired with our existing operations.
These statements should be considered to be estimates only and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Except to the extent required by securities laws we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forward-looking statements you may hear today.
For a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any estimates that you may hear today please refer to our first quarter earnings report filed on Form 8-K and our current Annual Report on Form 10-K in particular any discussion of risk factors and forward-looking statements which are filed with the SEC and available at the SEC’s website sec.gov.
During the course of this presentation we may make certain statements that refer to non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations.
As required by these regulations we have provided reconciliations of those measures to what we believe are the most directly comparable GAAP measures those reconciliations are going to be found within the appendix of this presentation.
Please turn to Slide 3.
Participating with me today are Bob Sulentic our President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Groch our Chief Financial Officer; and Gil Borok our Deputy Chief Financial Officer who will join us for the Q&amp;A period.
Please turn to Slide 4 as I turn the call over to Bob.
Thank you Steve.
CBRE had a very strong start to 2014 with excellent growth on the top and bottom lines as you have seen in our press release.
These results reflect the ongoing investments we have made in professional talent and resources to further support our people in creating value for our clients.
Jim will take you through the results in detail but I will briefly hit a few highlights.
First we achieved significant growth in all three global regions.
EMEA set a brisk pace with double-digit organic growth in every major business line.
We were pleased to see activity pickup in Europe as investor and business confidence has improved in step with the recovering economies.
In particular we saw continued strength in the United Kingdom where our efforts to diversify our business lines and accelerate growth continue to pay dividends.
The acquisition of Norland Managed Services which we will discuss in detail later was a key contributor to our results in EMEA and supplemented strong organic growth across business lines in the region.
We also sustained double-digit growth in the Americas our largest business segment.
This resulted from empowering our sector leading professionals with increasingly differentiated resources to expand our client base and grow market share.
Our Asia-Pacific business also performed well in the first quarter.
Despite continued occupier and investor caution we generated 18% revenue growth in local currency fueled by property sales.
However like the past few quarters weakened currencies in the region served to temper our growth rate when translated into U.S.
dollars.
On the M&amp;A front after acquiring 11 companies in 2013 we completed two infill acquisitions in the first quarter of this year one in the U.S.
and one in Europe and have an active pipeline of attractive acquisition candidates.
Please turn to Slide 5.
We continue to benefit from the measured investments we are making to support our professionals as they work together to provide integrated service to our clients.
This is central to our growth strategy and helped us build market share and enjoy strong growth in nearly all business lines.
Occupier outsourcing revenue which includes certain transaction revenue increased 61% on a global basis.
Even before the significant contributions from Norland we achieved double-digit growth of 12% in this business line globally.
Norland is included in our results for the first time following the completion of its acquisition in late December 2013.
In terms of new business Q1 2014 was one of our most active periods ever for new occupier outsourcing contracts and expansions.
Global leasing revenue grew at a double-digit rate for the third consecutive quarter as we made additional gains in market share.
All three regions showed strong growth led by EMEA.
Global property sales revenue rose 27% reflecting an active global investment market and CBRE’s central role in facilitating cross-border capital flows.
While revenue rose strongly in all regions growth in EMEA was particularly robust.
Growth in commercial mortgage brokerage revenue improved despite the decline as expected in lending activity with the U.S.
government-sponsored enterprises or GSEs.
This decline was more than offset by increased U.S.
loan originations to other capital sources and sharply higher loan sales activity.
All of this added up to robust financial performance including growth of 26% in revenue and 56% in adjusted EPS.
Needless to say we are very pleased to deliver this kind of growth to our shareholders and we thank our people for their hard work in bringing about such a positive outcome.
Now I will turn the call over to Jim for a more in-depth review of the quarter.
Thank you Bob.
Before we move from Slide #5 I would like to highlight that 58% of our revenue this quarter came from contractual sources mostly from Global Corporate Services which is our occupier outsourcing business and from Asset Services.
Adding leasing which is largely recurring and you encompass 80% of the $1.9 billion total revenue for the quarter.
This reflects the material shift in our business mix over the last several years as we have moved toward a more comprehensive mix of integrated services for our clients.
To understand this shift it is important to know that the buying pattern for large multinational clients has changed materially over the last several years.
By example in connection with the typical new large contract we often onboard hundreds of client’s in-house real estate professionals from across the globe.
Previously these employees of such clients would have engaged dozens of smaller real estate service providers including brokerage firms facility managers project managers and consultants on an as needed basis.
Today they will contract with us typically under a five-year agreement.
They count on CBRE to manage their real estate activities globally in a much more strategic and cost effective way.
As the global leader in each of our lines of business we are well-positioned to serve clients that demand comprehensive globally integrated outsourcing solution.
To put this into perspective in 2002 our total company revenues were about $1.35 billion.
Last year our top 30 clients alone totaled $1.3 billion of revenue.
Please turn to Slide 6 for an overview of total company performance.
As Bob mentioned Q1 2014 was a period of excellent growth.
Our 26% revenue increase reflected strong organic growth as well as contributions from our acquisition of Norland.
Excluding Norland consolidated revenues rose 11% or 12% in local currency.
Due to the nature of the services provided by Norland we experienced an aggregate shift in cost classification from operating expenses to cost of services.
As a result cost of services increased as a percentage of revenue while operating expenses decreased as a percentage of revenue for the quarter.
Without the impact of Norland for the regional services businesses cost of services as a percentage of revenue was essentially flat and operating expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased approximately 60 basis points.
In Q1 2014 we benefited from a $16.2 million decline in interest expense largely because of our refinancing activities early last year.
Depreciation and amortization expense on a normalized basis rose by $6.9 million.
This increase was primarily driven by capital expenditures aimed squarely at strengthening our ability to serve clients.
The normalized tax rate for the quarter was 35% and the full year rate is expected to be about the same.
Normalized EBITDA in Q1 increased 23% over the prior year quarter.
If we excluded Norland normalized EBITDA increased 13%.
On a GAAP basis earnings per share rose 82% to $0.20 a share for Q1 after adjusting for selected items EPS increased 56% to $0.25 a share for Q1.
Please turn to Slide 7 regarding the Americas.
We continue to produce strong growth in the Americas.
Overall revenue increased 10% for Q1 or 11% in local currency.
Property sales were a big growth catalyst.
We are capitalizing on moves we have made to strengthen our team along with the increased capital migration into real estate.
This is evidenced by our very strong 38% growth rate in the U.S.
partially offset by declines in Canada and Latin America resulting in a 17% first quarter revenue increase overall for the Americas or 19% when measured in local currency.
In leasing our investment in upgrading and expanding our brokerage ranks continues to drive growth.
As the global leader we attract the best in call brokerage professionals.
Revenue grew double-digits for the third consecutive quarter increasing by 10% or 11% in local currency.
This growth is noteworthy considering the macroeconomic environment where leasing remains uneven.
Finally Global Corporate Services or GCS and Asset Services revenue rose 9% or 10% in local currency.
This increase reflects strong new business wins and contract expansions in GCS during 2013.
Please turn to Slide 8 regarding EMEA.
EMEA was our fastest growing segment during Q1.
The addition of Norland helped to increase revenue by 127%.
Norland had a strong quarter generating total revenue of $217 million.
However even without this contribution EMEA revenue growth was a robust 32%.
Property sales surged 61% as compared with overall market growth estimated at 26%.
Growth was driven by rebounding investment activity across the continent including in the Netherlands Poland and Spain as well as continued strength in Germany and the UK.
Leasing in EMEA also performed well achieving a 16% increase in revenue.
This reflected market share gains when compared to an estimated 6% increase in market volumes across the region.
The UK drove this performance.
GCS and Asset Services growth was strong even without the benefit of Norland.
Excluding Norland we achieved 30% revenue growth as we added new clients.
Please turn to Slide 9 regarding Asia-Pacific.
Our performance in Asia Pacific was strong especially in light of the tepid macroeconomic environment in the region.
Overall revenue rose 18% in local currency and 8% when translated into U.S.
dollars reflecting weaker currencies in the region.
Like the Americas and EMEA we saw significant property sales growth in Asia-Pacific.
Sales revenue was up 38% in local currency and 26% in U.S.
dollars.
Australia Japan and Singapore were notably strong.
This performance compares favorably to market volumes which were up modestly in Q1.
Leasing revenue rose 13% in local currency and 5% in U.S.
dollars.
The increase was driven by Greater China India and Japan.
We are very pleased with this growth at a time when the regions occupiers particularly multinationals remain hesitant to expand.
Strong growth in GCS and Asset Services was tempered by foreign exchange effects.
Overall revenue growth of 12% in local currency was trimmed to just 1% in U.S.
dollars.
Outsourcing continues to build momentum as it is increasingly embraced in this part of the world.
Please turn to Slide 10 regarding Global Investment Management 2014 is a transition year for our Global Investment Management business as we pivot from harvesting gains last year to deploying recently raised capital this year.
As you know in 2013 we sold nearly $10 billion of assets exited the management of a private REIT and are currently absorbing lower market fees in Continental Europe as a result we had lower revenue and EBITDA in the quarter.
Our ongoing successful fund raising reflects the underlying strength of the business and the strong investment results we have achieved for our clients.
Following $5 billion of capital raised in 2013 we attracted an additional $1.2 billion of new equity in Q1.
And only since the end of the quarter have raised approximately $1 billion more of equity.
We now have approximately $5.3 billion of equity to deploy.
AUM increased for the second straight quarter rising by $1.1 billion from year end 2013 to $90.2 billion.
This increase was driven by property acquisitions of $1 billion higher portfolio values of $700 million and positive foreign currency movement of $100 million.
Property dispositions totaled $700 million for the quarter.
Our co-investments in this business totaled $159.8 million at the end of Q1.
Please turn to Slide 11 regarding our Development Services business.
Revenue for the Development Services segment plus equity earnings and net gains on the disposition of real estate totaled $32 million in Q1 2014 up 34% from Q1 2013.
Normalized EBITDA rose significantly from $7.8 million in Q1 of 2013 to $11.6 million for Q1 2014.
We completed a major asset sale earlier in the year than expected in Q1 and another major sale originally scheduled for Q2 will likely be delayed until later in the year as such Q2 EBITDA for this segment is likely to be lower than expected due to timing.
Development projects in process totaled $5 billion at quarter end up $100 million from year end 2013.
The inventory of pipeline deals totaled $1.8 billion up $300 million from year end 2013.
Our equity co-investments in the Development Services business totaled $87.6 million at the end of Q1 2014 while our total recourse debt for this business stood at only $7.7 million.
Please turn to Slide 12 regarding Global Corporate Services as Bob mentioned our occupier outsourcing business also known as GCS continues to sustain strong momentum in all three regions.
Corporations healthcare providers government entities and other institutions are increasingly turning to CBRE for truly integrated real estate solutions.
As a result we are gaining new clients and expanding relationships at an impressive clip.
In Q1 2014 we signed outsourcing contracts with 25 new clients and expanded our service offering with 24 existing customers.
We are particularly pleased with our growth outside the U.S.
as real estate outsourcing increasingly becomes an established global practice.
And Norland acquisition dovetails perfectly with this trend.
This is a high growth largely recurring business with long-term contracts and a prestigious sticky customer base.
It gives us a best in class capability to self perform building technical engineering for our occupier clients in Europe.
Norland exceeded growth targets for its first quarter as part of CBRE as important this business has also expanded our integrated service offering in EMEA and enhanced cross selling opportunities.
In only the first few months of integration we have brought Norland into several CBRE managed accounts including AT&amp;T AIG AON and Travelers.
We see tremendous upside for Norland as we do for our entire GCS business around the world.
Now please turn to Slide 13 for Bob's closing remarks.
Thank you Jim.
CBRE’s strengths and the results we are generating for our clients were clearly evident in our performance during the opening quarter of 2014.
Most of our business lines performed materially better than the market and continue to have good momentum.
In particular property sales were significantly stronger than usual for our first quarter.
While we expect this business line to continue to post strong double digit year-over-year increases in all three global regions we also expect to see these growth rates moderate to more sustainable levels particularly as Europe moves through its early stage recovery and same quarter comparisons become more difficult as the year progresses.
In commercial mortgage brokerage the lower volumes with the GSEs are likely to remain a challenge this year.
But as we saw in Q1 we have increased our activity with other capital sources.
Leasing for the quarter performed well reflecting the strength of our platform and our professionals and we expect this trend to continue.
However we note that the leasing markets are generally recovering slowly and unevenly around the globe.
We expect to sustain strong double-digit growth from our occupier outsourcing business as adoption rates continue to improve and we deepen our market penetration.
Norland has added an exciting new dimension to this business in Europe and provides for enhanced growth prospects and long-term contractual revenue.
On the principal side of our business for the full year we continue to expect our investment management and development businesses combined to perform roughly in line with 2013 before taking into account carried interest.
As for our performance in Q1 and what it might say about the rest of the year we expect more upside than downside to our 2014 guidance.
As we have often said the first quarter is a relatively small portion of the year’s earnings and is not an adequate barometer of full year performance.
We will face more challenging year-over-year earnings comparison in the quarters ahead.
Therefore at the present time we are not updating our earnings outlook for full year 2014.
All told we had an excellent first quarter.
Continued measured investments in our people and platform and strong performance on behalf of our clients should enable ongoing market share gains and strong long-term growth.
Excellent liquidity cash flow and a conservative balance sheet position us to continue to expand our global leadership position for the benefit of our clients employees and shareholders.
With that operator we will open the line for questions.
So operator? (Operator Instructions) And our first question will be from the line of Anthony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon actually and nice quarter.
In terms of investment sales and leasing things were very strong.
Can you talk about just how much of that was perhaps share gain versus the market environment really changing on you and just looking better and what that pipeline might look like right now? Anthony this is Bob.
We certainly experienced a very positive market on the capital markets side.
We do think we took share around the world.
In the U.S.
we were – we kind of performed with market in terms of market share but in EMEA and Asia-Pacific on the capital markets or sales side our growth was significantly higher than market.
In the U.S.
and in EMEA both we believe our leasing growth was significantly higher than the market not good statistics on leasing growth in Asia-Pacific we had some nice growth ourself 13% in local currency.
We believe we outperformed the market but it’s hard to get good statistics over there on that.
But in general capital markets strong we performed well leasing markets sluggish we felt like we performed well relative to market in both.
So the outlook for leasing putting aside share still feels from what you are saying like it hasn’t like not a big change there in terms of improvements? We don’t think a big change from what we talked about at year end.
Okay.
And then in terms of spending money on the business investing in the business anyway to put some dollars around that in terms of where you are there right now or how much more there maybe to go? I understand there is always something to do but it seemed like over the course of last year you had ramped that up a bit.
Just want to try to understand where we are right now? Well I am going to split that into two pieces.
One piece being kind of our operating expenditures in support of running the business on an ongoing basis and then one our capital expenditures M&amp;A and so forth.
And I will let Jim answer the latter and I will answer the former.
But we talked last year about incremental expenditures.
We have largely caught up with the things that we felt like we need to catch up on.
And now what you are going to see going forward is that we are spending in support of the growth of our business kind of at the rate we think we need to spend on an ongoing basis.
And then Jim you want to hit the capital expenditures? Yes sure Bob.
On CapEx really I would say same guidance that we gave at year end.
We were expecting to be somewhere up to $185 million in CapEx for the year.
M&amp;A Bob you mentioned M&amp;A M&amp;A is really dependent on the opportunities we continue to be very active but we haven’t given an estimate on what we expect to spend there.
Okay thanks.
Okay.
And then just on Norland any ability to note like what return on invested capital looks like or just how that’s coming in relative to the underwriting? Well in general we – and I will let Jim comment on how we underwrite deals but we have a number of measures that we use that you would consider pretty typical measures IRR accretion and so on and so forth.
Certainly that deal met and exceeded those parameters when we underwrote it and the deal – the businesses performed quite well.
They had a stronger first quarter than we expected particularly with the clients they on-boarded good clients.
We were able to introduce them into our existing clients.
So by virtually every measure that acquisition has performed at or above our expectations.
And Jim you want to just talk about how you think about acquisitions? I would probably just echo a little bit of what Bob said.
From a return standpoint we are well in excess – our targets are well in excess of our weighted average cost of capital.
And Norland is off to a great start and we expect it to be quite a strong financial deal for our investors.
Okay.
And then just last question for me the $5.3 billion of equity that you have to deploy in investment management can you just describe the nature of that like for instance is that sponsor fund type money that you would get pointing a quarter on or is that core money that you don’t get anything on until you put it to work and it’s 40 bps or how do we think about that because it seems like a good pipeline? Yes it’s a bit of a mix of everything to be honest with you from around the world.
We have not broken out the capital as to what buckets it’s in but it’s pretty broadly based across most of our businesses including kind of typical real estate private equity funds at one end and down to core separate accounts at the other end.
I will say there is an interesting dimension to this Anthony and that is that we are meeting with increasing success in raising capital to be moved from one region of the world to the other particularly from Asia to the other regions of the world both in funds and in separate accounts as Jim said.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks Anthony.
And next we will go to the line of Brad Burke with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Congrats on the quarter.
So realized that you are not updating guidance and realized it’s difficult to extrapolate one particularly the first quarter and make assumptions about the entire year but considering what you had said before about the GSEs weighing on Q1 and broker recruits weighing on Q1 and generally EBITDA is 15% of the total in Q1 and you had expected it to be more backend loaded in 2014.
I guess first I am just trying to understand were the impact from the broker recruits lower than what you had expected? It certainly seems like the GSE impact was lower than what you are initially expecting.
And then the second part is it still fair to think that versus that 15% that you are going to be more backend loaded than normal this year or do you think that wouldn’t be the case anymore? Brad I would just say as you noted the first quarter is a small percentage of the profits for the year typically and it was a very strong first quarter.
So it wouldn’t be surprising or that noteworthy if the quarter ended up being a few basis points or a few percentage points higher percentage of income than prior years.
Okay that’s helpful.
And obviously you had the CWCapital portfolio was that a big component of the total in Q1? It’s Gil.
Brad it was a single digit million contribution.
Okay.
And then and on Norland I mean clearly a huge driver of pretty impressive results in EMEA and I think we have previously talked about this business in the context of $700 million maybe a little bit more in revenue and just looking at what the business did in Q1 and assuming a run rate on that it will put you close to $870 million so I was just trying to understand for Norland I mean is that – first I mean what’s driving the strong improvement and also is that something that we had to be thinking about as a stabilized run rate for the business? I would say a couple of things Q1 for Norland tends to be its strongest quarter.
Okay.
Just the way they are cycle planned to get a little more project management work in the first quarter within long-term contracts.
But it is a more stable quarter-to-quarter business.
It’s a little heavier in the first quarter.
Okay great.
And then just a last one on the GSEs certainly we saw the weak GSE originations for the year and it looks like it really wasn’t that much of an issue for you in the first quarter do you think this is going to become more of an issue if we don’t see an improvement in GSE originations or do you think that going to other sources of capital is something that you can sustain on a go forward basis? We did take a hit on that activity as we expected in the first quarter.
But as you know we were able to offset that with other sources of capital.
I think we would expect to continue to see a bit of a hit in the second quarter.
And then after that our best guess is that it shouldn’t be much of an issue.
Okay great.
I appreciate.
Thank you.
You bet.
And we will go to the line of Mitch Germain with JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good quarter guys.
Any other changes Bob to the underlying revenue drivers in the guidance I know you talked about or you and Jim talked about the mortgage origination and investment management being flat but any other changes of note? No changes of note the things that are driving revenue are what we would have expected to drive revenue.
Our brokers did a great job.
By the way and as it relates to our brokers the one thing nobody has asked us about yet but last year we talked a lot about brokerage recruiting and having a record year for brokerage recruiting that momentum has continued into this year.
So when you think about how the rest of the year is going to play out one of the things that we will have is we will have the good news of having on boarded more brokers but we will also have the early cost associated with that additional staff ahead of when the revenue comes on.
Right I appreciated that.
Two of your competitors have talked about acquisition pricing getting a bit frothy is that consistent with what you are seeing in the market today? I would say we are seeing a couple of large deals that people are talking about in the marketplace and what’s being quoted sounds quite frothy on the more day to day infill transactions that we are seeing in the market.
We don’t see that really it’s been relatively consistent.
Great.
And I think last question for me what – I know that you have referenced increased penetration of the outsourcing business in Europe and Asia maybe what was the reluctance maybe initially and what’s really driving the increase in adoption? It’s a little bit like here only many years behind and that every time a company does it and they have some success and their peers in the marketplace observe that success then the peers get more likely to do it.
The other thing that happens is as the business picks up momentum and this has been a big issue here in the States.
The base of people that are able to deal with outsourcing on the buy side so in the States over the years the number of corporate real estate executives out there or corporate treasurers or corporate CFOs that would know how to deal with an outsourcing arrangement grows.
As those professionals circulate around the industry that’s starting to happen a little bit in Europe and Asia.
And so it’s a build just based on some natural factors as a little bit more is done there is a reason for the next bit of it to be done based on experience and people out there knowing how to do it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we will go to the line of Keane McCarthy with William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
I mean given the last couple of quarters especially in the EMEA region it appears that it’s turning a corner and we are even hearing things of (indiscernible) of GDP growth in the Western side of the continent but I was just curious with some of the noise in Central Europe and Eastern Europe if that’s changed any kind of occupier sentiment in the early days of Q2? It’s certainly changed sentiment in Russia and maybe a little bit of the rest Eastern Europe.
It hasn’t had a big impact on our business because we don’t have a big business in Russia but it has some impact on sentiment.
It hasn’t had a meaningful impact on sentiment throughout the continent.
Okay.
And then I guess I mean your property sales have done really well over the last couple of quarters and I was wondering the growth has outpaced the market significantly but just curious if you could parse that kind of growth into buckets if there would be the broker additions ramping up or just the capital moving to secondary markets or just kind of in general market tailwinds just kind of curious where that market share is coming from and if that you guys are just benefitting from the secondary markets more than some others I guess? Thanks.
Yes it’s a little bit difficult to break it down in that way but I would say as the market leader there is a certain amount of critical mass and momentum and when you add to that some infill M&amp;A over time and additional recruiting and then just cross activity between the lines of business everything has helped us build some market share.
Okay got it.
And then just last one for me you had talked about early days with the Norland as well as the EMEA CB legacy business and the go to market strategy but I was just curious if you can kind of go in a little more detail as far as how that go to market strategy is progressing.
And then how – when you are sitting at the table what clients maybe legacy CB clients was missing and what they like now with the Norland or vice versa? Thanks.
Well we had a very clear strategy in pursuing Norland and that strategy was that we wanted to be able to provide the full suite of Global Corporate Services occupier outsourcing capabilities.
We knew that we were weak as it related to the delivery of building engineering services.
And we knew that was a missing link it was not allowing us to win some deals and it was not allowing us to do everything we normally do for some of the clients we had.
This fit perfectly in that regard and it has played out at least as well as we hoped it would.
The Norland team is really quite strong so when we introduced them to an existing client an existing CBRE client their reputation is well known in the market and they are quickly received we ticked off in our opening remarks some of the clients that we have been able to introduce them to.
That’s been it – I wouldn’t say it’s been a pleasant surprise it’s been pleasant.
We weren’t all that surprised by it so it’s worked quite well.
Got it.
Alright thanks guys.
And our final question will come from the line of David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Sure.
So I heard your commentary that the principal businesses revenue is expected to be flattish in 2014 excluding carried interest but would you expect the adjusted EBITDA to be flattish ex-carry or is that a bit too optimistic? We do expect the adjusted EBITDA ex-carry to be flattish in aggregate between the two.
Okay.
And then how durable are those – are the EMEA capital markets trends that you saw in the first quarter how strong is your pipeline or how positive is investor appetite for that region? Well we think the – our pipeline and the marketplace is as you say fairly durable.
Now there is a couple of things going on some markets like Spain and Ireland are emerging.
The biggest market over there of course London there is concern about whether or not there is going to be enough product to meet the demand and so on and so forth.
So we think there is – it’s a durable situation.
It is worth noting that the compares are going to get tougher towards the end of the year because if you go to last year as you remember the end of last year the market was dramatically better than it was at the start of last year.
So we are still working off of relatively weak compares first half of this year those compares will get stronger of course the back half of the year.
Got it.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
And gentlemen that is our final question.
Please continue.
Okay.
Well thank you everyone for listening in and we will talk to you again in 90 days.
And so ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our teleconference call for this evening.
Again thank you very much for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Greetings and welcome to the CBRE Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Iaco.
Please begin sir.
Thank you and welcome to CBRE’s second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
About an hour ago we issued a press release announcing our Q2 2014 financial results.
This release is available on the homepage of our website at www.cbre.com.
This conference call is being webcast and is available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Also available is a presentation slide deck which you can use to follow along with our prepared remarks.
An audio archive of the webcast and PDF version of the slide presentation will be posted on the website later today and a transcript of our call will be posted tomorrow.
Please turn to the slide labeled forward-looking statements.
This presentation contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These include statements regarding CBRE’s future growth momentum operations financial performance business outlook and ability to successfully integrate businesses we have acquired with our existing operations.
These statements should be considered to be estimates only and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Except to the extent required by securities laws we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forward-looking statements you may hear today.
For a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any estimates that you may hear today please refer to our second quarter earnings report filed on Form 8-K our current Annual Report on Form 10-K and our recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
These reports are filed with the SEC and are available at the SEC’s website.
During the course of this presentation we may make certain statements that refer to non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations.
Where required by these regulations we have provided reconciliations of these measures to what we believe are the most directly comparable GAAP measures those reconciliations can be found within the appendix of this presentation.
Please turn to Slide 3.
Participating with me today are Bob Sulentic our President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Groch our Chief Financial Officer and Global Director of Corporate Development; and Gil Borok our Deputy Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer who will join us for the Q&amp;A period.
Please turn to Slide 4 as I turn the call over to Bob.
Thank you Steve.
Our strong performance in 2014 continued in the second quarter.
We again turned in double-digit growth in global revenue even without our acquisition of Norland Managed Services and a 16% increase in adjusted earnings per share.
Overall results were in-line with anticipated trajectory for a business and reflect our success in driving meaningful growth while continuing to make investments that support our professional enhanced client service and will sustain our long-term performance.
Before Jim takes you to the quarter in detail I’ll cover some highlights starting with our global region.
EMEA once again produced outstanding results.
We continue to benefit from an improved macro environment region and Norland’s first rate building technical engineering capabilities which are now part of our integrated suite of occupier outsourcing services.
While Norland was a major contributor during the quarter we also produced solid organic growth from our existing businesses.
The Americas our largest business segment showed strong growth.
Property leasing and occupier outsourcing were key catalyst.
In leasing we registered our strongest revenue growth in three years driven by market share gains.
Asia-Pacific faced dual challenges of a sluggish macro environment and continued currency weakness.
However revenue rose 9% in local currency paced by Australia.
We augmented our Asia-Pacific business at the end of the second quarter by acquiring our long-time affiliate in Thailand and established well-run domestic business.
We continue to see strategic well-structured M&amp;A as an effective use of capital and have announced six acquisitions thus far in 2014 including three in the past two weeks.
Now I’ll turn to our global business line highlights on Slide 5.
As mentioned particularly notable was property leasing which generated double-digit growth for the fourth consecutive quarter.
This increase was driven mainly by the U.S.
while we’re reaping the benefit of improved occupier sentiment and continued focus on market share gains.
Asia-Pacific grew solidly in local currency.
Occupier outsourcing which we called Global Corporate Services or GCS had an exceptional quarter.
Globally revenue rose 58% with the big boost from Norland.
However even without Norland this was our fastest growing business line with organic revenue up 17%.
We continue to benefit significantly from the high quality depth in scale of the global integrated solutions that we deliver for larger occupiers.
We also saw improved results in global investment management and the strong track record of our investment program drew significant new capital and generated higher performance base fees during the quarter.
Property sales grew significantly in Europe but only increased modestly in the Americas as compared with robust revenue growth we delivered in the second quarter of 2014.
Capital targeting U.S.
real estate remains strong liquidity as plentiful and we believe our pipelines for the balance of the year are solid.
Commercial mortgage service revenue fell due to lower activity as expected with the government-sponsored enterprises.
Overall and importantly contractual revenue sources continue to rise accounting for 53% of total revenue during the period up from 47% in the second quarter of 2013 mostly reflecting the Norland contributions.
Our long-running revenue makeshift toward more stable recurring revenue sources was a major factor in the credit rating upgrade we received during the quarter.
We’re pleased with our performance in the first half of the year with growth of 24% in revenue and 30% in adjusted earnings per share.
In the Americas revenue increased 11% and EBITDA improved 9% for the first half despite the drag from lower GSE originations.
Had GSE activity been flat versus last year’s first half America’s EBITDA would have increased 14% for the first half of 2014 reflecting positive underlying operating leverage in the business.
Overall our results reflect the ability of our people to deliver premier globally integrated services that create superior value and are increasingly required by clients.
This is an enduring strength that provides a competitive advantage to CBRE.
Now Jim will review the quarter in more depth.
Thank you Bob.
Please turn to Slide 6.
Q2 2014 was another period of strong growth for CBRE.
We achieved the 22% revenue increase on the strength of solid organic growth as well as contributions from our acquisition in Norland.
Excluding Norland consolidated revenue rose 11%.
Normalized EBITDA in Q2 increased 8% over the prior year quarter.
As previously forecasted during our Q1 earnings call this quarter’s normalized EBITDA was impacted by lower GSE activity and the timing of development sales.
Had these two items were flat versus same quarter last year normalized EBITDA would have been up 13%.
After adjusting for selected items EPS increased 16% to $0.36 in Q2.
On a GAAP basis earnings per share rose 52% to $0.32  In Q2 2014 we benefited from a $9.1 million decrease in interest expense primarily due to our refinancing activities last year.
This benefit was offset by $10.6 million increase in normalized amortization and depreciation expense.
Our normalized tax rate fell to 37% for the quarter compared with 40% in Q2 ’13.
For the full year we continue to expect the normalized tax rate to be approximately 35%.
Now discuss the performance of our regional business segments in local starting with the Americas on Slide 7.
We continue to produce double-digit growth in the Americas.
Overall revenue increased 12% for Q2 2014.
This is the seventh consecutive quarter of double-digit revenue growth.
Property sales which can be lumpy quarter-to-quarter grew 4% in the second quarter after tough compare.
With the Americas the U.S.
experienced 38% growth during Q1 and only 2% growth in Q2.
Q2 was against [ph] Q2 of 2013 that had grown 37% over Q2 2012.
We anticipate mid teams growth in the second half of the year.
Leasing was a standout performer with a 19% revenue increase.
This was our highest growth rate since Q2 2011 as we benefited from investments in this core part of our business including continued strong recruiting.
Market conditions are improving and CBRE econometric devisers forecast about a 4% rent increase for Q2 ’14 over Q2 2013 based on preliminary data.
We continue to enhance our transaction professional’s ability to create competitive advantage for our clients.
By example our transaction professionals now draw off a considerable internal expertise in order to place solutions logistics budget management investment banking and healthcare.
Global Corporate Services or GCS in the Americas grew revenue by 19% or 18% in dollars with strong new business wins.
There is significant synergy in both directions between GCS and our leasing business as our large corporate customers are increasingly purchasing these services on an integrated multi-year contractual basis.
Combined with Asset Services GCS and Asset Services together grew by 14%.
Please turn to Slide 8 regarding EMEA.
EMEA had revenue growth of 82% in Q2.
Norland added $196 million of revenue during the period.
Even without this contribution EMEA revenue grew 9% or 16% in U.S.
dollars.
Norland bolstered our combined GCS and Asset Services growth.
However we achieved 20% revenue growth in local currency without revenue from Norland as our outsourcing business gained attraction in Europe with significant new business wins including a major facilities management contract with Credit Suisse.
Property sales also remained strong with revenue up 14%.
We continue to see increased activity in more countries including Ireland the Netherlands and Sweden as well as ongoing strength in Germany.
This compensated for lower revenue in the UK where Central London had a pause in activity with some expected Q2 deal activity likely slipped into Q3.
Leasing in EMEA declined 5% in local currency that was essentially flat in U.S.
dollars.
Please turn to Slide 9 regarding Asia-Pacific.
We achieve 9% revenue growth in Q2 2014.
However the growth rate was reduced to 3% when translated into U.S.
dollars primarily due to the weak Australian dollar.
GCS and Asset Services combine saw revenue increase 12%.
Third-party real estate management is gaining a stronger foothold in Asia with Greater China India and Japan providing significant contributions this quarter as did Australia.
Leasing revenue rose 9% driven by Australia India and Greater China where we represented city group in the largest ever office transaction in Hong Kong.
We are particularly pleased with this growth at a time when the region’s occupiers generally remain cautious about long-term space commitments.
Property sales revenue rose 6%.
Activity in Australia was especially robust which compensated for sluggish performance in most of the rest of the region.
Lower EBITDA and operating income for the region in Q2 was primarily due to a decline in high-margin property sales in Japan compared with a very strong second quarter 2013.
Please turn to Slide 10 regarding Global Corporate Services.
In Q2 the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals once again ranked CBRE the number one real estate outsourcing firm.
Even more noteworthy CBRE was ranked the number three global outsourcing company among all industries.
GCS growth is being propelled by a secular change in how multinational corporations and other large usage of space are contracting the real estate services.
Corporations are increasingly putting a premium on strategic globally integrated solutions that help them operate more efficiently and enhance their ability to achieve their own strategic objectives and CBRE is particularly well positioned to deliver these solutions.
While the outsourcing trend has been growing strongly in the U.S.
for some time this recently gained more attraction overseas and in newer vertical markets.
We signed 32 contracts in EMEA and Asia-Pacific in the first half of 2014.
In healthcare an industry facing intense cost and regulatory pressure we signed new contracts.
We expanded our existing relationships with eight U.S.
hospital systems in the first half of 2014.
In Europe our GCS offering has been materially strengthened by the Norland acquisition.
It has not only given us a best-in-class building technical engineering capability but has added real depth to our senior management ranks.
During Q2 we appointed Norland’s CEO Ian Entwisle to lead our entire GCS business in Europe.
He is a talented executive for the record of driving strong growth for a new business and client retention.
Please turn to Slide 11 regarding Global Investment Management.
Revenue grew 6% and normalized EBITDA increased 15% in Q2 or 9% and 17% respectively in U.S.
dollars.
This growth is notable following a year in which we sold $10 billion of assets for our clients and exited the management of a private REIT.
We raised $3.2 billion of new equity in Q2 or $4.4 billion year to date already nearly matching our total capital raised in all of last year.
Our ability to attract fresh capital attached to the underlying strategy of the business.
We have $6.6 billion of equity available to deploy.
AUM increased for the quarter to $92.8 billion up $4.6 billion from Q2 2013.
Property acquisitions and dispositions each totaled a bit more than $1 million for the quarter.
We now have increased AUM for three consecutive quarters.
We generated over $7 million of carried interest revenue in Q2.
Under the normalized accounting treatment we adopted it beginning of last year.
We matched the timing of related compensation expense which was typically about half of the revenue.
Our equity co-investment in the Global Investment Management business totaled $167.2 million at the end of Q2 2014.
Please turn to Slide 12 regarding our Development Services business.
As expected second quarter revenue and normalized EBITDA in this business declined from a year ago.
This is due to timing.
As discussed on our last quarterly call we completed a major asset sale in Q1 which was earlier than expected and another major sale originally scheduled for Q2 will close later this year.
This development business continues to ramp up as the economy improves.
This can be seen in a larger deal pipeline which is increased by $400 million since year end 2013 to $1.9 billion.
Development projects in process totaled $4.8 billion at quarter end down marginally from year end 2013.
Our equity co-investments in the Development Services business totaled $96 million at the end of Q2 while our total recourse debt for this business stood at only $13 million.
Now I’ll turn the call back over to Bob for closing remarks.
Thank you Jim.
Please turn to Slide 13.
At the midpoint of the year we’re pleased with the way 2014 is unfolding.
While the macro environment is mixed globally we are encouraged by signs of improved conditions in the U.S.
and Europe.
As important our people on with the industry’s premier service offering and our increasingly strong platform are creating significant value for clients.
Our balance sheet is strong and we recently achieved that in investment grade rating on our secured debt for the first time.
First half property sales growth of 14% is in line with our expectations for a double-digit revenue increase for the full year.
Property leasing growth of 12% in the first half is pacing ahead of our expectations of mid- to high-digit growth for the year fueled by share gains and an improving market.
We expect global corporate services to continue its strong growth following the first half during which revenue was up 59% or 15% without Norland.
We now expect GSE origination activity could be down modestly rather than flat for the full year.
We also expect revenue in earnings evaluation and appraisal services in the U.S.
to be down for 2014.
Our principal businesses investment management and development services remain on track with some upside versus our initial expectations.
In light of our performance in the first half with adjusted EPS up 30% and our active pipeline we now expect full-year earnings per share as adjusted to be in the $60 to $65 range an increase of $0.05 per share from our initial guidance.
This upside is driven largely by transactional activity which we anticipate entirely in the fourth quarter.
We believe this ranges in aggressive but achievable result for 2014.
At the same time we want to emphasize that we faced much more challenging earnings comparisons in the second half due to the nearly $90 million of EBITDA from carried interest we generated in last year second half.
Further the macro environment continues to present challenges underscored by heightened geopolitical tensions.
In closing we remain positive about our outlook and the advantages afforded by our people globally integrated services offering and strong cash flow in balance sheet.
With that operator we will open the lines for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question today is coming from Anthony Paolone from JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks and good afternoon.
With regards to your comment about transactional activity in the fourth quarter driving up to guidance can you be more specific as to what that is like? Is that promotes that you were previously assuming or is there something else? Anthony this is Bob.
What we mean to say there is that we think there is some upside combined in our principal businesses investment management and development and that’s transactionally driven.
That will be from the sale of assets and potentially in our brokerage businesses our investment properties business and our leasing business.
So it’s various types of transactions.
But those items that could come out of like investor management if you sell assets like the carries and the carried interests in the promotes do you now including a bit more that in the buck 60 to buck 65 or that would be on top of the buck 60 to buck 65? No no.
That would be unsighted.
That would be a small amount from where we sit today.
Okay but then the rest of the increase in the guidance also relates to just other businesses not just purely like promotes?  Yes.
Again transactionally oriented so brokerage-oriented businesses investment sales leasing.
Okay.
And then on leasing you had good growth in that for several quarters now but it seems like each time you’ve chalked it up to market share gains just trying to understand a) how much more can you gain in share before you really need the market to kind of get behind you? And b) can you put any brackets around what you think a better leasing environment could deliver in terms of growth in that business segment? We wouldn’t.
We’ve said that we expect growth in America’s leasing for instance which is our biggest leasing market by far to be in the 5% to 10% range.
We really have modified our due on that.
As it relates to our… That could go up with the economy got better but based on what we’re saying in the economy now what’s being forecasted we think that’s a reasonable rate.
As jobs are getting added companies are also becoming more efficient in their use of space somewhat and so forth.
We think we can continue to gain market share for a while.
When you look at our business there is none of our product lines including leasing that we have crossed the board [ph] more than about 10% mortgage share.
Leasing in particular is a product line that’s moving in an account based direction sometimes just leasing accounts so we will do all the leasing for a particular company across the United States or potentially beyond the United States.
It may be integrated with GSE accounts so as that part of the business moves in an account based direction we are advantaged.
We’ve added a good number of producers over the last couple of years as we talked about that creates an opportunity for us to gain market share and we’ve done some work to get gain deeper knowledge in the local markets and with some markets we have good market share and then with some markets we have lesser market share and so we’re targeting those markets for the additional brokers and so forth.
Okay And then just last question.
You guys seemed to have done a number of..
Sorry.
Talking on acquisitions if you will over the last several months can you give us any color on the economics of those or contribution on a go-forward basis and also just what that pipeline works like as well in terms of doing more those? Yeah Anthony.
This is Jim Groch.
We’ve closed six small east [ph] transactions and announced the seven and we historically said that our infill transactions are running between 5 and 6 generally averaging over the last several years at about 5 and half EBITDA multiple and we’re continuing that record continues.
We’re actually running at a little bit lower multiple.
We are seeing quite discipline on the M&amp;A front and then I would just note that including the announced deal that hasn’t closed yet most of these have been recently in the last few weeks.
We’ll be acquiring in the neighbourhood of $130 million of run-rate revenue.
And what is that pipeline look like in terms of other dealership might be contemplating? Did all of these just happen to occur at around the same or was there sort of a shift for you guys to just focus more on M&amp;A? Well.
If you look over the last 18 months we have been on average closing a transaction about one transaction a month.
We closed 11 deals last year and 6 closed in the first six months of this year.
So with this period we’ve obviously increased the volume from prior periods but let’s say continues to run pretty steady.
We may have a low for a couple of months as we’ve just had a crunch of deals coming through at close but the pipeline continues to look pretty good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Brad Burke from Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good evening guys.
When I touched on property sales and realized that the property sales can be lumpy quarter-to-quarter but wanted to get a sense to whether the deceleration that you saw in terms of the growth from Q1 to Q2 particularly in Americas if that’s consistent to what you’re seeing in the market or whether the quarter we’re just in usually choppy? And you’re still forecasting double-digit growth for the entire year which would imply an acceleration from 2Q.
So I was hoping you could elaborate that because the comps don’t appear to be getting any easier year-over-year as you get in the Q3 and Q4.
Yeah Brad.
First of all we had a really tough year-over-year comparing in terms of growth with the growth we had in the second quarter in 2013.
We had a big quarter in Q1 as you know which can suggest that some activity that could have closed in either the first or second quarter closed in the first quarter and frankly we didn’t have a lot of activity in the second quarter.
It wasn’t a real active quarter for us at all as evidence by the numbers we turned in.
We think that was just kind of a circumstance attributable to the lumpiness of the business a lot like we saw in the first quarter when we had the 30+% growth in the America.
So we still based on everything our research people are telling us and our economists are telling us what we’re tracking in the market the backlogs we have we still think mid teams growth in the second half of the year is reasonable.
We keep close tapes as you know on what are producers have in their pipelines and that would suggest that those numbers make sense.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then on asset management obviously a good quarter for the fund raising and it’s nice to see the AUM picked up.
So I’m just curious what you’re seeing in the pipeline in terms of more appetite for fundraising and also a nice increase looks like in the base fee.
So I’m just wondering whether or not we should expect that to continue whether there was anything kind of unique in Q2 that drove the quarter-over-quarter increase? Yeah we’re seeing good momentum around the world in asset AUM and capital raising for the business and expect that to result in increases in AUM.
That’s really particularly true in Europe and the Americas and we don’t see any reason for that to change through the end of the year.
In terms of the question on the fee guild can you answer that? Yeah.
Hi Brad.
In terms of the fee I think what you’ve noticed is that the fees structures under management quarter-over-quarter are pretty flat and then there were some incentive and disposition fees that we received that were hired in prior year and that had to do obviously with disposition activity or largely with that and then there were some carried interests that sort of the component.
Okay.
And then just last one.
The expectation for evaluation of appraisal will be down in 2014.
What’s driving that? Hi this is Jim Brad.
The evaluations business had done a lot of work over the years with lenders in particular working at loans that activity is fallen off.
And then we have also seen a little bit of a shift in what some folks are buying or looking to buy from that service line where they’re purchasing at lower costs.
Some were level appraisals that we’ve seen a little bit of a shift in the fee structure and then the product as well.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Brandon Dobell from William Blair.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Good afternoon guys.
Why you could address I guess the thought process at the management level thinking about flowing through some of the transactional upside versus pushing that back into the business and going out on hiring some more transaction professionals I did guess I think about the trade-offs between those two I guess uses of margin points these days? Yeah Brandon we made the decision a couple of years ago that we were going to trade-off some current income for more certain long-term growth in a variety of ways.
One of the ways was by additional recruiting in our various brokerage lines of business.
Again as you know last few we had our best year in the decade recruiting.
That has continued into this year.
That strong recruiting momentum we’ll see by the end of the year how it affects over the last year but we’ve had good recruiting momentum this year.
We also chose to make investment in what we called our operating platforms so things like technology research etc.
that support our market facing professionals.
So we have a mindset and a strategy that is aimed at investing in the business to a rational degree in the short run to support long-term growth and long-term stability in the business.
That will continue that will continue with the acquisition of producers but it will also continue in the other ways I mentioned.
So it sounds like there is enough upside in I guess the flow of business that you can continue all those efforts at the pace as you thought you would be on as you started the year but it doesn't sound like there was enough to say – all right let’s step up the pace of either technology investment or producer recruiting or are you satisfied with the pace of both those initiatives? Technology and producers? We are satisfied.
We stepped that pace up some time ago.
We haven’t backed off the pace but we’re not accelerating.
We think we’re at about the right -- about the right place now.
And then focus on Norland for a second.
Any material or noticeable seasonality in that business as we think about modeling its contribution in the back half of this year? Yeah Brandon this is Jim Groch.
Norland’s historical strongest quarter is Q1 and the next strongest quarter is Q4 typically and then two and three are plus – have been plus or minus the same.
So unlike a lot of our business it’s actually slightly weighted to the first half of the year.
And then looking at the contracts that you guys signed in the quarter where you had opportunities to perhaps bring Norland into those discussions I guess I am curious from two perspectives.
One are you able to go into existing contracts that either aren’t up for renewal or in a period where you are not talking too much about the next leg of the contract and inject Norland into the discussion maybe to either displace an existing vendor or displace an in–house capability? And then secondly in the contract negotiations where there is a renewal opportunity.
Have you been able to put Norland into that discussion as easily as you thought you could post the acquisition? With regard to our GCS business which is where Norland primarily plays they have been welcomed by our folks and by our clients in renewals in new contract pursued.
So the answer to that is very definitely yes.
And it has been viewed roundly as an upgrade to our offering and rounding out of our offering in a big way in Europe or particularly in the UK.
In terms of inserting them in ongoing contracts we only do that at points where there is -- we only attempt to introduce them into a contract at a natural point where there's a renewal or there's a need for the particular service they offer to the bid.
That's the right way to do that and that’s the approach we take.
And then final question the leasing markets obviously some nice I guess gradual acceleration the past 10 quarters.
In your discussions with corporates out there I guess occupiers in particular how fast do you think they are moving towards this kind of contractual relationship or leasing as part of a broader – I guess a broader relationship with you guys and is that – is there any specific type of company that’s making a faster push that way looking to integrate a whole lot of services with one provider? I am just trying to get a sense for how quickly market share drivers can change given that push towards kind of a more broad contractual relationship with you guys? Brandon this is Jim.
It has been kind of on a steady march along that path for the last few years.
We estimate that about 30% of our tenant revenues are now coming from our large corporate outsourcing clients and roughly half of our corporate outsourcing assignments include transactions as part of the contract.
So it’s become quite material over the last few years.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from David Ridley-Lane from Bank of America.
Sure I think we will start comping the lower GSC in the third quarter and just kind of curious – I know you are saying the originations would be down for the full year.
But how much of that drag kind of goes away as we look into the second half of this year? Hi David it’s Gil.
If you will recall original guidance [ph] that we thought for the full year would be flat right but the first half down and the second half recovering.
That was the original guidance and so what we are indicating is we just don't expect as much of a recovery in the second half.
So it will be down slightly for the full year.
And is my math right around 12 million drag for the first half in terms of EBITDA? 13 million.
And when you look at the drivers of leasing acceleration are you seeing more sort on a square footage demand is it the fact that rents are increasing or terms going up is there any sort of driver that stands out as improving significantly? The one thing we commented David – this is Jim – is that rent growth – our econometric advisors group has rent up about 4%.
That’s a preliminary data so it’s not all-in but that’s discipline disciplinary the this is not all and but that over 12 months so that is starting to become more material impact on the leasing business.
Otherwise no single factor that is material but on the margin the square footage get a little bit higher we are even seeing a month or two more on term on occasion on average.
So all the indicators are just moving slightly but the big moves I would say are rent and then market share.
And then if you had to look into your investment sales pipelines are you seeing more activity in the tier 2 tier 3 cities or is it kind of evenly balanced in terms of growth between tier one and any other cities? We are seeing the smaller markets pick up on a relative basis and it’s a direct link to the fact that capital is looking -- there's a lot of capital out there a lot of it is already been aimed at the gateway markets etc.
and it’s now moving into the second tier markets.
So when you look at the asset services pieces of the outsourcing business for additional owners are you little bit more optimistic there has been a couple of reports around increased allocation to real estate among some pension funds and some sovereign wealth funds and do you see an opportunity for your business to increase there? This is Jim.
I would say we’re not seeing much of that to be honest with you.
That businesses is being impacted somewhat by just a very high churn rate as asset – as the pace of sales have gone up.
Let me just clarify that – are you talking investment management or property management? I am talking about the asset services pieces of the outsourcing so not GCS but for the institutional owners.
The property management side which falls under asset services so we’re seeing a little bit of momentum – as net operating income in the buildings begins to improve with higher rental rates that can flow through in fees but that business overall has a relatively slow growth rate still right now.
Our next question today is coming from Mitch Germain from JMP Securities.
Bob I am just trying to circle back to your on leasing you are up 12% on the year you guys are I think mid to high single-digit you’re talking about transaction really is what's driving some of the upside to guidance.
So is that now a double-digit growth is that where you are expecting or should we expect a bit of a slowdown in the back half of the year versus the first half of the year as you -- given how much you’ve accelerated so trying to understand how that plays out? We think we’ve had a really good rate of growth in leasing in the first half of the year.
We don’t know if we will keep it at the level it's been at.
We think we are going to take market share we think we will outgrow market.
But our comment on the upside that you are in is we look at all of our transactional businesses so as we said a little bit development little bit investment management little bit investment properties little bit leasing and we see generally good activity -- good opportunities in those areas and we think that the cumulative effect of all that should provide the kind of upside that we’ve given you in our number by raising the range a nickel.
It’s not something where we have budgeted that 5% out in detail and allocated it among those various pieces.
And I just want to go back to one of Brian’s questions with regard to your hiring efforts.
Is your foot – I guess what I am trying to characterize is your foot on the accelerator as fast as it was in ’13 or has it slowed down a bit? It’s comparable.
It’s comparable.
Our attitude toward recruiting is the same it was we are trying to find the right people.
When we find the right people in the right slots that we need we go after them aggressively but we don’t have an attitude that we have to hire a certain number of people.
We have more of a view of our network and where there is opportunities to take market share on our network and we go after the right people to fit those holes and our attitude toward that hasn’t changed in the last 18 months.
Great and the last question from me you talked about some increased swings in Europe and in Asia.
And I guess maybe I am curious are they local – European local and Asia local companies or are they being – or effort being run out of the US and for the local European and Asia companies is there some sort of theme is there some sort of region is it cost savings is it trying to maximize efficiency at the real estate collaboration or whatever what’s really driving them gaining increased adoption of outsourcing? Well first of all the trend on this for our outsourcing business and I think in general for businesses that outsource whether they’re real estate or otherwise is that there is similarly adopters and others in the marketplace watching and if they see good results they start to adopt themselves and then the population of people that know how to do it within a sector grow.
So right now we are seeing a trend little bit like we saw in the states there were some early adopters in Europe and Asia and it’s becoming more and more accepted over there too it’s growing.
Almost always they are looking for a couple of things.
Cost – they are looking for us to deliver cost savings because we have a track record of being able to deliver cost at better rate than they can.
We are more expert at than they are.
They tend to be in other industries we are in the real estate industry and so that’s helpful to us.
Secondly they are looking for strategic advice.
When we provide integrated outsourcing services we are at the high end of this strategic pecking order so to speak.
So we are doing facilities management project management transaction management advice consulting advice.
They are looking for strategic advice in real estate and then coupling that with these other services and that creates an advantage for them.
And so those are two things that they are consistently looking for that we are able to deliver and we have a demonstrated track record of doing that and it’s starting to be recognized in Europe and Asia as it was in the early days in the United States.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Todd Lukasik from Morningstar.
I have a couple on the global corporate services business.
First I was wondering how you had described the pace of interest in this area.
I know it’s been strong lately but have you noticed that accelerating at all? And then second can you talk a little bit about the onboarding process for those new GCS clients a bit and in particular I am wondering if there were a big uptick in client interest – are there any onboarding capacity constraints to accelerating the growth in that area from your perspective.
We haven’t had onboarding capacity constraints.
It’s a lot of work when you land one of these accounts and you have to have a deep bench of people that’s one of the advantages we have.
We have 300 of these accounts now which provides a strong base of people we can use to bring on additional accounts.
And again going back to the previous question in the early days when there were only a small handful of accounts there weren’t that many practised professionals out there so to speak.
We have that now which is very helpful.
I would say we have seen a consistent growth in interest in this part of our business over several years and that continues.
And as we said it’s being helped by a couple of things now.
Number one the fact that it’s becoming more accepted in Europe and Asia and number two the fact that there is some particular verticals in the United States and in our case healthcare is a big one for us where there is growing interest.
We had the eight new opportunities we signed in healthcare in the quarter.
So the combination of those two things is driving growth and interest in that business for us.
Thank you.
We have reached the end of our question and answer session.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any further closing comments.
That’s all the comments.
We appreciate everybody’s questions and we look forward to talking to you again in 90 days.
Thank you.
That does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today.
Greetings and welcome to the CBRE Group Third Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Steve Iaco with Investor Relations.
Thank you Mr.
Iaco you may begin.
Thank you and welcome to CBRE's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
About an hour ago we issued a press release announcing our third quarter 2014 financial results.
This release is available on the homepage of our website at cbre.com.
This conference call is being webcast and is available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Also available is a presentation slide deck which you can use to follow along with our prepared remarks.
An audio archive of the webcast and a PDF version of the slide presentation will be posted on the website later today and a transcript of our call will be posted tomorrow.
Please turn to the slide labeled forward-looking statements.
This presentation contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These include statements regarding CBRE's future growth momentum operations financial performance and business outlook.
These statements should be considered to be estimates only and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Except to the extent required by securities laws we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forward-looking statements you may hear today.
For a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any forward-looking statements that you may hear today please refer to our third quarter earnings report filed on Form 8-K our most recent annual report on Form 10-K as amended and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
These reports are filed with the SEC and are available at www.sec.gov.
During the course of this presentation we may make certain statements that refer to non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations.
Where required by these regulations we will have provided reconciliations of these measures to what we believe are the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
Those reconciliations can be found within the appendix of this presentation or in our earnings report.
Please turn to Slide 3.
Participating with me today are Bob Sulentic our President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Groch our Chief Financial Officer and Global Director of Corporate Development; and Gil Borok our Deputy Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer.
Please turn to Slide 4 as I turn the call over to Bob.
Thanks Steve and good afternoon everyone.
CBRE posted excellent results for the third quarter with more than 30% growth over prior year quarter on the top and bottom lines.
Revenue gains were broad-based with double-digit increases across virtually all global business lines and in every region of the world.
This kind of robust performance underscores the power of our globally integrated service offering which allows us to create exceptional outcomes for our clients and drive long-term growth.
In the Americas our largest business segment we posted our strongest revenue growth in more than 3 years.
Every major business line showed growth in the mid-teens percentages or better underpinned by robust leasing and capital markets activity and continued strength in occupier outsourcing.
Growth also improved in Asia-Pacific.
The 23% revenue increase in local currency was the best for this region since the third quarter of 2010 and was driven by stellar results in Australia and Japan.
Revenue doubled in EMEA.
While our acquisition of Norland last year contributed significantly to this performance it is important to note that organic revenue growth was very strong at 19% in local currency.
We continue to benefit from our increasingly integrated suite of client services across EMEA as well as better market activity in much of the region.
Strategic M&amp;A remains a core element of our strategy.
We completed 5 infill acquisitions during the third quarter 3 in the Americas and 1 each in Asia-Pacific and EMEA and we maintain an active pipeline of attractive alternatives.
Please turn to Slide 5 which details revenue growth by line of business.
Capital markets consisting of property sales in commercial mortgage servicing had a standout quarter.
Q3 saw a particularly sharp increase in the U.S.
Momentum in this business continues to be fueled by robust capital flows.
Occupier outsourcing which we call Global Corporate Services or GCS had another outstanding quarter.
Organic revenue rose 18% globally over the prior year period as more large occupiers recognized the depth and breadth of integrated solutions that CBRE provides.
With the added contributions from Norland revenue from this business rose 61%.
Leasing revenue rose at a double-digit clip for the fifth straight quarter.
The U.S.
remains the primary growth catalyst.
Demand for space in the U.S.
is improving in step with better economic conditions and we are seeing significant payback from our investments in people and platform to produce -- to boost market share and enhance client outcomes.
Development Services benefited from improving fundamentals which continued to support our merchant build and fee development model.
We realized gains through the sale of several development projects during the quarter which led to significant revenue and earnings growth.
Revenue declined in Global Investment Management.
This decrease was expected as we generated $30 million of carried interest in last year's third quarter which was not repeated this year.
Excluding carried interest in both periods revenue rose 7%.
More significantly capital raising activity continued at a brisk pace.
Our performance this year has been outstanding.
The heart of CBRE's success is our 44 000 professionals around the world who collaborate to advance the specific business strategies of our clients.
We thank them for their commitment to excellence.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jim who will provide more color on our results.
Thank you Bob.
As Bob stated CBRE continued to turn in excellent financial performance with a 32% increase in adjusted earnings per share year-to-date and a 33% increase for the third quarter.
This is especially strong operating performance given the significant carried interest in our prior year Q3.
Year-to-date we achieved positive operating leverage in all 3 regional segments with normalized EBITDA growth of 32% versus revenue growth of 29%.
This result is even after the contribution of high-growth but lower-margin revenue from Norland.
The overall shift in our business mix toward more stable recurring revenue continued to be evident during the quarter.
Contractual revenue rose to 51% of total revenue up from 48% in Q3 2013.
Contractual revenue and leasing together totaled 76%.
Property sales accounted for 18% of total revenue.
Please turn to Slide 6 to review our results for the quarter.
In Q3 we produced robust revenue growth of 31%.
Excluding contributions from our acquisition of Norland revenue improved 19%.
Normalized EBITDA rose 30% from the prior year quarter.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter increased 33% to $0.40.
On a GAAP basis EPS rose 14% to $0.32.
GAAP EPS was reduced by $0.04 for expenses relating to early debt repayment and additional $0.04 for noncash amortization related to previous acquisitions.
During the quarter we issued $300 million of 10.5-year bonds at an interest rate of 5.25%.
Earlier this week we used the proceeds along with cash on hand and borrowings on our revolver to pay off $350 million of higher coupon 6.625% notes that were due to mature in 2020.
These actions will lower annual interest expense by approximately $5 million and extend the maturity on $300 million of senior unsecured debt by 4.5 years at an attractive fixed interest rate.
Normalized amortization and depreciation expense in Q3 '14 increased $10.4 million versus Q3 prior year.
Our normalized tax rate was 38% in Q3 2014.
We now expect the normalized tax rate to be approximately 36% for the full year.
Now I will turn to our regional business segments starting with the Americas on Slide 7.
All referenced percentage increases in the region highlights will be in local currency and all references to percentage growth will be versus the same period in the prior year.
Q3 revenue growth for the Americas accelerated hitting 20% with EBITDA up 42%.
We've now logged double-digit revenue growth for 8 consecutive quarters in the Americas.
Property sales rebounded strongly with region-wide revenue increasing 27% including a 31% surge in the U.S.
CBRE took significant market share during the quarter as U.S.
market volumes in the quarter increased 19% according to RCA.
Consistent with our remarks during the Q2 earnings conference call we caution against reading too much into quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in this business line.
Leasing had another exceptional quarter.
Revenue rose 18% with the U.S.
again achieving outsized gains in market share.
Market conditions continue to improve steadily with office absorption reaching its highest level since 2007 and rents rising about 5% year-on-year.
We are reaping the benefit of the focused investments we made over the last couple of years to attract and develop top broker talent and to enhance our operating platform to support our brokerage professionals.
In Global Corporate Services we continued to sustain a high growth rate.
Growth was driven by demand from large occupiers for integrated services and by investments we have made to support the delivery of these services.
Combined GCS and Asset Services revenue in the Americas increased 17%.
Please turn to Slide 8 regarding EMEA.
EMEA had another quarter of excellent growth.
Revenue was up 95% or 19% excluding Norland with solid growth across most business lines.
Norland revenue for the quarter totaled $216 million.
EBITDA for the quarter improved 98%.
Outsourcing within EMEA is benefiting from increased adoption.
Combined GCS and Asset Services revenue rose 24% without contribution from Norland.
In Q2 we integrated Norland and in Q3 our combined EMEA outsourcing business did not miss a beat as the team continued to land new clients with a more powerful integrated offering.
Property sales activity continued to perform well with revenue up 30%.
Strong capital flows into the U.K.
were a growth catalyst.
However we are also seeing increased activity in other countries as capital migrates towards additional markets in search of yield.
Growth was especially robust in Spain during Q3.
Leasing revenue rose 3% mainly driven by the U.K.
despite a significant decline in France.
Excluding France leasing revenue in EMEA increased 14%.
Please turn to Slide 9 regarding Asia-Pacific.
Growth in this region was strong across the board.
Overall revenues for the quarter rose 23% while EBITDA increased 75%.
Property sales revenue improved 56% fueled by very strong growth in Australia and Japan.
Combined revenue from GCS and Asset Services rose 20%.
Strong growth continued in Greater China and Japan as well as in more established markets such as Australia and India.
Leasing markets remain subdued across Asia as multinational companies are cautious about committing to new space.
Nevertheless revenue rose 8% fueled by very strong growth in Australia.
Please turn to Slide 10 regarding occupier outsourcing which we call Global Corporate Services or GCS.
GCS continues to onboard new clients at an impressive clip with 26 new contracts signed during Q3 one of our strongest quarters ever and 70 signed year-to-date.
The government sector was our most active vertical market with 6 new clients.
In our health care vertical we signed 3 major hospital systems.
We continued to build momentum outside of the Americas signing 5 new clients in EMEA and Asia-Pacific.
In addition last week we signed an expansion of our relationship with Standard Chartered Bank and we'll be providing transaction management portfolio services and consulting for its 15 million square feet portfolio in 72 countries around the world.
CBRE pioneered this business almost 25 years ago.
As we have continued to deepen and broaden our capabilities at an accelerated pace our corporate clients are asking us to do more.
The value proposition that we can deliver to them is compelling.
Please turn to Slide 11 regarding Global Investment Management.
As anticipated financial results in the Investment Management business declined.
No meaningful carried interest was realized in Q3 of 2014 as compared to nearly $30 million of carried interest revenue in the last year's third quarter.
Excluding carried interest revenue was up 7% driven by significantly higher acquisition fees.
AUM totaled $88.6 billion.
The decrease from Q2 2014 is mostly attributable to foreign -- to weaker foreign currencies particularly the euro.
In addition the decline in REIT prices late in the quarter reduced securities AUM held in client portfolios.
Our strong record of investment performance on behalf of our clients continues to attract significant new capital.
We raised $2.2 billion of new equity during Q3 bringing our total for the last 12 months to $9.1 billion.
Please turn to Slide 12 regarding Development Services.
We realized strong growth in Development Services during Q3.
Revenue plus equity earnings and net gains on real estate dispositions more than doubled to $51.8 million versus Q3 2013.
EBITDA for this segment increased fourfold to $24 million.
We are benefiting from our focus on developing high-quality assets in markets and sectors with significant investor demand.
Closings moved between Q3 and Q4 in both directions with a net increase of approximately $10 million in EBITDA in Q3 pulled forward from what we had expected to occur in Q4.
Reflecting improved fundamentals our pipeline rose by $1 billion over the last quarter to $2.9 billion and projects in process totaled $5.1 billion up $300 million from the second quarter of 2014.
Our equity co-investments in the development business totaled $110.1 million at the end of Q3 2014 while our total recourse debt for this business stood at only $13.8 million.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Bob for closing remarks.
Thank you Jim.
Please turn to Slide 13.
We enter the final months of 2014 with strong momentum across our business lines around the world.
Underlying fundamentals continue to improve and market sentiment remains positive.
We continue to execute our strategy by investing in our people and platform to create value for our clients and to extend our competitive advantage in the marketplace.
With 2 months left in 2014 our full year performance is coming into sharper focus.
Therefore we are raising our adjusted EPS guidance for the full year to a range of $1.65 to $1.70.
We do this while being mindful of the slowing economic growth outside the United States and the challenging earnings comparison we face in the fourth quarter.
As a reminder we generated approximately $58 million of EBITDA from carried interest in Q4 last year.
With that operator we'll open the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Anthony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In terms of your guidance can you talk about how much of the change was driven by just core performance versus say incremental either carried interest or promotes or whatnot? Yes Anthony this is Bob.
The -- what we did was we looked at the performance in the third quarter and we adjusted based on that.
We already had a relatively optimistic view of what would happen in the fourth quarter.
And so to answer your question directly the incremental guidance that we gave was due to the performance of our core service business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if I look at the equity and income from unconsolidated subs you have $43 million.
How much of that was kind of the carry that I guess like in your slide deck you're showing as part of Investment Management.
I'm just trying to reconcile like how much carry in total or gains in total were in the quarter.
Yes Anthony it's Gil.
It's about half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that -- but again just to make sure I understand Bob's comments and how they tie that was contemplated in the prior guidance already.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
A question on Investment Management because it seems like you guys have pretty consistently been raising capital but the AUM's been flattish.
And I understand you have assets that you sell and so it nets out.
Just wondering as you look forward do you get over the hump in terms of asset sales and start to see sort of the capital raising net out to kind of grow AUM? Or how does that shape up? Well first of all Anthony in the third quarter what you saw hit the AUM was overwhelmingly FX in Europe.
So that was the lion's share of it.
We've had a good year for capital raising $9 billion in the last 12 months.
We believe that we're going to have success in deploying that capital.
So we expect over the next year that we'll see gains in AUM.
Now again with something like FX we have no control over that at all.
So that could impact it but we -- net of that we expect to see AUM go up.
And as you know we have sold a lot of assets $10 billion in the last year plus.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And I guess that's what I'm trying to size up like if you think about the $9 billion that you raised if you put it to work over the next I don't know year or so I guess how much of that do you think we'll see putting aside the FX like how much do you think we'll see kind of net out in AUM? Well we're not predicting the amount of AUM that it will grow specifically but we're expecting AUM to go up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in investment sales it was really a strong quarter.
I'm just curious if you could put some color around either the types of product that drove the growth like was it small buildings big buildings? Because I think it's tough for us sometimes when we look at the data out there points us in one direction but doesn't always tie to kind of how you guys do.
So I'm just curious if you could put some color around it.
Well it was -- there was sales from product types and product ties across the board but we did have a very good quarter in terms of selling large assets office buildings in New York a big multifamily portfolio.
So it was a strong quarter.
And we -- if you remember we talked about that little bit in the second quarter.
You just can't read too much into any one quarter in this business.
We didn't see a lot of that big asset harvest in the second quarter.
We had a particularly good third quarter in that regard and that's what you saw.
The next question is from Brad Burke of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about your comment on slowing economic growth outside the U.S.
Can you elaborate on whether you're starting to see any of that show up in a meaningful way in your businesses? Well when we comment on that Brad we're talking about what everybody's seeing in EMEA some slowdown in some of the economies there Germany notably.
We are not seeing that in our businesses.
We have a strong large business in EMEA and it's performing quite well obviously growing well.
We're -- like everybody else we're watching to see what happens but as of right now we have a lot of confidence in how that business will perform for the rest of the year.
Obviously when you talk about Asia-Pacific you see a little bit of that pressure on the economy in China and as a result Australia with the slowdown in natural resources.
But again it hasn't come through into our business.
It's something we're watching but we remain confident on how those businesses will perform for the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay that's helpful.
Wanted to ask about uses of cash because presumably you could have repaid the debt that you took out this quarter just with cash flow from operations.
So one does this assume that you're comfortable right now with where your leverage is at? And then two could you give us an update on how you're thinking about uses of cash over the next 2 to 3 quarters? Brad this is Jim Groch.
Brad I would say no real change on our point of view currently around the use of cash which is that largely over time for the last few years we've been using cash to fund M&amp;A activity and we are comfortable.
Directly to your point we are comfortable.
As you know our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio is at 1.5 and we are comfortable with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And could you comment on how you're seeing the acquisition pipeline as it stands? It remains quite strong.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last one for me with Development Services.
Obviously a strong quarter and the pipeline saw a pretty big increase versus the second quarter.
How should I think about the timing of translating your development in process in your development pipeline to eventually showing up in your EBITDA? Brad it's hard to give you a specific rule of thumb on that to be honest just because the nature of the projects vary considerably.
We qualify a project in the pipeline as having -- it's met a few conditions and it's greater than 50% probability of becoming an in-process deal.
And so we show the pipeline and the in-process separately and then over time you'll see things effectively move from pipeline into in-process.
But it can -- I would say on average would be anywhere at a low end of 12 to 18 months to 3 or 4 years.
The next question is from Brandon Dobell of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Guys have you heard from your capital markets or mortgage brokerage guys any sense from customers or potential customers that they're trying to get things done in anticipation of some sort of move higher in rates at some point in the spring or summer of next year? Is that mindset impacting the velocity of transactions either for investment sales or for debt origination? In general we're not seeing that Brandon.
I think the consensus view is that if rates go up a bit it's going to be indicative of improving economies.
Fundamentals are getting better as you know.
Vacancies are declining.
Occupancies are increasing obviously if vacancies are declining.
Lease rates are going up.
So I don't think there's a lot of concern and I think the anticipation of some increase is kind of baked into people's underwriting at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then taking a step back and kind of market growth rate-wise as you look out the next handful of quarters for investment sales and leasing should similar growth rates in the past couple of quarters for the markets do you think those are sustainable? Or is the macro risk going to put a significant amount of pressure especially on leasing growth rates relative to what you've seen the end markets grow at the past 3 4 quarters? I'll comment on leasing.
Jim you might want to do the capital market side or the investment sales.
We've throughout the course of this year performed on the leasing side better than we expected and better than market.
Part of what you see there is we've had -- last year we had a particularly good year in recruiting.
We've had another good year in recruiting this year.
We've switched out some less active producers for more active producers and we've done some things to support our brokers that we hadn't done historically.
So our leasing performance has been a little bit out ahead of the market.
We think we can sustain a market-exceeding performance.
We don't have any reason to believe that leasing is going to get dramatically better in the market than it is now.
Now if the economy really picked up in Europe it would get better because as you know leasing isn't doing much there.
It's pretty flattish.
But we don't see any reason to believe leasing is going to pick up a lot in general.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as you guys think about headcount additions lateral hires are you finding that people have elevated expectations for what it's going to take to pry them out of a peer or a competitor or are you having to step up to keep your good people with more money than you thought you would at this point in the cycle? The recruiting? Brokerage is in fact getting more competitive as it always does at this point in the cycle and we're noticing that.
We've had really good success this year.
A big part of the ability to recruit brokers is the platform that we bring them into the customer base you have the tools you have to support them with et cetera.
So that's -- and we've escalated our investment in brokerage support over the last couple of years and it's helping us.
But there's no doubt that the recruiting environment is getting more competitive a little more expensive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final one for me.
As you guys look at the let's call it the synergies around Norland but I guess more appropriately getting them into existing contracts that you've had for a while with customers.
How long should we expect it to take you guys to get Norland or the Norland services ported over to existing relationships where you're having to subcontract those services those competencies to somebody else besides Norland? Are we talking a year 2 years 3 years? Brandon the -- I would say a couple of things.
One as we noted on the call just a few minutes ago the integration with Norland with our Corporate Services business in EMEA which just happened this past quarter went really well.
That whole business is rolled within the Norland group now and there are a variety of opportunities.
But first and foremost I would say the existing business that we have has continued to grow.
Norland grows at a very nice clip so it's very active.
There's a lot of pursuits and you've seen our revenues in that business grow at a considerable clip and continue to do so.
Likewise Norland's own business that client base continues to grow at a considerable clip.
And so there's quite a bit to mine there in existing areas of focus and now kind of having a deeper offering to go after the larger clients together.
In addition to that there's some of the opportunities that you mentioned but -- and they're already happening.
But frankly the bigger opportunities are the ones that I just [indiscernible].
The next question is from David Ridley-Lane of Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So there was a pretty sizable step-up in the commercial mortgage brokerage business.
I think you had talked last quarter about that being modestly down for the year and I wanted to see if you had an update on your expectations for that service line for 2014? We still think it's going to be flattish to last year on a full year basis.
Research Division</strong> Is there any kind of color you can give on the spike here in the third quarter? Yes.
So on the third quarter there was -- there are 2 lender types that we work with right? Traditional lender banks the like and then the government-sponsored entities and in the government-sponsored entity side we will get servicing right gains where we get to recognize those.
They don't exist on the traditional side.
And it's a matter of mix.
So the mix shifted a little bit more to the GSE lenders this quarter than what we had a)expected and b)seen in Q2.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I know it's also a small service line but the Appraisal &amp; Valuation I think you had talked about being kind of flattish in 2014 and also had a very nice growth in the third quarter.
So update on your expectations for that service line this year.
Yes David this is Jim.
It has picked up a little bit in Q3.
It was -- but still relatively flat without some incremental contribution from acquisition of PKF.
Research Division</strong> Oh there's an acquisition in there? Yes.
But the base business itself has picked up a bit.
So where we thought it's going to be down for the year it's actually picked up and it's closer to flat year-over-year without the benefit of an acquisition.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then a little bit of...
And that's with regard to the Americas.
Outside of the Americas that business is growing quite nicely.
Research Division</strong> Quite nicely.
Okay.
And then a bit more of a theoretical question for you.
There are a couple of large U.S.
retailers facing particularly difficult conditions and so we could see some widespread store closings or perhaps these companies may enter a restructuring.
There's a lot of malls that could be losing anchor tenants.
And I was just kind of curious first how much exposure do you have into U.S.
retail and the capital markets and leasing services? And then second how have you worked with large-scale bankruptcies in the past say a Circuit City or a Borders? Well David first of all we have a nice sized retail business.
It's growing nicely.
But it's not -- the loss of the client -- by the way the companies that are subject to problems may or may not at any given time be a client of ours.
But in general the loss of a client or 2 wouldn't be material to our overall numbers and just as likely would result in new opportunity to re-lease the space that opened up so on and so forth.
So that kind of circumstance is not a major concern for us.
The next question is from Mitch Germain of JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> You guys seeing any pricing pressure in the Global Corporate Services business? All our businesses are competitive Mitch but the Global Corporate Services business is a very sophisticated integrated cell today and we have seen steady margins in that business for several years now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Bob or Jim I can't remember who answered the question about acquisitions and I might have missed the question and the answer but have there -- has the pricing expectation changed based upon some of the deals that we've seen close at some pretty attractive EBITDA multiples? We closed 5 infill acquisitions this quarter and they've all -- they were all within our standard pricing structure.
I would say on some of the larger transactions we are seeing some pricing pressure and we're just having to be more selective.
So in a couple of recent acquisitions we just passed early on.
But there's enough opportunity out there that you can be disciplined and maintain the type of pricing we've referenced in the past.
We have no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thanks everyone for joining us and we look forward to discussing our year-end results with you in about 90 days.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the CBRE fourth-quarter earnings call.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Steve Iaco with Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to CBRE's fourth-quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
About an hour ago we issued a press release announcing our Q4 2013 financial results.
This release is available on the home page of our website CBRE.com.
This conference call is being webcast and is available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Also available is a presentation slide deck which you can use to follow along with the prepared remarks.
An archived audio of the webcast and a PDF version of the slide presentation will be posted on our website later today and a transcript of our call will be posted tomorrow.
Please turn to the slide labeled Forward-Looking Statements.
This presentation contains that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements regarding our future growth momentum operations financial performance business outlook and ability to successfully integrate businesses we have acquired with our existing operations.
These statements should be considered as estimates only and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Except to the extent required by applicable securities laws we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forward-looking statements that you may hear today.
Please refer to our fourth-quarter earnings report filed on Form 8-K our current annual report on Form 10-K and our current quarterly report on Form 10-Q in particular for any discussion of risk factors and forward-looking statements which are filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's website sec.gov for a full disclosure of the risks and other factors that may impact any estimate that you may hear today.
We may make certain statements during the course of this presentation which include references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations.
As required by these regulations we have provided reconciliations of these measures to what we believe are the most directly comparable GAAP measures which are attached hereto within the appendix.
Please turn to Slide 3.
Participating with me today are Bob Sulentik our President and Chief Executive Officer and Gil Borok our CFO.
Please turn to Slide 4 as I turn the call over to Bob.
Thank you Steve.
As you've seen from our press release CBRE ended 2013 on a high note.
Despite lingering economic challenges and an uneven global recovery we generated double-digit revenue and adjusted earnings growth for the fourth quarter and full year.
During the quarter we were especially pleased to see further market share gains in our leasing and sales businesses supported by our investments in recruiting and in our platform.
We were also encouraged by a continued strong revenue rebound in EMEA and sustained growth within our occupier outsourcing business.
All this drove a very strong 22% rise in adjusted earnings per share for the quarter.
A strong final quarter of growth helped us reach new Company milestones as full-year revenue exceeded $7 billion and normalized EBITDA surpassed $1 billion for the first time.
Full-year 2013 adjusted EPS of $1.43 was in the middle of the annual guidance range we gave last February.
These are notable accomplishments that reflect the diligent efforts of our people to work together leveraging our brand and our global services offering to produce outstanding results for our clients.
We're very proud of the value they create for our clients and for our shareholders.
Please turn to Slide 5.
As always Gil will take you through the performance of our regions and business lines in detail.
On Slide 5 I'll briefly touch on some high points for the quarter.
For a second consecutive quarter we produced double-digit growth and strong market share gains in global leasing revenue with a notably sharp improvement in the Americas where our strategic investments to boost market share are clearly bearing fruit.
We achieved robust revenue growth in Global Investment Management fueled by significant carried interest revenue which we earn when we sell assets at values that exceed target return thresholds.
We saw continued strength in property sales particularly in oversea markets including Australia Brazil Germany Japan the Netherlands and the UK.
Modestly higher interest rates following the US Federal Reserve's long-anticipated tapering of monetary stimulus have had a negligible impact on investment activity.
Extending our successful long-term track record we made further strong revenue gains in our occupier outsourcing business while signing a record number of contracts with new customers.
We also had tremendous success in attracting top professionals to CBRE with a net addition of hundreds of professionals to our brokerage ranks during 2013 through strategic recruiting and in-fill M&amp;A.
This was one of our top priorities for 2013 and we believe it resulted in our strongest year of brokerage recruitment in the past decade.
While these new producers' contributions are not immediately reflected in our financial results they do help us set the table for strong market share growth later in 2014 and beyond.
The quarter was not without challenges.
These included the continuing weakness of currencies in Asia-Pacific which tempered our results in this region when it's translated into US dollars.
Also as described last quarter the pull-back in multi-housing lending from the government-sponsored enterprises or GSEs continued to have an adverse impact on the profitability and margins of our Americas business.
Overall the diversity and strength of our business base enabled us to generate significant top- and bottom-line growth in the fourth quarter and throughout 2013 while making vitally important investments in our people our platform and our service offerings.
Please turn to Slide 6 where you can see the strong revenue growth spread across our business lines for the full year.
Now please turn to Slide 7.
One of the key areas where we put our capital to work last year was in strategic M&amp;A.
Buying and integrating highly successful firms that are a good strategic fit and cultural fit as well is a core competency for CBRE.
In 2013 we invested approximately $545 million to acquire 11 companies.
By far the largest and most significant of these was Norland Managed Services which we purchased in late December for approximately $434 million.
Norland substantially bolsters our occupier outsourcing business in the EMEA by enabling us to self-perform building technical engineering services in this region and giving us market-leading expertise in the rapidly-growing critical environments market segment.
This is a very well run $630 million revenue business that has been historically growing at 20% per year and has a loyal blue-chip customer base with contract renewal rates better than 90%.
We are very enthusiastic about our growth prospects with Norland and in our initial month of working together we have already identified significant cross-selling opportunities.
We also made 10 in-fill acquisitions last year where we added a new capability or fortified an existing strength.
For example we purchased three property management companies in Europe and acquired five firms in the US including Fameco a leading retail specialist in the Mid-Atlantic region and CAC Group the market leader in brokerage and property management in downtown San Francisco.
We also purchased the remaining interest in our Brazil operation.
We continue to have an active pipeline of infill acquisitions and have already announced two such transactions in the first month of 2014 one in the southeastern US and the other in Germany.
With that I'll turn the call over to Gil who will review our financial results for the quarter.
Thank you Bob.
Please advance to Slide 8.
The fourth quarter of 2013 was a period of strong revenue growth.
Revenue rose 11% or 12% in local currency to more than $2.2 billion.
Of this amount 54% was recurring revenue reflecting the prominence of fee-based service lines in our business mix.
We define recurring revenue as property facilities and project management fees; asset management fees; loan servicing fees; and leasing commissions from existing clients.
Cost of services increased to 57.2% of revenue in the fourth quarter of 2013 versus 56.4% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The increase was primarily attributable to higher broker recruitment costs and related expenses somewhat in advance of revenue.
As Bob mentioned we are strategically expanding our ranks of brokerage professionals to drive long-term revenue growth.
In addition we experienced modestly increased commission splits as more producers achieved higher production levels.
As always we continue to manage operating expenses prudently even while investing to support growth.
This can be seen in a decrease in operating expenses to 28.6% of revenue from 29.8% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
In the fourth quarter of 2013 we benefited from a 36% decline in interest expense.
This was the result of refinancing activities earlier in the year which reduced Corporate debt by more than $500 million.
Depreciation and amortization expense rose by 18% to $53 million driven by increased capital expenditures in facilities and technology that are further strengthening our competitive positioning in the marketplace.
Amortization of previously capitalized amounts related to GSE mortgage servicing also contributed to this increase.
Our normalized tax right was 31% for the fourth quarter of 2013 versus 32% in last year's fourth quarter.
This lower rate was the result of ongoing tax planning efforts and the impact of a US state tax rate reduction.
The resulting full-year 2013 normalized tax rate was 35%.
We expect the full year 2014 normalized tax rate to be about the same.
Normalized EBITDA in the fourth quarter of 2013 grew by 12% over the prior-year quarter and margin increased by 10 basis points despite significant recruiting and other incremental investments in the Business.
Carried interest revenue of $56 million in the fourth quarter was largely offset by a number of other factors including a decline in Development Services profits the slowdown in GSE lending significant and unexpected legal and insurance costs and currency effects.
For full year 2013 normalized EBITDA margin also increased 10 basis points to 14.2% despite investments heavy recruiting and the aforementioned GSE legal insurance and currency effects.
Adjusted earnings per share rose 22% to $0.67 for the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the full year adjusted earnings per share grew 17% to $1.43 consistent with our annual guidance.
Continuing with our business review please turn to Slide 9.
Bob earlier alluded to the strength during the fourth quarter of our occupier outsourcing business called Global Corporate Service or GCS.
This business also achieved a high growth rate for the year with revenue rising 12% globally paced by a 14% improvement in the Americas.
The momentum in this business is being sustained by strong macro forces that are compelling major space occupiers to lower their real estate costs and improve operating efficiencies.
CBRE is well-placed to assist these occupiers by taking over responsibility for managing their real estate functions.
In 2013 we signed contracts with a record 96 new occupier outsourcing customers.
Our 32 new customer contracts in the fourth quarter was also a single quarter record for CBRE.
As we noted briefly on our third-quarter conference call our new contract with JPMorgan Chase for facilities transaction and project management services is one of our largest outsourcing assignments ever.
Also noteworthy is our new contract with MedStar Health the largest healthcare provider in the greater Washington DC area -- healthcare [in effect] that we believe has considerable head room for growth.
We had a particularly productive year in EMEA with 27 total contracts signed evident that the demand for outsourcing in overseas markets is continuing to build.
Globally we estimate that occupier outsourcing is a $50 billion to $60 billion potential market and believe there is tremendous upside as the current industry penetration is only about 15% to 20%.
Please turn to Slide 10.
We continue to achieve strong growth in the Americas our largest business segment.
Overall revenue increased 9% for the fourth quarter of 2013.
Leasing pace on growth in the Americas for the quarter was a 15% revenue gain reflecting our heightened focus on energizing the growth of this business line.
For the full year Americas leasing revenue rose 10%.
This is especially satisfying in light of the sluggish macro environment for leasing indicating that we continue to build market share.
Americas sales revenue rose 8% for the quarter versus flat volume for the industry according to Real Capital Analytics or RCA.
We remind you that the fourth quarter presented a tough comparison for us as well as the entire industry as tax-related selling led to a 32% revenue rise in last year's fourth quarter versus the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the full year CBRE's Americas sales revenue grew 15% and we captured the number one spot in RCA's Annual Investment Sales lead table for the eighth consecutive year with a 150 basis-point increase in market share.
Meanwhile our Americas property facilities and project management business continues to grow briskly.
Revenue in this business rose 9% or 10% in local currency for both the fourth quarter and the full year.
Please turn to Slide 11.
US markets fundamentals continue to improve steadily.
The last quarter of 2013 saw strong absorption particularly in office and industrial.
This reflects continuing low levels of new construction and slow but steady demand.
Our economists forecast continued strong absorption this year as demand improves in step with the economy.
Average national cap rates have contracted a bit across all property types as capital migrates to US commercial real estate from around the globe.
However we do expect cap rates to widen modestly and we expect to see some investment turn increasingly to secondary markets for yield.
Please turn to Slide 12.
The strong rebound of our EMEA revenue continued in the fourth quarter of 2013 with an increase of 21%.
This performance reflects our strategic moves to strengthen and diversify our service offering.
We were especially pleased with the growth of our property sales business where revenue improved 49% for the quarter.
Property sales in the United Kingdom were robust with growth of 57% reflecting our strong market position in Central London.
For full-year 2013 EMEA property sales revenue rose 36% outstripping the increase in overall market activities.
CBRE again topped the lead tables for property sales in the UK for 2013 according to Property Data.
In contrast to the investment market leasing markets in the EMEA are still soft and occupiers remain cautious.
Overall leasing revenue rose 4% for the fourth quarter of 2013 paced by double-digit growth in France and the UK.
For the full year leasing revenue rose a healthy 8% a very satisfying outcome considering that Eurozone leasing volume declined marginally during 2013.
This again highlights our success in building market share.
Finally EMEA registered robust growth in property facilities and project management revenue.
For the quarter revenue in this business line grew 25% with Spain the Netherlands and the UK leading the way.
For all of 2013 revenue in this business improved 21%.
Please turn to Slide 13.
Unfavorable currency trends once again marked mass strong revenue gains in Asia-Pacific in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Revenue improved 14% in local currency with contributions from Australia India and Japan but only 3% when translated into US dollars.
Property sales continued to rebound from a lackluster 2012.
During the fourth quarter of 2013 revenue from this business line surged 31% or 46% in local currency as Australia Hong Kong and Japan experienced robust growth.
This caps a strong year for property sales contributing to a 39% revenue gain for 2013 or 50% in local currency versus a 24% rise in investment market activity.
Unlike the investment market leasing markets across the region remain challenged.
Leasing revenue edged up modestly for both the quarter and the year in local currency but declined where translated into US dollars.
Similarly in property facilities and project management a healthy 9% revenue increase in local currency for the fourth quarter was negated by weak foreign exchange.
After translation into US dollars revenue in this business line fell 2% during the quarter.
For the full year revenue in local currency rose 11% reflecting increased adoption of outsourcing among occupiers and investors in the region.
Please turn to Slide 14.
The final quarter of 2013 was exceptionally strong for our Global Investment Management business.
Revenue rose 35% to $168 million compared with $124 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Most of this growth was attributable to carried interest which reflects the incremental revenue we earn as we self-fund assets at values that exceed return thresholds set with our investors.
While carried interest does not occur every year we have earned significant carried interest in half of the years over the past decade totalling over $300 million during this period.
We produced significant carried interest revenue in the second half of 2013.
With a very healthy sales environment in 2013 we harvested some assets that might otherwise might have been sold in 2014.
As a result we will realize very little carried interest revenue in 2014.
For the full year revenue increased 11% to $539 million resulting in $215 million of normalized EBITDA.
Please refer to the appendix for our reconciliation of normalized EBITDA and our accounting treatment for carried interest.
While the Investment Management business continues to perform well over all in the fourth quarter of 2013 we took a non-cash intangible asset impairment charge that relates to decreased values in one part of the European business that being open-ends.
These funds have experienced decline in assets under management or AUM as the business mix shifts towards separate accounts consistent with market movements following the extended financial crisis in Europe.
As investors withdraw capital from these funds they are often reinvesting them through our growing separate account program.
Nevertheless as a result of project sales and planned liquidations of certain funds we recorded a $98 million pre-tax non-cash charge against non-amortizable intangible assets.
The charge has been normalized.
It is important to note that normalized EBITDA from our Investment Management business in Europe has remained at or above the level of the combined CBRE ING REIM business at the time of the acquisition in 2011 even in light of the extended downturn in Europe.
Please turn to Slide 15.
We ended 2013 with $89.1 billion of total AUM up $1.5 billion from the end of the third quarter of 2013.
AUM was down $2.9 billion for the year reflecting our strategy to sell certain core assets and monetize a large US [fund].
AUM increase during the fourth quarter of 2013 was achieved even though we sold $2.4 billion of properties during the period.
These sales were more than offset by acquisitions of $2.1 billion combined with positive foreign exchange of $900 million and a $900 million net increase in portfolio values.
We expect continued AUM growth in 2014.
We have significant investment totalling $4 billion following a solid year of capital raising.
For full-year 2013 we raised $5 billion of new equity capital in the direct and fund-to-funds businesses.
This does not include approximately $5 billion of gross inflows into our Global Securities Business.
Fundraising was especially strong in the fourth quarter of 2013 with $2.5 billion of new commitments and we expect another strong year in 2014.
We see significant opportunities to put this capital to work for our investors.
Our core investments in this business at the end of the year totaled $170.3 million.
Please turn to Slide 16.
Revenue for the Development Services segment totaled $18.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
This was down from the same period in 2012 primarily because of lower development incentive fees and decreased rental revenue.
Normalized EBITDA fell to $21.8 million for the fourth quarter of 2013 due to lower gains on property sales in the current-year quarter.
EBITDA exceeded revenue because gains on the sale of property under GAAP accounting [flows through] the equity income or gain on disposition of real estate lines on our income statement rather than through revenue.
Full-year 2013 revenue in normalized EBITDA decreased to $61.1 million and $43 million respectively for the same reasons just mentioned for the quarter.
Development projects in process totalled $4.9 bill at year end 2013 up $700 million from the end of 2012 and down $300 million from the third quarter of 2013.
The inventory of pipeline deals totalled $1.5 billion down $600 million from year-end 2012 and down $100 million from the third quarter of 2013.
The shift from pipeline to in-process reflects recovering demand for Development Services as the economy improves.
Our equity co-investments in the Development Services business totalled $83.1 million at the end of 2013 while our recourse debt for this business stood at $7.2 million.
We believe our Development Services business is well-positioned to contribute strong profits over the next several years assuming the macro environment continues to be favorable.
Our strong liquidity position at December 31 2013 can be seen on Slide 17.
During 2013 we executed a carefully-planned debt refinancing program that further strengthened our balance sheet and provided additional capacity for future investments.
These actions included amending our present agreement to provide for $715 million of new term loans and to establish a $1.2 billion revolving credit facility; paying down our $450 million 11.625% senior subordinated notes which were due in 2017; tapping the capital markets for new $800 million of new 10-year 5% fixed-rate senior unsecured notes to take advantage of the low interest rate environment; and extending maturities well into the future.
All of these moves lowered our average interest rate by 60 basis points to approximately 5% at year-end 2013.
With our restructured balance sheet the annualized interest expense savings is expected to be approximately $50 million.
We believe these moves also leave us very well positioned to capitalize on future opportunities.
During the fourth quarter of 2013 we drew down our revolver by approximately $60 million to partially fund the Norland acquisition.
At year-end 2013 we had total of $143 million drawn on a revolver which has [available] capacity of $1.2 billion.
Please turn to Slide 18.
Our total net debt stood at approximately $1.5 billion at year-end 2013.
This is essentially flat with year-end 2013 even after investing approximately $545 million on acquisitions this year.
Our leverage ratio at year-end 2013 stood at 1.43 times on a covenant basis.
Total Company net-debt-to-normalized-EBITDA was 1.49 times a very lower level of leverage for us.
Now please turn to Slide 19 for Bob's closing remarks.
Thank you Gil and thanks also to our 44 000 CBRE professionals around the world.
Their focused commitment to our clients and dedication to excellence produced a banner year of growth and market share gains as well as strong returns for our shareholders in 2013.
As the market continues a slow but steady recovery we look ahead to 2014 with enthusiasm.
We have good momentum in most of our businesses and global market sentiment is generally more positive than it has been for several years.
Our outlook is further buoyed by signs of firmer economic growth in the US and Europe's emergence from a long slump.
While we remain conscious of continuing challenges particularly slowing economic growth in Asia-Pacific and recent anxieties over emerging market currencies we believe 2014 will be another year of solid growth for CBRE.
Our property sales business is expected to grow at a double-digit pace benefiting from a continued influx of capital into real estate and particularly an expansion of activity into secondary markets.
Interest rates remain attractive and the market has already priced in modestly higher rates as the US Federal Reserve continues to gradually withdraw monetary stimulus.
Our occupier outsourcing business is poised for continued double-digit growth before taking into account the Norland acquisition as the appetite for outsourcing leaches into new corners of the economy.
Vertical markets like healthcare and the public sector and especially niches like critical environments as well as oversea markets present fertile ground for growth.
The addition of Norland will expand and accelerate these activities in Europe.
Over the past few quarters our leasing business has demonstrated an ability to grow without much help from the macro environment.
In 2014 we look to benefit from some market lift as we further advance our strategic plan to increase market share and we expect mid- to high-single-digit growth in this business.
For GSE loan origination activity our current assumption is that volumes will be similar to 2013 although the regulatory limits if any for this year have yet to be announced.
Please turn to Slide 20.
Looking at our Business overall we expect our real estate services business globally to produce double-digit normalized EBITDA growth even before contributions from Norland.
Our combined principal businesses Global Investment Management and Development Services will likely perform in line with 2013 excluding carried interest.
We started 2013 with an expectation of approximately $55 million of carried interest for the year and $40 million of carried interest for 2014.
Approximately $30 million of the latter $40 million was actually realized in 2013.
Consequently we expect relatively little carried interest for this year.
Finally the benefit of lower interest expense will be largely offset by higher depreciation and amortization expenses.
Even with relatively little carried interest and continued investments in growth particularly in brokerage recruiting we expect to achieve earnings per share as adjusted in the range of $1.55 to $1.60 for 2014 implying a growth rate of 10% at the mid-point of this range.
We have not historically commented on the percentage distribution of our earnings by quarter.
However it has been quite consistent over the last four years with an average of 15% in the first quarter 23% in the second and third quarters and 39% in the fourth quarter.
We expect 2014 to be similar except that the shallow margin in Q1 may be disproportionately impacted by recruiting-related expenses and the pull-back in GSE lending which did not occur until the third quarter of 2013 will impact the first and second quarter's compare.
Thus we estimate that our earnings distribution in 2014 will be weighted slightly to the second half of the year relative to recent years.
Quarter-to-quarter fluctuations should not be considered an indication of performance for the year.
With that operator we'll take questions.
(Operator Instructions) We'll go to Anthony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Thanks good evening.
First question is Norland -- just to clarify -- is Norland in your guidance though?  It is Anthony it's Gil.
Hi.
So then double-digit EBITDA growth before Norland so you did about a $1 billion on the nose in 2013 so if I just say 10% that is a $1.1 billion.
And then Norland is $600 million $700 million at a margin that you typically see on your outsourcing business.
Is that -- is it fair to say that we're talking 15%-plus overall EBITDA growth in 2014?  Anthony sorry for if it was confusing but what the statement said was that we would have 10%-plus double-digit growth in our service business before Norland.
Service business not the total business and then Norland would be incremental.
It was not a commentary on the entire Company but on the service business.
Okay.
Got it.
Sorry about that.
No that 's okay.
Is there a way to quantify just the impact on your earnings for 2014 from all of the acquisition activity you have been doing including Norland?  The way I would answer that is we don't typically and won't comment on in-fill contributions.
We view that combined with organic so we've not traditionally done that because we look at growth through in-fills and organic.
But on Norland we have commented before in terms of the contribution that it was about a $600 million $700 million revenue base and it would be -- have margins consistent with our FM our Facilities Management business which is our stickiest revenue business but also a lot of margin business for us in that 7% range.
So you can do the math from there.
Okay and then I was a little bit surprised by the leasing outlook.
What's the drag on that business? Because it seemed like the last couple quarters that growth has bumped up a little bit?  Anthony this is Bob.
We actually are expecting to see good growth in leasing next year not as healthy as the growth we're going to see in investment properties but very good growth in leasing and we think it will be in the mid- to high-single-digits.
But what -- it seems to be coming down a little bit for the last couple of quarters.
Was the last couple of quarters just a bit of a bounce or--?  We had pretty extraordinary performance in leasing the last couple quarters.
We took a lot of market share.
We would love to see that happen again next year.
Our plan doesn't assume that it will be that aggressive.
But if you look at our leasing performance in 2013 versus the market it was pretty exceptional.
We're expecting next year to get a little lift from the market and to take a little market share but we're not planning that the amount of market share we will take will be as extreme as it was this year.
Okay and just last question on investment management.
It seems like you're expecting flattish there ex the carry but yet you talked about pretty good inflows it seems in raising new capital and also ties with your optimism on investment sales where you talked about a lot of money being moved into real estate.
I'm just wondering why that's not perhaps up?  Okay.
Well there are a number of things that go into the EBITDA that you generate in that business.
One of them is the placement of new capital and the fees associated with that.
But keep in mind the in-place amount of AUM in that business is down from where it was a year ago so the fees associated with that in-place base are going to be down a little bit and we're going to build that base up over the course of the year.
So that is essentially what we're reflecting there.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Anthony.
Next we'll go to the line of Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Thanks.
Bob you mentioned a little bit about maybe concentration of some of the transaction businesses within the higher compensated brokers.
Broadly across the transaction business in particular how we think about your ability to manage compensation especially as you keep going on recruiting? Should we expect pressure on that average comped to revenue ratio? Or is there other things going on there?  It is a great question and there is a couple things going on in that cost of services that you saw go up related to the brokerage business.
One is we did have a very big year in recruiting last year and the costs related to that recruiting hits the cost of services in our brokerage business.
So that was one of the pieces.
The other thing that went on last year was that the gateway markets around the world were the markets where we really saw pronounced activity in investment sales but also in leasing.
Those markets are typically characterized by very high-powered brokers and I'm talking about markets here in the US like New York Chicago LA Houston.
But also international markets like London which is obviously a very very prominent market; Tokyo where we have actually a disproportionate share of our Asia-Pacific business; and then in markets like Sydney and Melbourne in Australia.
The big brokers the senior brokers dominated in those markets the last couple of years.
That certainly was the case for us.
It had a bit of an upward impact on our cost of services along with the recruiting.
We don't think that's going to accelerate particularly next year but we don't expect to see any relief in that regard either.
Okay.
As a follow-on should we expect the hundreds of additional headcount this year through organic and acquired growth -- and it feels like it mostly showed up in the US in the transaction businesses -- should we assume that your recruiting efforts are mostly US-focused the same magnitude as we saw in 2013?  I don't know that we'll have the same degree of new recruits in 2014 as we had in 2013.
It's certainly a high priority.
We really ended up with an unusual amount of success.
It wasn't just the US.
We really had a lot of success in EMEA and in the United States.
It was spread between both of them.
By the way you'll see that start to come into our numbers in the second half of 2014 because as you know when brokers transition in the first part of their tenure with you a lot of those revenues are owed to the Company they came from.
You'll see a good year for us in brokerage recruiting this year.
I don't know that it will be as hefty as last year was but by the way as we said in our prepared remarks last year we don't have great records if you get back six or seven or eight years but we're fairly confident that was by a nice margin our biggest year in a decade.
So we don't have to repeat what we did last year to have a very good year.
Okay and with the [mortgage] origination business it sounds like you're assuming roughly flat total origination quotas for the agencies.
A two-part question.
One given what happened in the back half of the year have you done anything to change the cost structure or right-size the cost structure? And then relative to the full year should we expect it to look a little bit more normal in terms of the pacing of origination volumes and the agencies or is there something else going on that is going to shift it maybe away from Q3 this year and more into Q1 Q2 given how the quotas could work?  Hey Brandon it is Gil.
In terms of the cost structure other than our normal prudent cost management we haven't taken any other actions.
The reason is because most of the impact which of course is caused by a reduction in the GSE lending is an accounting anomaly right? Right.
Most of the results are the upfront recognition of the asset and related gain that slows as production slows.
So it's more that than for example servicing fees or loan origination fees which are healthy.
So to answer that question the answer is no and again reiterating that it is an accounting impact that is more of the impact than anything else.
And then with regard to the pacing just to be clear obviously if it stays flat and we don't have as Bob said in his remarks we don't know exactly what is going to happen so our working assumption is flat into the -- for a full year 2014 versus a full year 2013.
If that is the case the impacts will be flipped.
Q1 and Q2 of 2013 will be higher than Q1 Q2 of 2014 and then it will be more in line in the back half of the year because the reduction came in Q3 2013.
Right.
Okay.
And then final small one with all that carried interest pulled forward from 2014 into 2013 still safe to assume that in the back of the year the $10 million may show up given how you characterize the 2013 versus 2014 dynamics?  Yes we think that could show up this year but a big big diminution from last year because that $30 million pull-forward was very real.
Got it.
Okay thanks guys.
Appreciate it.
Next we'll go to the line of Mitch Germain with JMP Securities.
Just curious on -- Bob you mentioned deal flow in the pipeline -- are you skewed toward any specific region or capability?  Mitch what product line are you talking about?  You just mentioned just the acquisition pipeline in general?  Okay.
You made like a retail investment; you've done healthcare; obviously Norland and some of the other deals in Europe.
Is there anything specific that you're looking to strengthen as you look through the process?  Yes with regard to acquisitions we come at that in two ways.
We have a very well developed now Corporate development capability people that are trained to do acquisitions underwrite acquisitions negotiate acquisitions.
That capability is more significant than we've ever had -- certainly than we've had in many years.
In addition to that we have our businesses around the world our local business units trained to seek out and underwrite acquisitions and do the front-end part of that all regions of the world.
So we come at that from both directions.
What we expect is on a regular basis for opportunities to bubble up from around the world from our geographies.
We have seen a lot of that bubbling up in the US and in EMEA in the last year or so.
In Asia-Pacific what we've seen is opportunities with our network of affiliates that we already know very well and have thoroughly underwritten just through our work with them.
We don't expect that trend to change much in 2014.
We expect to see similar things; we expect to see a good number of opportunities.
One thing that has been added to the mix in the last year is that our Global Corporate Services business or our occupier outsourcing business has gotten to a scale where we're seeing opportunities directly through it and you saw KLMK last year obviously Norland last year.
We are continuing to see those kind of opportunities so I think that it will be spread among those areas again this year as it was last year.
We're seeing good opportunities in terms of being financially accretive and good opportunities in terms of being a solid strategic fit.
There is a second broadly-defined acquisition we do that everybody that follows us is very familiar with and that is the big strategic acquisitions.
There has been a handful of them in the last 12 or 13 years.
There was Insignia; there was Trammell Crow Company; there was ING; and then last year there was Norland.
Those tend to come along every few years.
You can never be sure exactly where they'll come from.
We expect they will still come along every few years and we have our eyes out for those but those things don't happen every year or every other year typically.
Great.
I appreciate that.
And any specific projects in terms of capital investment for the year or along the lines of what we've seen in capital spend over the last couple of years Gil?  Yes it is along the same lines.
We will -- our spend is in two areas -- technology and facilities -- and that's exactly what we're expecting.
We may see a bit of a shift as we move -- as industry moves more toward software as a services and so forth.
We may see some shift from CapEx that then gets depreciated to P&amp;L more front-end loaded.
It is not material but we do see a bit of a trend shift in that regard.
But the categories are facilities and IT.
Great.
Thanks.
Sure.
And the last question will come from David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Sure.
Just trying to get an impact on EPS or EBITDA from the carried interest in 2013 so we can have a gauge of the headwind you face in 2014?  Okay.
In 2013 we had planned to generate carried interest in the $75 million to $80 million range.
The carried interest we actually experienced--  It was $55 million Bob.
For the whole year?  Yes.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
I gave you the amount we [get] -- we expected to generate around $55 million for the whole year.
We ended up generating around $85 million.
I went at it backwards.
We ended up generating about $30 million more than we expected during the year.
That was dollar-for-dollar pulled forward from 2014.
So what would have otherwise -- so you might say our profitability was bolstered in 2013 by that amount and diminished in 2014 by that amount.
There's another thing that is really important -- and now you say well where did that show up in our earnings in 2013? Our earnings played out for the year very much as we expected very much as we expected.
As you know we gave you a range of $1.40 to $1.45 and we ended up $1.43.
What offset that incremental $30 million of carrier than we expensed in 2013 was $43 million of the following -- and these are very exact numbers because they came on us in a very real way.
Number one we had legal insurance costs mostly loaded in the fourth quarter.
And number two we had this decline in OMSRs which went to the straight to the bottom line on EBITDA which added up between them to be $43 million more than we experienced in those items or have a $43 million detrimental impact on our EBITDA line versus a year earlier.
By the way all of that lost EBITDA was in our services business and all of the gained EBITDA from carry was obviously in our principal businesses.
So you can look at that and very directly see the impact that it had on last year's earnings and how we should expect that to play out in terms of an impact on this year's earnings.
Okay.
So the $85 million in actual carried interest in 2013 that goes against your expectations of plus or minus $10 million for 2014?  Roughly.
Okay.
And then since you still have two quarters of -- ahead of you before you anniversary the GSE issues is that -- how much of a drag would that be in the first half?  We expect that to be roughly flat year-over-year.
Flat in terms of volumes or flat in terms of profitability?  Yes I understand the question you're asking.
You're asking what would be the negative impact in the first half of the year.
We're not going to comment on that specifically publicly but you can assume there is not a back-end loading necessarily of the OMSR gains the way there would be let's say in our brokerage business.
It is not quite ratable but it's more ratable than the brokerage business so you would have in essence a potentially inverse effect in Q1 and Q2.
But again I caution David that we just don't know the guidance for 2014 and so we're no better off than you are in terms of trying to predicting this because we've got a working assumption.
Got it.
And then I know you have a negative mix impact on margins from Norland but on an underlying EBITDA margin basis would you expect to be up on your EBITDA margin ex Norland in 2014?  Ex Norland and ex our principal business David so take them out of the mix and look at the rest of our services business globally we expect those margins to expand slightly.
Got it.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thanks David.
And we do have a follow-up from the line of Anthony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Yes thanks.
I just wanted to follow up on that because I got a little confused and I want to make sure I'm getting this right.
On the carried interest it is $86.2 million in 2013 and that's what goes to $10 million in 2014? Am I getting that right?  Yes.
Yes.
Then is there a way to give a sense though in 2013 just to understand some of the margin stuff in the P&amp;L of that $86.2 million how much was up in revenue versus coming in through equity and earnings?  No it is all revenue Anthony that doesn't come through equity earnings.
Okay but then what about the development gains and the gains that come through equity and earnings do you have a total for 2013 for that number as well? The way I would approach it is I would -- and you're right that does come through equity earnings and gains the gain line in the P&amp;L -- more or less what drives the year-over-year difference is the gains that would come below the revenue line -- what's in revenue is more recurring development service fees.
There are some incentive fees but materially just look at the year-over-year diminution and that will more or less give you directionally what the reduced gains are in 2013 versus 2012.
Okay is there a way to protract that out to 2014? What I'm getting at is there on the development side of the gain business is there anything we have to think about in terms of resetting the baseline for 2014?  Well what we said Anthony was that if you exclude carried interest you have the earnings for the Investment Management business for the full year 2013; you have the earnings for the development business for full year 2013; and we've said relatively flat for those two businesses.
I don't want to get into one or the other but if you're modeling the two principal businesses will be relatively flat ex the impact of carried interest which we've talked about $86 million and $10 million.
Okay.
Got it.
Thank you.
Sure.
And no one is in queue with a question.
Any closing remarks gentlemen?  No.
Thank you very much for being on our call and we'll talk to you again in three months.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Greetings and welcome to CBRE Group’s first quarter 2015 earnings call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It’s now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Iaco Investor Relations for CBRE.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Thank you and welcome to CBRE’s first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Earlier today we issued a press release announcing our financial results for the first quarter of 2015.
This release is available on the homepage of our website www.cbre.com.
This conference call is being webcast and is available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Also available there is a presentation slide deck which you can use to follow along with our prepared remarks.
An audio archive of the webcast will be posted to the website later today and a transcript of our call will be posted tomorrow.
Please turn to the slide labeled forward-looking statements.
This presentation contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These include statements regarding CBRE’s future growth momentum operations financial performance business outlook our adjusted earnings per share expectations our normalized tax rate expectations expectations regarding our currency hedging and government-sponsored enterprise lending activities and our ability to close and integrate the Global Workplace Solutions acquisition including the timing of that closing.
These statements should be considered to be estimates only and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Except to the extent required by securities laws we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forward-looking statements you may hear today.
For a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any forward-looking statements please refer to our first-quarter earnings report filed on Form 8-K and our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K.
These reports are filed with the SEC and are available at www.sec.gov.
During the course of this presentation we may make certain statements that refer to non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations.
Where required by these regulations we have provided reconciliations of these measures to what we believe are the most comparable GAAP measures.
These reconciliations can be found within the Appendix of this presentation or in our earnings release.
Please turn to page 3.
Participating on our call today are Bob Sulentic our President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Groch our Chief Financial Officer and Global Director of Corporate Development; and Gil Borok our Deputy Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer.
During our remarks all references to percentage increase or decrease in revenue are in local currency except for consolidated results or where otherwise noted.
Now please turn to slide 4 as I turn the call over to Bob.
Thank you Steve.
Good morning everyone.
The opening months of 2015 have been an exciting time for CBRE on a number of fronts.
As you saw in our press release the strong momentum in our business continued in the first quarter with double-digit growth on the top and bottom lines.
The strong increase in adjusted earnings per share is especially notable during a quarter when analysts are expecting average earnings for S&amp;P companies to be down over last year.
In these results we are seeing the impact of our strategy to drive growth by enhancing our service offering for clients strengthening the platform that enables our professionals to deliver market-leading solutions augmenting our talent pool through strategic recruiting and targeted M&amp;A and continuing our focus on balance sheet strength which supports investments in our people and platform while providing financial flexibility.
Strong broker recruiting has continued into the first quarter of 2015 as talented professionals recognize the many advantages CBRE affords them both in meeting the full spectrum of client needs and in building their careers.
The first quarter performance of the leasing and sales businesses particularly in the Americas reflects our recruiting success over the past two years and continued increased production by our existing transaction professionals as our largest business segment the Americas is benefiting significantly from our strategy and was a primary growth catalyst during the quarter.
The region posted its third consecutive quarter of at least 20% revenue growth along with strong normalized EBITDA growth and healthy margin expansion.
Asia-Pacific also performed well with double-digit revenue growth before the effects of currency translation.
Growth slowed in Europe Middle East and Africa and turned negative in US dollar terms as we faced a challenging comparison against last year’s robust first quarter.
We have completed two in-fill acquisitions this year that bolster our service offering.
The first was United Commercial Realty a highly regarded firm that serves retailers and retail property investors across the US.
The second which we closed two weeks after the end of the first quarter was Environmental Systems Inc.
an energy management specialist that complements the array of services offered by our global corporate services business.
Finally and very importantly as you all are aware we announced an agreement in late March to acquire the Global Workplace Solutions business from Johnson Controls.
This is a significant strategic move for CBRE.
It will vastly expand our ability to self-perform facilities management services on a worldwide basis particularly for more technically oriented facilities and it will deepen our relationships with some of the world’s largest corporations.
In the days following the news we have had an enthusiastic reaction from the employees of both companies from our shareholders and most significantly from our clients.
The regulatory approval process is underway and we look forward to completing the transaction later this year and welcoming John Murphy and the GWS employees from more than 50 countries from around the world.
We are also excited about our strategic partnership with Johnson Controls which will enhance our ability to bring innovation and value to our clients.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Jim who will describe our first quarter performance in more detail.
Thank you Bob.
Please turn to slide 5.
As Bob indicated CBRE is off to a strong start in 2015.
Normalized EBITDA of $247 million reflected a 24% increase in the first quarter of 2015 and a 17% margin on fee revenue up 200 basis points from Q1 2014.
Adjusted earnings per share improved 28% for the quarter.
Both revenue and fee revenue rose 10% or 15% in local currency.
These results followed a strong first quarter in 2014.
The results include approximately $13 million pre-tax or $0.02 after tax of net gains from foreign currency movement after the impact of currency hedging activities for the year.
Together our three regional service segments the Americas EMEA and Asia-Pacific achieved significant operating leverage for the quarter even after excluding currency hedging gains.
This was driven by the Americas which benefited from strong growth across all business lines.
We also saw a resurgence of origination activity and gains from related servicing rights associated with US Government-sponsored entities which produced EBITDA growth of slightly more than $20 million over prior year Q1.
Normalized depreciation and amortization expense increased approximately $8 million driven by increased platform investments and higher mortgage servicing rights while net interest expense decreased about $2.5 million from Q1 2014.
Our normalized tax rate was 36.5% for the quarter higher than the 35% we expect for the full year of 2015.
Our net debt declined by $275 million or half a turn to 1.2 times trailing 12-month normalized EBITDA at end of Q1 2015 as compared to Q1 2014.
Reflecting our increasingly strong financial position Moody’s raise its rating on our senior secured and senior unsecured debt to investment grade in March.
This followed Standard and Poor’s upgrade of our corporate user rating to investment grade late last year.
Please turn to slide 6 for a review of our performance in each of our global lines of business in Q1.
Our capital markets businesses were particularly strong performers.
Property sales revenue increased 21% with the US up strongly and single-digit growth in EMEA and Asia-Pacific.
Meanwhile mortgage services recorded its best growth in three years spurred by the jump in GCS activity.
Leasing reported 13% revenue growth globally the seventh consecutive quarter of double-digit increases.
This growth was paced by continued strong market share gains in the U.S.
Global corporate services continued to grow at a double-digit clip.
Excluding related transaction revenues which are accounted for in leasing and sales GCS achieved a 13% increase in revenue and 12% in fee revenue with double-digit growth in all three regions.
Assets services saw solid growth with revenue up 12% and fee revenue up 8%.
The global valuations business saw revenue up 20%.
Growth in the US was supported by acquisitions which have enhanced and expanded the services we can offer clients.
Global investment management revenue rose by 5% driven by higher carried interest compared with last year’s Q1.
Contractual fee revenue comprised 39% of total fee revenue for Q1 while contractual fee revenue plus leasing which is largely recurring totaled 70%.
Property sales accounted for 21% of total fee revenue.
Please turn to slide 7 where I will review Q1 results for our three regional service segments starting with the Americas.
Overall revenue for the Americas rose by 21%.
This region’s revenue has now grown by double digits for 10 consecutive quarters.
Every major business line posted double-digit growth for the quarter.
Capital markets set a brisk pace with property sales revenue up 32% and mortgage services up 43%.
We are pleased to have again achieved the highest market share in the US investment sales according to RCA with a 200 basis point improvement over prior year Q1.
Leasing again logged vigorous growth with revenue up 19% while market conditions continued to steadily improve.
We are seeing tangible benefits from our broker recruiting and in-fill M&amp;A along with increased productivity from our existing producers.
Fee revenue from global corporate services and asset services combined increased 12%.
Please turn to slide 8 regarding EMEA.
EMEA revenue rose 6%.
This region faced a particularly tough compare with last year’s exceptionally strong Q1 when revenue increased 27% excluding contributions from Norland.
Nevertheless we saw a growth in global corporate services and asset services.
Combined fee revenue increased 9% with double-digit growth in facilities management reflecting the growing appetite for real estate outsourcing within the region.
Property sales revenue rose 6% on top of a 54% surge in last year’s Q1.
Growth was driven by Belgium Germany Ireland Spain Sweden and the United Kingdom.
Property leasing revenue declined 6%.
A number of smaller countries on the continent saw improved activity.
This was more than offset by decreases relative to Q1 of last year in France and the United Kingdom.
Please turn to slide 9 regarding Asia-Pacific.
We saw strong growth in the region with overall revenue rising 15% for the quarter.
Like EMEA global corporate services and asset services set the pace for growth in the region.
Fee revenue improved 12% as outsourcing continues to make inroads in the region.
Greater China and India showed particularly strong growth in Q1.
Leasing revenue rose solidly increasing by 8%.
Most of this growth occurring in Australia and New Zealand.
Property sales rose 3% on top of 38% growth in the prior year Q1 with significant gains in Australia.
The investment climate across Asia-Pacific is mixed amid a shortage of available product in some markets slowing economies and domestic capital that is increasingly migrating to the US and Europe in search of yield.
Please turn to slide 10 regarding our occupier outsourcing business which we call global corporate services.
Resulting from this global business line are reported within the three regional services segments.
Global corporate services has increased revenue at a double-digit compounded annual growth rate over the last decade.
Its growth is being sustained by CBRE’s unique ability to deliver globally integrated solutions.
Closely linking our outsourcing services with our market-leading brokerage professionals who completed $285 billion of sales and leasing transactions in 2014 gives us distinct advantages in creating value for our clients both locally and globally.
We experienced continued strong growth in Q1 2015 signing 58 total contracts and bringing on more new customers than in any previous quarter.
International markets remained fertile ground for growth with 19 contracts signed in Asia-Pacific and EMEA.
Earlier in the call Bob mentioned the ESI acquisition.
ESI is a leading systems integrator and provider of energy management services.
It remotely monitors and analyzes energy usage in real time for more than 180 million square feet of facilities.
This is a strategic addition to our global services corporate offering.
Since announcing the acquisition we have significant incremental interest from our clients regarding energy and sustainability services.
We anticipate ESI will bring added value to our new clients coming over from global workplace solutions when it closes which we expect to be later this year.
Please turn to slide 11 regarding our global investment management segment.
Revenue was up 5% and normalized EBITDA rose 16% in local currency driven by carried interest.
Local currency assets under management was unchanged compared with year-end 2014 and up more than $5 billion from the first quarter of 2014.
However the weakening of the euro and British pound sterling caused AUM to decrease to $87.1 billion from year-end 2014 when converted to U.S.
dollars.
Capital rising totaled $1.3 billion for the quarter and $8.7 billion for the trailing four quarters with strong pipeline for the remainder of the year.
Please turn to slide 12 regarding our development services segment.
You recall we completed outsized asset sales in last year’s Q1.
With fewer sales in this year’s Q1 pro forma revenue and EBITDA declined from a year ago.
We expect sales activity to also be lighter in Q2 and weighted toward the back half of the year.
Our pipeline stood at $3.6 billion at the end of Q1 2015 a decrease of approximately $400 million from year-end 2014.
Projects in process totaled $5.5 billion up $100 million from year-end 2014.
As of Q1 2015 our equity co-investments in the development business totaled $121.5 million and our guarantees on outstanding debt balances stood at just $11.9 million.
Please turn to page 13 as I turn the call back over to Bob for closing remarks.
Thanks Jim.
CBRE accomplished a great deal in the first few months of 2015.
First we announced our largest acquisition in eight years which when completed will materially advance our strategy for serving occupiers.
Second we continue to make investments in our people and platform to enhance our competitive position.
And third we again generated outstanding financial results for our shareholders.
Our 52 000 professionals are extremely hard-working and intensely focused on harnessing the full breadth of CBRE’s resources and expertise to create great outcomes for our clients.
We thank you them for their contributions to our success.
Needless to say we’re pleased with our start to 2015.
However it’s important to bear in mind that the first quarter comprises a relatively small portion of our annual revenue and earnings and as we have often said it may not be an effective barometer of full year performance.
What’s more our currency hedges are marked-to-market each quarter and at current rates the hedging gains we realized in the first quarter will be offset by currency translation losses in future quarters.
Similarly we can expect GSE lending activity which moved robustly in the quarter to taper off later this year as regulatory caps come into play and other lenders step up their activity.
In light of this we are maintaining our expectations for adjusted earnings per share of $1.90 to $1.95 for 2015 an increase of 15% over 2014 at the midpoint of our estimate.
There is good underlying momentum in our business and the advantages we enjoy as the global market leader are becoming more pronounced as we continue to invest in our people our platform and our service offering.
Increasingly investors and occupiers are gravitating to CBRE due to our ability to deliver high-quality globally integrated solutions that leverage the industry’s top talent to create real competitive advantages for our clients around the world.
Operator we’ll now open the lines for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is coming from Anthony Paolone from JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning.
My first question is on your OpEx if I look at that as a percentage of revenue it was 25.9% and last year in the first quarter it was about 28.4% so down about 250 bps year-over-year and I was wondering if you could comment if there was anything in there taking that down or if that’s kind of the magnitude of where it should run over the balance of the year? Hi.
It’s Gil.
Good morning.
If you recall with the acquisition of Norland we had a shift of part of those services to OpEx and that’s part of the reason why we’re running at a 25% [revenue] and – what used to be closer to 30%.
And we also had the foreign currency gains that showed up in OpEx so that’s where it shows up in our P&amp;L and that helped reduce it as a percentage of revenue.
So it’s not a run rate but we’ll run lower than we have historically.
But Norland closed late in 2013 I thought so would that have not fully been in the first quarter of 2014 numbers or how does that work? You are correct.
I was just giving you a context of why we’re running closer to 25% than sort of the 30% we had historically but it was in the numbers in Q1 you’re correct.
So the currency gain to adjust for that I guess you mentioned in the release about $0.02 I guess pre-tax with $10 million or something in that zip code? $13 million pre-tax yes.
$13 million? Yes.
Okay.
Thanks.
Then second question on the leasing side if you look at your Americas leasing growth it was very strong and same with JLL’s yesterday.
Yet the commission pot if you will seemed to be modestly down in terms of the marketplace.
So I was just wondering is that all share gain and is that level of share gain sustainable because it just seems pretty substantial? Hi Anthony this is Jim Groch.
A couple of things I would say to that.
One is that the – I think the research on leasing is uneven but I would say it’s more likely that we have really seen in – the market is up slightly versus the same quarter last year.
And then I do think the share gains are sustainable as you continue to see the industry consolidate.
Okay.
And then the last question on the facilities business.
How does – what part of that cost structure is naturally hedged in local currency versus perhaps being in the US? I ask because I think it’s your lowest margin business you do have a lot of it coming from outside of the US so I’m just wondering what the real impact on margins currency may have on the business or it’s naturally hedged by way of where the costs emanate? Yes you’re correct Anthony.
The vast majority of it is naturally hedged so you see the impact primarily on revenue.
And then we hedge the majority of our anticipated EBITDA and as a result we don’t have a lot of exposure there.
Okay that’s all I got.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Operator Our next question today is coming from Brad Burke from Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
Congratulations on the quarter.
I was hoping I could get an update on how you are thinking about in-fill M&amp;A going forward from here? I would have thought that with the GWS acquisition that would have put you on the sidelines to some extent but it seems like you are still being active.
So I wanted to understand how you are thinking about further M&amp;A investment and how we ought to think about how far you are willing to push leverage in order to make those acquisitions? Hi Brad.
This is Jim.
We’ll continue to work on infill acquisitions and as you have seen us do you know it may slow down slightly but that’s just if it doesn’t it’s just a result of activity level with you know the large deal that will be integrating but we continue to pursue and execute M&amp;A.
As far as the impact on our leverage we gave guidance that we expected our leverage ratio to end the year at 1.7 or so obviously that’s an estimate but that includes some anticipated in-fill.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then on EMEA I know talked about this but – and I realize FX was a big driver of the decline in revenue but presumably this was also a big impact for the fourth quarter and you were – would have put up pretty solid growth with fourth quarter year-over-year.
So I’m trying to understand how much of the decline is attributed to more difficult comps versus Q1 2014 how much is a bigger FX headwind versus last quarter and really trying to get at whether or not you are seeing any actual deceleration in this business once you take into account those considerations? Brad this is Bob.
FX took our revenue growth down significantly in the EMEA this quarter but we were dealing with a very very strong compare relative to last year so that was a big part of what you saw.
The other thing to keep in mind is the first quarter is a relatively small part of the year so in any region and particularly in Europe and Asia which are smaller than the US you can have a few things move from one quarter or the next or be pulled into one quarter from to the previous quarter and it changes your trajectory and numbers pretty materially.
So I think those are really the three things I would look at: FX small quarter and really very very difficult compare from last year.
Okay that’s helpful.
The last one for me a follow-up to Tony’s question on margins the improvement that you saw particularly in the Americas obviously a lot of that is due to mark-to-market and the hedging you highlighted.
You also a big pickup in the GSE activity.
If you were to normalize for FX and the GSE impact could you give us a sense of how much of the margin improvement you saw versus Q1 last year how much of that is to those two factors versus a sustainable run rate improvement in margins? We still had operating leverage even without both – even without the benefit of the gains from servicing and the hedging.
So we gave guidance at the end of Q4 that we had picked operating leverage of about 50 basis points in our three regional businesses in 2014 and that we were anticipating continued operating leverage for the year in 2015 probably in the similar range.
Okay.
I thought the guidance was that you were expecting a deceleration from the 50 basis points of operating leverage that you had last year or – is there more upside versus when you had given it to us last time or is that the same? I think we said it might be down slightly from the 50 basis points at the end of last year so we’re not really changing that guidance.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Brandon Dobell from William Blair.
Please proceed.
Within the investment management business maybe a little color on what kind of capital and where it’s coming from that you guys raised this quarter and then is there any notable fee or pricing pressure on the capital you are raising versus the previous quarter or previous year? Brandon we have a pretty good picture in terms of capital raising around the world right now certainly raising capital here in the US and in Europe.
In terms of fee pressure what you are seeing is some shift in Europe from funds to separate accounts separate accounts have lower fees so that’s been in our business.
But there is a good amount of capital around the world coming into the business.
We’ve raised capital in Asia we’ve raised capital in Europe and we’ve raised capital here.
We expect to have a very strong year in the last 12 months obviously $9 billion and we expect this year to play out similarly and we expect to see it coming from around the world.
Okay.
Digging into the EMEA for a second particularly the UK how does it feel momentum-wise for the transaction businesses in the UK? Maybe you could remind us if there is anything from last year within either EMEA transactions or really UK transactions that would set up a strange comparison through the balance of this year excluding foreign currency? Just focus more on the fundamental business and how you feel the pipelines look the rest of the year? As you saw in EMEA sales were up over last year leasing was down and again the compare last year I think revenue without Norland was up in the region in total 27% last year so – and then the capital markets was up substantially more than that.
I wouldn’t point to any specific deals moving in one direction or another but just the compare is really the key issue there.
Overall all the markets are still quite strong if you look – in particular if you look back as to kind of what they have been doing over the last two years of Q1.
If you were to compare either the structure of the corporate services contracts you are signing or how they have changed over the past couple of years in the US versus EMEA is there any notable difference in terms of how corporates or even I guess occupiers are acting relative to tying together or your success at tying together the various services lines in those two geographies? Occupiers are really looking for us to self-perform technical services and that was a big part of the motivation for estimating the GWS acquisition and they are looking for us to be more and more connected around the globe so deep in all parts of the globe that was another motivation for us to do that.
So that’s the trend.
We have seen it for years.
It’s continuing in that direct and so we have to have an offering that’s consistent with that and our GWS acquisition does that in a big way.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from David Ridley Lane from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
How much of the strength in capital markets would you say was 2014 deals going into 2015 ? Or said differently are the volume trends you saw this quarter more reflective of 2014’s trend or the pipeline that you see ahead of you in 2015? David I don’t think what we saw in the first quarter this year was spill-over from deals that didn’t get closed last year.
First of all it’s really important to remember it’s just one quarter and it’s the smallest quarter of the year so any kind of movement can seem large relative to the first quarter.
We expect to see decent growth this year over last year here in the US and in Europe lesser growth in Asia-Pacific more capital moving around the world.
What we saw in the first quarter is the percentage of the capital that went into deals here in the US from outside the US was about 50% higher than it was on a run-rate basis last year so you see more of that global movement.
You see a really healthy demand for real estate because of the improving fundamentals but I don’t think that we can read too much into the first quarter that would cause us to think the year is going to play out differently than we thought 90 days ago and I don’t think what we saw in the first quarter was anything tied to end of year last year one way or the other.
Got it.
Within Americas capital markets you know over the last 12 months have you seen the trend towards tier 2 tier 3 cities are they having faster growth than the major markets? And as you have talked to investors and gauged their appetite are investors increasingly looking for – outside the tier 1 cities? Thanks.
They are definitely looking outside the tier 1 cities for yield obviously and for just plain old product.
There’s a limitation on product in places like San Francisco and New York so they are moving into the second-tier cities they are finding product they’re finding product they’re getting higher yields and we expect that to continue.
That plays very well into our business model because we are deep in capital markets in those second-tier cities.
Just a quick numbers question if you have it the revenue run rate for environmental services? We’ve not published that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is a follow-up from Anthony Paolone from JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
I just wanted to clarify Jim I think you had mentioned a number of $285 million related to – I think it was sales in 2014 from perhaps facilities management type of clients? I just want to understand what that was I didn’t catch the whole thing? Sorry just noted that our business overall our transaction business overall completed $285 billion of transactions in 2014 and I was just making the comment that the real strength of that outsourcing business is to have both the transaction and the non-transaction services to be able to bring to bear for our clients regardless of where they may be around the world.
Okay so that was a total number that wasn’t just related to clients from facilities? No.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is a follow-up from Brad Burke from Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Just a modeling question on FX.
Gil I think you said there was a $13 million mark-to-market hedging benefit so I guess you would call that maybe $0.04 of EPS benefit and I guess the $0.02 that you indicated in your press release is net of the headwinds that you saw? So if I’m interpreting that right about a $0.02 headwind on FX before the benefit from hedging and I was hoping that you could give us some sense of how we ought to be thinking about that FX headwind on a go-forward basis? Yes so Brad the $13 million is a net number it’s the hedging gains less transaction losses and that’s a pre-tax number.
So when you tax-effect it that’s the $0.02 net favorability.
Okay.
Are you able to give me a gross number on the hedging benefit versus the translation losses? No.
We’re not going to disclose that.
Okay.
That’s fine.
Then another modeling one.
The GSE business you mentioned the regulatory caps is there any reason to think that the GSE business would be up in total year-over-year in 2015 and do you have any thoughts on why they were so fast out of the gate this year? Brad this is Jim.
We do expect our business to be up year-over-year and they’ve been – the GSEs have been very competitive and they have put out a lot of money and we do expect it to be up year-over-year.
At the current pace they are likely to hit their caps the four-year end which could slow things down toward the end of year unless the caps are increased.
But either way we’re expecting it to be up.
Okay so they did not hit the caps in 2014 and you think they hit the caps before the end of 2015? I believe they roughly put out what they had the capacity to do in 2014 but at the pace they are going now they’re off to such a fast start that they could hit the caps earlier in the year.
Okay so the total year-over-year increase is attributed to non-GSE commercial mortgage or a view on an increase in the caps? Even without the increase in the caps we think their lending will be up over last year.
All right.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
The next question is a follow-up from Brandon Dobell from William Blair.
In the deck you referenced 180 million square feet that you’ve got energy management services now with ESI or maybe it’s a bigger number as you combine it with other energy management services offerings you have.
How do we think about let’s call it the addressable market for those energy management services and any sense of how that business model looks relative to the rest of property and facilities management in terms of recurring revenue operating margins those kind of things? It’s Jim.
We think it’s a great business model and that there’s enormous opportunity out there.
It’s still a relatively small business for us as compared to the overall size of the business but it’s an important service for our clients.
It’s a very strong business model and the growth profile is quite good.
Okay.
Then last one from me.
As you think about Canada from both an FX perspective but just leasing and sales transaction volumes how do we think about that as a headwind or not the balance of the year in the Americas? First of all Brandon it’s a quite small part of our business relative to the whole of the Americas so it won’t have a material impact.
We wouldn’t want to predict what is going to happen with currency there.
We have a very good business in Canada we expect it to grow this year nicely but we don’t expect movements in currency to impact our numbers and we don’t expect on the margin what goes on in Canada to have a really big impact on the trajectory of our Americas business overall.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have reached the end of our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any further closing comments.
Thanks everyone for joining us and we’ll talk to you in three months.
Thank you.
That does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today.
Welcome to the CBRE Second Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Steve Iaco with investor relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you and welcome to CBRE's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Earlier today we issued a press release announcing our financial results for the quarter.
This release is posted on the homepage of our website CBRE.com.
This conference call is being webcast and is available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
A presentation slide deck which you can use to follow along with our prepared remarks can also be found there.
An audio archive of the webcast will be posted on the website later today and a transcript of our call will be posted tomorrow.
Please turn to the slide labeled forward-looking statements.
This presentation contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These include statements regarding CBRE's future growth momentum operations financial performance business outlook adjusted earnings per share expectations expectations regarding our Government Sponsored Enterprise lending activities the timing of incentive fee realizations and our ability to close and integrate the Global Workplace Solutions acquisition including the timing of that closing.
These statements should be considered estimates only and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Except to the extent required by securities laws we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forward-looking statements you may hear today.
For a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any forward-looking statements please refer to our second quarter earnings report filed on Form 8-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and annual report on Form 10-K.
These reports are filed with the SEC and are available at SEC.gov.
During this presentation we may make certain statements that refer to non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations.
Where required by these regulations we may provide reconciliations of these measures to what we believe are the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
Those reconciliations together with explanations of these measures can be found within the appendix of this presentation or in our earnings release.
Please turn to slide 3.
Participating on the call today are Bob Sulentic our President and Chief Executive Officer; Jim Groch our Chief Financial Officer and Global Director of Corporate Development and Gil Borok our Deputy Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer.
During our remarks all references to the percentage increase or decrease in revenue are in local currency except where otherwise noted.
Now please turn to slide 4 as I turn the call over to Bob.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
CBRE's excellent start to 2015 extended into the second quarter.
Our business exhibited broad strength around the world and we continue to execute our strategy and our people create real competitive advantages for our clients.
We were pleased to once again produced double-digit growth rates on the top and bottom lines.
Our growth was especially impressive coming at a time when foreign currency exchange rates worked against us significantly.
In local currency our increases of 19% in revenue and 22% in normalized EBITDA are among our best on record adjusted earnings per share while up strongly at 17% would have increased by more than 30% but for the currency effects.
Our regional services businesses the Americas EMEA and Asia Pacific drove our strong performance during the quarter.
We continue to invest prudently in recruiting M&amp;A platform enhancements and strategic initiatives to ensure that we're always providing best-in-class service for our clients and driving profitable growth for our business.
The benefits of these efforts were very clear in the second quarter.
Each of our three regions turned in exceptional results with high teens or better revenue growth in local currency positive operating leverage and strong margins.
While achieving robust growth and remaining riveted on client service we continued our progress toward completing the acquisition of the Global Workplace Solutions business from Johnson Controls.
We remain on course to complete this transaction later this quarter or early next quarter and are very enthusiastic about the opportunities it will afford us to deepen our relationships with many the world's largest corporations.
A final highlight of the quarter was CBRE's performance in The Barron's 500 ranking published in May.
Barron's uses detailed analytics to evaluate the financial performance of the 500 largest U.S.-based corporations.
We're extremely pleased to be number two on this prestigious ranking this year up from number seven last year.
This is a great testament to the hard work our people are doing every day to create value for our clients and our shareholders.
Now I will turn the call over to Jim who will describe our second quarter performance in greater detail.
Thank you Bob.
Please turn to slide 5.
As Bob indicated our Q2 results reflect sustained underlying momentum in our business.
We're in a very good financial position with market-leading scale strong margins robust cash flow and a flexible investment-grade balance sheet.
Reflecting this Standard &amp; Poor's recently raised our investment grade rating to BBB from BBB minus.
Revenue and earnings achieved received strong double-digit growth even after adverse foreign currency movement.
Gross revenue and fee revenue both rose 12% or 19% in local currency.
Normalized EBITDA increased 16% or 22% in local currency to $304 million.
We achieved a 17.1% normalized EBITDA margin on fee revenue up 60 basis points from Q2 2014.
Adjusted earnings per share improved 17% to $0.42 for the quarter after a $0.05 negative impact from adverse foreign currency movement.
Adjusted earnings per share would have improved 31% without the effects of foreign currency.
Please turn to slide 6 for a review of the performance of our major global lines of business in Q2.
As a reminder all percentage increases are in local currency unless noted otherwise.
We achieved outstanding growth in our capital markets business.
Property sales revenue surged 32% with growth in the vast majority of countries worldwide.
Mortgage services revenue growth exceeded 40% for the second quarter in a row.
Mortgage servicing rights on loan activity associated with the U.S.
Government Sponsored Enterprises or GSEs continue to grow rapidly with EBITDA up $14 million over last year's Q2.
As we indicated last quarter GSE activity is expected to moderate in the second half of the year due to regulatory caps.
Global Corporate Services our occupier outsourcing business was particularly strong overseas as clients increasingly require globally integrated solutions.
Excluding the transaction revenues generated by this business which are accounted for in leasing and sales revenues Global Corporate Services achieved a 15% increase in fee revenue.
Asset Services also showed robust growth around the world with fee revenue up 24%.
Property leasing revenue jumped 15% as our focus on market share gains continued to pay dividends.
The valuation business line had a very strong quarter with revenue up 35%.
Every region exhibited double-digit growth even before accounting for acquisitions completed in the second half of last year.
Revenue fell in Global Investment Management in part due to minimal carried interest and incentive fees in this year's Q2.
Overall contractual fee revenue plus leasing which is largely recurring totaled 68% of total fee revenue.
Property sales accounted for 23% of total fee revenue.
Please turn to slide number 7 where we will review Q2 results for our three regional business services segments starting with the Americas.
The Americas again displayed strength across the board as overall fee revenue increased 19% to $1.06 billion.
Every business line in the region produced double-digit revenue growth for the fourth quarter in a row.
Once again capital markets turned in a very strong performance property sales rose 25% with major contributions from the U.S.
and Mexico while mortgage services improved 44%.
We increased our market share in the U.S.
investment sales and held the number one position at mid-year according to RCA.
Leasing revenue grew at a double-digit clip for the eighth consecutive quarter.
This reflects both improved productivity from our current brokers as well as contributions from new producers who are migrating to CBRE at an impressive rate.
Revenue for the quarter was up 11%.
Combined fee revenue from Global Corporate Services and Asset Services improved 11%.
Please turn to slide 8 regarding EMEA.
EMEA's performance rebounded significantly following a sluggish start to 2015.
Fee revenue growth was robust across every service line and increased 33% overall to $409 million.
Property sales revenue surged 62%.
United Kingdom showed exceptionally strong growth with France Germany Italy Spain and Sweden also making notable gains.
France recovered from a relatively low base in Q2 last year and remains a challenging macro environment.
For the region our growth markedly exceeded the estimated 19% volume growth recorded for the market as a whole.
Growth in leasing was exceptional.
Big gains in Germany the United Kingdom and other countries resulted in a 33% increase in leasing revenue.
Year-to-date leasing is up 14%.
Combined fee revenue from Global Corporate Services and Asset Services also achieved very strong growth improving 25%.
The United Kingdom accounted for the lion's share of this growth with notable contributions from France Germany and Spain.
Please turn to slide 9 regarding Asia Pacific.
This region achieved 17% growth in fee revenue to $200 million.
Property sales revenue increased 24% led by strong growth in Australia and greater China.
This was a notable improvement from a relatively soft Q1.
Leasing revenue also rose solidly increasing by 12%.
Australia India and Singapore all posted healthy gains.
Combined fee revenue from Global Corporate Services and Asset Services rose 19%.
China and India were key growth drivers as outsourcing continues to gain a firmer foothold in these emerging economies.
Please turn to slide number 10 regarding our occupier outsourcing business.
Financial results for this business line which we call Global Corporate Services are reported within the three regional services segments.
Global Corporate Services grew 15% continuing its long-term record of solid secular growth as we focus on extending our leadership position with deeper and broader services for our clients.
The pay-off can be seen in a growing roster of clients and the expansion of existing relationships.
In Q2 we signed 83 total outsourcing contracts one of our most productive quarters and nearly 40% entailed expanding services or geographies for existing customers.
Mission critical facilities have provided fertile ground for growth since we added the Norland capabilities 18 months ago.
To illustrate we were awarded data center management contracts with two Fortune 50 companies and a global financial information company during the quarter.
Adding Global Workplace Solutions 16 000 people in more than 50 countries later this year will further broaden our reach and deepen our expertise.
Please learn to slide 11 regarding our Global Investment Management segment.
Revenue and normalized EBITDA in Global Investment Management declined in Q2 versus the prior year.
This was driven disproportionately by minimal carried interest and incentive payments as well as the impact of the REIT market in the quarter.
The MSCI U.S.
REIT Index declined 10% during Q2 2015 as compared to a 7% increase in the index during the prior year's second quarter.
As a result we did not achieve anticipated incentive fees in our listed security business and were impacted by the mark to market of our related co-investments.
Overall combined incentive fees and carried interest are expected to be more weighted to the second half of this year.
We anticipate being on track with our investment management and Development Services combined guidance for the full year.
Capital raising continued at a brisk pace.
We raised $2.2 billion in the second quarter and $7.7 billion over trailing four quarters.
The pipeline remains strong as we continue to produce solid returns for investors.
Assets under management of $88.4 billion were up $2.1 billion over prior-year Q2 in local currency but down $4.4 billion when converted into U.S.
dollars.
Please sir turn to slide 12 regarding our Development Services segment.
You will recall we expected property sales and earnings in this business to be weighted to the second half of the year.
Development projects in process totaled $6 billion up $500 million over Q1 2015 and the pipeline totaled $3.7 billion up over $100 million over Q1 2015.
Please turn to slide 13 as I turn the call back over to Bob for closing remarks.
Thank you Jim.
At the midpoint of 2015 CBRE is on course for another year of very strong financial performance.
We're intensely focused on executing our strategy to sustain long-term secular growth and further extend our position as the industry leader.
During the first half of 2015 we completed three infill acquisitions that enhanced our service offering and we continued to lay the groundwork for the smooth integration of Global Workplace Solutions later this year.
This business is perfectly aligned with our strategy of helping large global clients to meet their objectives under long-term contractual relationships.
We also continued to selectively upgrade and expand our talent base.
Brokerage recruiting is running at a brisk pace again this year.
We're capitalizing on the growing recognition that CBRE affords the industry's top professionals the opportunity to better serve their clients and build their careers.
Finally as Jim reviewed earlier we're in a very strong position financially.
As we start the second half we're positive on our outlook for the remainder of 2015 and believe our full-year performance is likely to be toward the upper end of our guidance range of $1.90 to $1.95 adjusted earnings per share.
Our business has positive underlying momentum and we're seeing great benefit from the steps we have taken to enhance our service delivery for clients and fortify our market position.
Operator we will now open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Tony Paolone JPMorgan.
Our first question comes from the line of Tony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Can you give us maybe some guide posts on EMEA particularly sales and leasing for the back half of the year in terms of are those -- do you see those as been easier or more difficult comps because when we look at the performance in the second quarter it was pretty strong but it also seems to be part of the business where you might be most subject to currency as well so just trying to understand what that picture looks like in the next couple of quarters? We did have a good quarter in EMEA after a tough quarter as you know and that part of the world is particularly impacted by FX.
The business has picked up momentum and we believe that we will have a strong second half there.
Obviously we're not providing separate guidance on what might happen in any one of our geographic regions but we do feel good about the momentum in the business.
And it goes beyond the UK.
We're seeing good momentum in several of the other countries there as Jim noted in his comments so we should see a good second half there.
Okay.
And then second in the Americas your leasing was up 10%.
It's a good number but I am just curious what your thoughts are in terms of how you see that commission plot cyclically and what you think the potential might be over the balance of the cycle say because it seems like that is one of the business lines in regions where it just hasn't seemed like it is run to full potential yet this cycle.
Tony this is Jim.
We're up now eight quarters double-digit on leasing in the Americas so it is still relatively early in the recovery stage but it continues to move strongly.
It was up 11% in local currency and we're up probably about 15% year-to-date so it is pretty consistent with our guidance for the year so far on the leasing.
Do you feel like that business is as far along say as investment sales or if you feel like there's still a lot more to be gained on the leasing side? No leasing is still relatively early stages.
If you think back we've only recovered the jobs we lost at the last recession in April of last year and it is the pick-up in jobs that has been at a modest pace but steady that's helped slowly improved rental rates and that has provided some fuel behind the business but it feels relatively early still.
Okay.
Last question with regards to the JCI transaction any update on financing yet? When you think you might -- if I recall correctly and I might be wrong but you were going to fund a part of it with debts and just wondering when you start to put that all together? When we announced the deal we mentioned that we anticipated funding some with cash probably somewhere in the range of about one-third and the rest with debt.
We can't provide more insight than that right now.
Our next question comes from the line of Brad Burke with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
A bit of a follow-up to Tony's questions but more macro the negative headlines that we're seeing coming out of Greece or China haven't had much of an impact on your results but for the impact of FX and I'm just wondering if we should start to sense -- see any moderation or slowdown outside of the U.S.
across any of your business lines because of macro concerns or at this point are the CRE market just shrugging it off? Brad I was over in Europe last week with our EMEA leadership team and they are not feeling threatened by the macro circumstances you are describing.
Obviously they are watching them and they watch them more closely than we do from over here and they have insight from interface with local business people and so forth but they are not feeling threatened by that and in general feeling good momentum as I said to Tony good momentum not only in the UK but in businesses around Europe.
So you never know where surprises might come from but for the moment everything we're seeing is being taken on board and that economy broadly speaking is now growing and activity in our sector is picking up leasing as well as capital markets which has already picked up so we're feeling pretty good about it right now.
That would be the same for Asia Pacific as well? The situation is a little different in Asia Pacific than it is in EMEA.
Everything is relative so our folks in Asia Pacific while that part of the world is still growing faster than the rest of the world relative to historic standards that they've set it's not as exciting so I would say that they are feeling solid but there is not the same enthusiasm about the relative movement in the market as there is in EMEA.
Of course the leasing in general is moving solid not spectacular in Asia Pacific capital markets a lot of capital wants to go there.
There is a challenge around lack of product in some markets so there is not a feeling of being threatened by the macro circumstances there but on a relative basis EMEA probably has a little more momentum now than Asia Pacific.
Jim you said you realized a $14 million improvement in EBITDA from GSE lending in the quarter but you're still expecting there to be a deceleration in the back half of the year so I was hoping you could help us think about the magnitude of the slowdown that you might expect and if you could give us any rough guidelines on how to think about the potential EBITDA impact year-over-year? It is a little hard to predict the volume but we do think we will be down in the second half versus the prior year probably in the range of $10 million to $20 million but that is our best view as of now.
Okay.
And on investment management EBITDA I realize that a lot of the decline that we're seeing is driven by some of the choppier items but it's still the lowest quarter that we've seen in a while so I was hoping that you could help us think about what we're looking at in 2Q and how that compares to how we should think about a normalized run rate for that business? Brad Q2 was definitely hit by number of things.
I would say the performance of the REIT market was a big one.
It was down over 10% the market the index was down over 10% in Q2 and that's compared to being up 7% in Q2 on the prior year.
That compare hits us in a few different places.
It resulted in us not achieving some incentives that we had anticipated.
It reduced some of the fees off the base business and then that 17% swing resulted in us marking to market our co-investments which was not immaterial.
We have about $60 million or so of co-investments in that business.
So the combination of those three I would say was somewhat of an anomalistic impact.
FX also the business.
It is pretty heavily weighted to Europe.
Those are the primary factors that hit it for the quarter.
And as I said in the opening we do believe that our guidance for the year which we gave on a combined basis for the development business and investment management business still appears to be on track.
Our next question comes from the line of Mitch Germain with JMP Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Just curious on the guidance is that including the impact of the GWS acquisition? It is but we're not expecting that to have a material swing on the numbers for the period of time that we will have the business.
So the one quarter is not going to make much of a difference.
How should we think about it for next year then? We won't be giving guidance on that for next year until we're ready to give guidance for the year just in our normal course activity.
And then just with regards to GWS how many new relationships does that company bring into the fold? Mitch it brings in 100 relationships many of which we have already 100-plus relationships but many of those we don't have on a contractual basis.
So as you know because of the skill of our business we do business in one way or another with most companies around the world today but GWS had large contractual relationships with a substantial number of corporations that we had one-off relationships with so very very different relationships going forward and a very important part of this deal.
Just in terms of that comment Bob how do you consider the potential to cross-sell if many of those customers are already existing customers? Just trying to figure out not just what GWS brings into the fold but what it could bring in in your ability to cross-sell your services? There are two kinds of cross-sell that will come from that combination.
One is what GWS can do for the clients we have that we're not doing today and then the other is what we can do for the clients they have that they're not doing today so there is big opportunity in both directions.
The first order of business of course is for us to get the businesses combined and do great work with what we're already doing and that is where our focus is right now.
But we do think there is both kinds of revenue synergy opportunities.
There is technical services that GWS should be able to provide for us in many places of the world many clients.
Then obviously they didn't have a material transaction business and we think there is opportunity if we do great work for those clients over time to do quite a bit of transaction work for them.
So we look at that in both directions but the starting point is great job at what we're already doing for those clients.
Okay.
Just in terms of appetite for acquisitions you mentioned three on the year.
Is it slowing down just because you have got this big one in the queue or is it still as active a pipeline as you guys have seen before? I would say the pipeline is just as active.
As we've commented over the last year or so we've become increasingly particular about the deals and the deal structures that we're looking at.
Walking away from deals we think the pricing is out of whack but the pipeline is still quite solid.
We signed GWS in the first half and closed three infill acquisitions slightly slower pace than normally without a large transaction but we feel pretty good about the pipeline and we will continue to do infill probably at a pretty similar rate to what we have done when we're not in the midst of a large closing.
Our next question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
You had a goal of getting around 50 basis points of operating margin expansion in the regional service segments North America EMEA Asia Pac.
Year-to-date you're up about 150 basis points.
Do you see an upward bias on that target? We're ahead of our plan on that basis and we look at it if we back out of the regional businesses the year-over-year gains from servicing rights and the impact of FX we're up about 100 basis points which we feel great about.
We will have a little tougher compare as we get into the second half particularly on the servicing side but we feel good about where we're at and we're a little bit ahead of our pace for the year.
And then on the proprietary businesses it seems like maybe a little bit more second-half weighted particularly in Development Services just in terms of EBITDA in the second half of 2015 versus 2014.
Could you see those two businesses the Investment Management Development Services have a year-over-year increase in EBITDA? Our guidance was that the two of them would be roughly flat to the prior year combined and we still believe we're on target to that guidance.
And then a little bit of a macro question.
In the capital markets business how would you put the average holding periods or how frequently buildings are changing hands today versus long-term averages? Are we back to the normal turnover level globally in capital markets? David we don't have that.
That is a great question and it would be nice to have that statistic at our fingertips but we don't and so we can't answer it up specifically.
I will tell you what we're seeing.
The prices are good so a lot of people are trading and there is a lot of capital out there so a lot of people are trading.
That is part of why prices are good.
But there is also -- once people acquire assets there is a desire to keep them and work them and so on and so forth.
So you have dynamics on both sides of that question some pushing for a quicker turnover some pushing for longer hold.
Where the math works out we just don't have -- we haven't researched that and don't have an answer ready for you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Jim just to clarify on the GSE business that $10 million to $20 million is that a second half or second-half headwind that you are talking about? Just want to make sure I understand how you are positioning that number? Yes it is a second-half headwind as far as in comparison to the figures for that from second half prior-year.
And then Bob you mentioned the pace of recruiting or hiring remains at a pretty high level.
Maybe put some context around that for us? Is that higher than you expected? Has it surprised you because of inbound interest or maybe just your success rate of getting people you thought you might get? Then how do we think about what that should tell us for the pace of headcount additions in the back half of the year? Brandon it is consistent with the last couple of years.
We've commented that the last couple of years have been long-term records for us so we're encouraged by it.
We're not really surprised by it because we work very hard at it and we have done some things with the business that make it a more attractive place for brokers to come and I would say meaningfully so.
We expect to given the work we're doing and given the business we've built and the ability of brokers to come over here and produce more than they can produce in other places and do things for their clients that it is harder for them to do in other places we expect to see that momentum continue and it is an important part of our strategy.
Okay.
And maybe to that point if you look at the wins maybe in the first half of this year or this quarter in the Corporate Services part of the bailiwick how do those wins look from a breadth and depth of the services and the geographies that they include versus what they look like last year? Or maybe for -- compare a couple of clients in the same industry a recent win versus a win a couple of years ago what do those things look like? How much expansion are you getting new deals versus old? I will give you a comment on it and then I'm going to ask Jim to also because you asked multiple questions there.
But first of all the pace of wins is picking up and when you have more wins you have more different kinds of wins.
We're seeing more wins outside the U.S.
than we have seen historically.
We're seeing more wins in what I would call the technical area which makes the GWS acquisition even more appealing for us.
We're seeing on the transaction services side of the business we're seeing wins where they are demanding that we do things that we have not been able to do historically.
Again our GCS team and our brokerage team have worked together to put some capabilities in place to serve that requirement so all of that is positive.
And by the way we really are seeing a lot of -- as Jim commented in the numbers a high percentage of the wins we're having are add-on services or expansions of existing contracts.
So the business is just getting bigger in part and all the things you see in a bigger business -- more diverse types of services and contracts more global all of that stuff is happening for us.
But Jim do you want to add anything to that? Bob the only thing I would add to that is just that as the depth and breadth of our capability set has continued to expand the same thing has happened with the size -- the depth and breadth of the assignment.
So as we have become more capable to do more things for our clients we're seeing those opportunities open up that clients are smart and well-informed as to our capability sets and that has helped to drive larger more complicated accounts with more services and critical facilities was one that you mentioned.
That has picked up simply because we've picked up capabilities in that area and continue to improve.
One final one in that same direction given some of the capabilities that you are adding how successful are you with let's call it mid- contract discussions? Not at a specific renewal point in a contract but going back to some of the legacy customers that you couldn't serve with those newly added services when you first signed the contract how successful are you at [indiscernible] or expanding those contracts when there really wasn't a specific renewal point that you have to walk in and talk about? Brandon that is a circumstance that we're precluded from essentially selling at this point.
The two companies until they are combined have to market separately.
Obviously we have a point of view on what will happen and when you go back to Jim's comments and mine on the trends we're seeing in these contracts we believe that'll be pretty powerful combination when it is added together but we're not able to enjoy that yet.
Our next question comes from the line of Brad Burke with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
A quick follow-up on Mitch's question on the guidance the $1.90 to $1.95 that you had given previously presumably didn't include the impact of the JCI business and now per your answer to his question it sounds like it does.
Jim you had said that that was an immaterial impact but I was hoping you could give us a little bit more just to make that comparison of Q2 guidance versus Q1 guidance apples-to-apples whether you can elaborate on the magnitude that we ought to be thinking about or maybe the timing of closing that you're expecting that is currently in the guidance that you are giving now? I don't think it is going to have much impact.
We will probably be carrying some extra interest expense as we're likely to have some financing expense that will be -- even some weeks of interest expense when you're only holding a business for call it a few months can have an impact.
So we're assuming modest if any -- call it $0.01 maybe impact from GWS but that is a very rough estimate at this point.
It could be impacted by the timing of the closing.
As a general statement though we would expect the expenses for the acquisition to ramp on more quickly than the associated EBITDA with the acquisition just due to the timing of the financing so that wouldn't be how we would think about a run rate accretion in 2016? That is correct.
Our next question is a follow-up question from the line of Tony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
I had a follow-up on Norland and the more technical aspect of that business which you cited a couple times seems to be strong.
What exactly or can you put a little more detail around exactly what you do with data centers and things of that nature? So for instance when we hear about Amazon and their cloud business just growing so rapidly is it something that you guys would be involved in or is it more to do with companies' back office if you will data center needs? Just trying to understand exactly what gets done there? I would say both.
If you look at a heavy-duty data center we would do everything within that data center up to putting the computers in the racks and from that point forward.
In some cases we will not only manage the facility the mechanical systems fire safety battery power back-up et cetera but in some cases even build out the racking systems and then that is where our service would stop.
I don't know if -- is that helpful with regard to your question? Yes.
Is that because of the nature of that being more technical and the capability -- do you get a better margin on that? And also do you see that growing faster than say the non-technical side of things? I can't comment on the margin specifically but I would say it's definitely one of the areas within that business where we have seen strong growth.
And we had significant capabilities already in that area before the acquisition of Norland.
Norland had a -- probably almost one-third of their business that was totally focused on these types of critical facilities.
GWS has considerable focus and expertise as well in a variety of critical facilities -- not only data centers but also laboratories and other critical facilities so that our base of capabilities has continued to improve and the market has been pretty open for us there.
Mr.
Sulentic we have no more further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Thank you everyone for joining us and we look forward to talking to you next time.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the CBRE Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation [Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Steve Iaco Investor Relations for CBRE.
Thank you Mr.
Iaco.
You may now begin.
Thank you.
Welcome to CBRE's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Earlier today we issued a press release announcing our financial results for the quarter.
This release is posted on the homepage of our website CBRE.com.
This conference call is being webcast through the Investor Relations section of our website.
You can also find there a presentation slide deck which you can use to follow along with our prepared remarks.
An audio archive of the webcast will be posted to the website later today and a transcript of our call will be posted tomorrow.
Before we get started we would like to remind all of you that we will host our Annual Business Outlook Day in New York on December 3<sup>rd</sup>.
This is an opportunity to provide the investment community with an in depth understanding of our business lines and our strategy.
We look forward to see many of you there.
Now please turn to the slide labeled forward-looking statements.
This presentation contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These include statements regarding CBRE's future growth momentum operations financial performance business outlook and adjusted earnings per share expectation including expected contributions and cost synergies from the newly acquired global workplace solutions business and its integration.
These statements should be considered to be estimates only and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Except to the extent required by securities laws we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forward-looking statements you may make today.
For a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any forward-looking statements please refer to our third quarter earnings report filed on Form 8-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed in 2015 and our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K.
These reports are filed with the SEC and are available at sec.gov.
During this presentation we may make certain statements that refer to non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations.
Where required by these regulations we have provided reconciliations of these measures to what we believe to be the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
Those reconciliations together with the explanation of these measures can be found within the appendix of this presentation.
Please turn to Slide 3.
Participating on our call today are Bob Sulentic our President and Chief Executive Officer Jim Groch our CFO and Gil Borok our Deputy CFO and Chief Accounting Officer.
During our remarks expect or where otherwise noted or reference to percentage increase or decrease are in local currency as calculated by comparing current period results at prior period exchange rates versus prior period results.
Now please turn to Slide 4 as I turn the call over to Bob.
Thank you Steve.
Good afternoon everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
The third quarter of 2015 was an eventful period for CBRE.
As you saw on our press release we posted excellent results with strong top-line and bottom-line growth around the world highlighted by a 28% increase in adjusted earnings per share.
We also moved decisively to fortify our market leading occupier outsourcing business with the acquisition of Global Workplace Solutions on September 1<sup>st</sup>.
This is our largest acquisition in nearly a decade and one of the most compelling ever completed in our sector.
The combination creates a platform unlike anything that has previously existed in our industry with high complementary product offerings and common cultures around innovation and client services.
It broadens our value proposition creates true global scale deepen our relationships with prominent global corporations and enriches our talent pool.
Our last three large strategy acquisitions are recurring revenue businesses that operate under contracts that are typically five years or longer.
These acquisitions have helped to transform CBRE into a more resilient business.
We now have it dramatically more powerful integrated service offering while maintaining our core focus on commercial real estate services.
We also continued to make gains through investments in recruiting training technology branding and research.
All positioned to help us deliver great outcomes for clients and to drive growth.
We saw the pay off from these investments across CBRE in the third quarter.
Notably our services business comprised of the Americas EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions again posted significant revenue and normalized EBIT growth with solid margin expansion.
Our Investment Management business also performed well.
Now Jim will provide you with more specific insight into our performance.
Thank you Bob.
I will begin with an update on our overall performance and the expected contributions from our recent acquisition of Global Workplace Solutions.
Please turn to Slide 5.
In Q3 our business continued to exhibit excellent broad-based momentum.
Revenue and earnings growth for the quarter was very strong.
In local currency gross revenue increased 26% while fee revenue rose 21%.
Without the one month contribution from the acquired Global Workplace Solutions business gross and fee revenue were both up 16% in local currency.
Normalized EBITDA totaled $345 million an 18% improvement from last year's Q3 or a 24% improvement in local currency.
Profitability was strong with a 17.8% normalized EBITDA margin on fee revenue up approximately 60 basis points from Q3 2014.
Adjusted earnings per share increased 28% to $0.51 for the quarter.
Please turn to Slide 6 for an update on the expected financial contributions from the newly acquired Global Workplace Solutions business.
This acquisition greatly enhanced our ability to serve leading corporations around the world.
We funded about one-third of the purchase price with cash and temporary revolver borrowings and two-thirds with attractively priced five-year and seven-year bank debt and 10-year bonds.
Both Moody's and Standard &amp; Poor's affirmed our investment grade credit rating.
The integration of Global Workplace for existing occupier outsourcing business is off to a great start.
Morale is very high our organization structure percent senior leadership line of business leaders and geographic leadership is in place.
Feedback from clients their consultants and our shareholders has been overwhelmingly positive as the rational for the acquisition and value proposition is clear.
We have identified additional cost synergies and now expect run rate annual synergies of approximately $50 million up from our initial estimate of $35 million in March 2015.
We anticipate achieving approximately $30 million of the synergy in 2016 with the remaining run rate savings largely realized by year end 2017.
When we announced the acquisition in March we indicated expected material accretion to our adjusted 2016 EPS with a mid single digit percentage increase.
We are now raising our estimate to high single digit percentage increase accretion in 2016.
We closed the acquisition in the early part of our expected timeframe and raised financing with minimal interest expense in advance of closing.
In light of this we now expect the acquired Global Workplace Solutions business to contribute $0.03 to $0.04 to adjusted earnings per share for the last four months of 2015.
Calendar year Q4 has typically been a seasonally slower period for the acquired Global Workplace Solutions business due to its fiscal year previously ending September 30<sup>th</sup> As a result accretion from the last four months of 2015 is not indicative of the higher expected run rate contribution in 2016.
Please turn to Slide 7 for a review of the performance of our major global lines of business in Q3.
As a reminder I am referencing percentage increases in local currency unless noted otherwise.
For the company as whole contractual fee revenue plus leasing which is largely recurring totaled 68% of total fee revenue.
Occupier outsourcing showed strong growth in all three regions excluding transaction revenue generated by this business which is accounted for in leasing and sales revenue occupier outsourcing achieved a 53% increase in fee revenue.
Excluding the contribution from the acquired Global Workplace Solutions business fee revenue rose 14%.
Asset services growth was moderate with fee revenue up 4%.
Investment Management performed well fee revenue increased 19% fueled by higher carried interest tied to property dispositions.
Valuation again grew nicely with global fee revenue up 14%.
We benefited from higher volumes of appraisal and consulting work which stem in part from acquisitions we made in 2014.
Property leasing revenue again rose by double digits with 12% growth globally led by Europe and Asia-Pacific.
The growth rate in U.S.
slowed modestly but remained strong and 9%.
We are seeing less availability in Class A office space in a few gateway markets with new development accelerating but generally still lagging demand.
This makes then the time it takes to complete certain larger lease transactions.
However we continue to reap the benefits of very strong recruiting activity higher productivity from our existing brokerage teams and modest rent growth.
Our capital markets business continued to perform exceptionally well and had gains in market share and strong capital flows into real estate.
Property sales revenue rose 19% with region producing markedly higher activity.
In the U.S.
we logged impressive market share gains as confirmed by our RCA.
At a time when the overall market activity was flat for the quarter.
We continued to see activity broadening in the secondary markets in the U.S.
and EMEA.
In Asia-Pacific Australia and Hong Kong accounted for lion share of the increase.
Mortgage services also remained robust with revenue up 33%.
Even though as expected loan volume with the U.S.
government-sponsored enterprises leveled off due to the regulatory caps.
Banks life companies and other debt capital sources stepped up their lending.
Please turn to Slide 8 overview Q3 results for our three regional services segments all in local currency.
Fee revenue increased 18% in the Americas.
In EMEA fee revenue increased 29%.
We saw healthy gains across the region including France Germany the Netherlands Spain Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
In Asia-Pacific fee revenue rose 22% with growth led by Australia Greater China and India.
Fee revenue growth without the contribution from the acquired Global Workplace Solutions business was 14% in the Americas 19% EMEA and 17% in Asia-Pacific.
Normalized EBITDA increased 18% in the Americas 70% in EMEA and 54% in Asia-Pacific.
Please turn to Slide 9 regarding our occupier outsourcing business which is reported within the three regional services segment.
This business line which we previously called global corporate services adopted the Global Workplace Solution name on September 1<sup>st</sup>.
This move reflects Global Workplace Solutions' high brand values in the facility management sector and increasingly diverse workspaces in which we are serving clients including hospitals data centers labs and manufacturing plants.
Outsourcing continues to gain wider appeal and existing customers are taking advantage of our deeper and broader platform.
In Q3 we set a new quarterly record for the number of expansions of existing contractual relationships.
We also sign nine contracts with new or existing healthcare clients reflecting the compelling and growing opportunity for CBRE in this sector.
These numbers do not include contracts from the newly acquired Global Workplace Solutions business which we will begin to reflect in our contract reporting in 2016.
Please turn to Slide 10 regarding our Global Investment Management segment.
This business performed well with $19 million of carried interest tied to significant property disposition activity.
Capital raising totaled $1.8 billion in Q3 and $7 billion over the trailing four quarters.
We continue to attract significant equity commitments based on the solid performance of our investment programs within 75% of our AUM has outperformed its long-term industry benchmark.
At the end of Q3 assets under management of $86 billion were up $1.6 billion over prior year Q3 in local currency but down $2.6 billion when converted into U.S.
dollars.
Please turn to Slide 11 regarding our Development Services segment.
Pro forma revenue which includes equity earnings and gains on real estate sales and EBITDA both declined reflecting fewer large property dispositions than in last year's highly active Q3 period.
However activity is very strong and we expect most of this year's earnings to be achieved in Q4 from several large transactions.
We now anticipate that our combined Investment Management and Development Services businesses or 2015 will moderately exceed 2014 performance.
Development projects in process totaled $6.7 billion up $1.3 billion since the end of 2014.
The pipeline totaled $4 billion flat with year-end 2014 as projects have been converted from pipeline to in process.
Now please turn to Slide 12 as I turn the call back over to Bob for closing remarks.
Thank you Jim.
As we enter Q4 2015 is clearly emerging as another exceptional year for CBRE.
The actions we have taken to upgrade our talent base enhance our service offering materially strengthen our operating platform particularly around data and technology and fortify our financial position are yielding strong results for our clients and for our shareholders.
We are mindful of the challenges to the global economy.
However in light of outperformance through the third quarter and our strategic and financial momentum we are raising our full-year 2015 guidance for adjusted EPS by $0.10 to the $2.00 to $2.05 range.
This new guidance implies 20% year-on-year growth in adjusted earnings per share at the mid-point of the range.
With that operator we will go to questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question and answer session.
[Operator Instructions] First question is from Brad Burke of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Good evening guys.
Congratulations on the quarter.
I want to start with property sales.
The growth was obviously strong in the U.S.
certainly versus what a lot of us were expecting when you look at the RCA data and you had called out that you had taken share in the quarter but I was hoping you could break down how much of the growth that you saw in Q3 was share gain versus maybe the market holding up a little bit better than what that third-party data would indicate to the extent that you are gaining share if you could touch on some of things that would be driving that? Hey Brad.
It is Jim Groch.
We think RCA's data is pretty good so we attribute the vast majority of our performance to the share gain.
That is 17% growth in the quarter versus you had said RCA being zero so the entirety of that is share gain? Yes.
I think so.
Now as we say every quarter depending on which way these things go regardless of which way they go quarter-to-quarter swings in this data can move quite a bit from one quarter to another.
Is that an increase in headcount or recruiting or better productivity or a combination of the two? Yes.
Brad.
This is Bob.
It is both.
We've had a lot of recruiting success.
That has been a big initiative for us for the last three years.
You know we have talked about the fact that we have had a couple years ago was one of the best years in the history if not the best year in the history of our company.
We repeated it last year.
This year is on a similar pace and we are starting to see the benefit of that recruiting.
We are seeing better production from some of our people.
We are teaming in some ways and doing some things.
We have built an in-house investment banking capability to support our investment sales professionals.
That has been helpful in a number of cases.
As a result all of this came together to produce what you saw this quarter.
I think it is notable though what Jim said these things do fluctuate quarter-to-quarter.
This was a particular good quarter for us.
Okay.
That is helpful.
With the capital markets business I know it has been something that will spend nervous on - I was hoping that you could give us some thoughts about how that business is shaping up looking forward and also whether you are starting to see any sort of pullback in the credit markets? Brad this is Jim.
At the beginning of the year as you know we gave guidance that we thought the growth rate in this business would go back to high single digits.
We think obviously the market we and market have outperformed that projection but we still believe that business will slowdown in that is coming and we may have just been a little bit early on that call.
We think it will slow down there at more sustainable level but that continues to be our belief.
The rate of increase in liquidity in the market has come down but as you know there is still quite a bit of liquidity in the market.
Okay.
I guess last one just sticking with capital markets with the commercial mortgage business I think last quarter you had said there was a $50 million headwind to EBITDA.
You were expecting Q3 Q4 due to the GSE lending caps and certainly it does not seem to have impacted the third quarter so I was wondering whether that was still the case and if you are able to beat that what would be driving it.
That ended up being about flat.
For Q3 we are still projecting that Q4 will be down from prior year.
We are now thinking plus or minus $10 million but it is a little hard to the project those numbers precisely.
Other lenders have picked up pace more capitals come in market from other sources as they have pulled back.
All right.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Thanks Brad.
Thank you.
The next question is from Tony Paolone of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good afternoon everybody.
First on GWS I just want to reconcile if I think about the $237 million of revenue you got in September and annualized that I think it is a $2.8 million and it seems inside if our recall correctly the run rate revenues coming out of the deal was there seasonality or can you just give a sense as to what the annualized number should be as we look at GWS in the first year? Yeah.
We will give a little more color when we normally do guidance and 90 days but two comments.
One is the numbers I think may be referencing were from 2014 JCI had been shedding a couple of unprofitable contracts and then of course revenue and expenses were impacted by foreign-exchange since 2014.
Okay so there will be some diminution in that just from a run rate point of view that should not be the number we look at.
Yes.
Not EBITDA but revenue yes.
All right in the accretion guide that you gave with the transaction is that just to understand the connections.
Is that kind of still the EBITDA that you originally expected I think plus the cost savings and then minus I guess interest expense on the bond deal you did then some DNA? Is that how you are getting to that accretion just trying to understand the components of that number.
Yes.
Pretty much I think you have outlined the right factors.
What was it that I guess surprised you or turned out to be a bit more positive to move from mid-single digit to high single digit accretion? There is two factors one being increased synergy and the second just increased confidence.
Okay.
In this synergy I think you had mentioned $30 million but I thought that was the same as what it was originally.
Extra $20 million was something for 2017? No.
When we first announced the deal on March we referenced the $35 million run synergy and noted that we expected most of that to be back end weighted to the second year or not most of it but referred to be more backend weighted so that we would realize that over two years.
That $35 million run rate synergy has now increased to $50 million and we are saying we believe we will achieve $30 million of that $50 million in the next calendar year in 2016.
By the end of '17 we should largely achieve the full $50 million run rate synergy.
The total amount of synergy has increased and the pace at which we expect to achieve this synergy has increased.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks for clarifying that.
Then I have a question in development services and I guess as well as in investment management given you know how robust capital markets are do you think you will accelerate asset sales and drive promote incentive fees and that sort of stuff in the next few quarters? We noticed that it seem like your carried interest was little higher this quarter and just curious as to what your plans are with again the development pipeline being pretty large and moving its way through and then any other assets sales that might drive promotes? Yes.
Tony.
You mentioned both the development business and the Investment Management business.
It has been the case for some time now and continues to be the case that we are aggressively harvesting assets in our Investment Management business because that is what our clients want us to do.
We are able to fetch good prices and recycle the capital for them in many cases and they are generating very good relative returns so w will continue down that path.
In the Development business we built up a very healthy in-process portfolio of opportunities.
They are very well underwritten very good and we think that that business will contribute really nicely to the Company fourth quarter this year and next year and we are not doing anything to new accelerate it.
Development projects have their own lifecycle and you have to get them improved design built and leased up and then you can sell them so we are not doing anything to accelerate that process but that process is playing out.
As you know our portfolio of projects has grown nicely over the last couple years so we expect to see some good returns as a result.
Okay.
Can you share what the fourth quarter expected incentive fees or carried interested amount is going to be? Tony what we mentioned just before we opened up for questions is that we expect the combination of the two businesses to be up moderately over last year.
Okay.
Then just last question if I think about your various business lines and then also your various geographies and then overlay that with some of that the more macroeconomic volatility we have seen over the last few months where you guys see pressure if anywhere on that matrix? Right now Tony we are not seeing a lot of pressure.
I would tell you where we are seen the strongest growth is in Europe.
You saw the results this quarter we expect that continue but we saw good growth in places where people did not necessarily expected.
In Greater China we had nice growth.
In Australia we did so we have not felt a lot of meaningful pressure at this point and the backlogs of business we have suggest that year should finish out nicely for us.
Okay.
Thanks.
Nice quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Brandon Dobell of William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon guys.
I know you keep hammering the capital markets line for a second here.
Do you feel there is any or was any acceleration in deals and just with an eye of maybe uncertainty towards the end of the year or people just kind of changing their approach based on how the interest rate noises is kind of playing through capital markets? Are people change their trajectory or was it just - it felt like deals that closed were closing when they were supposed to close? Brandon this is Jim.
We did not see any change in the dynamics of people try to accelerate deal closings.
I would say that - you asked about coming forward next quarter.
I mean Q4 of the last two years has been really strong so it is a little bit of a tough compare but outside of that I think that the business activity is still strong.
Okay.
Within the U.S.
looking at the larger markets versus secondary markets I know there are still some pretty big gaps in cap rates and things like that between those markets but do you look at those if you want to divide the market into those two categories where do you feel you have got more momentum or where do you feel the momentum is sustainable over a longer duration for your brokers? While there is still honestly an awful a lot of activity across the market globally both in this core CBD markets and in the secondary markets so we have seen strengthening in the secondary markets both throughout the U.S.
and the EMEA.
Okay.
Then in GWS maybe some color on how the cadence of the either contract renewals or your opportunity to kind of get under the covers of some of this contracts.
How we should think about that impacting some of the potential knock on revenues around other services whether it would be add on to the existing contracts for facility or property leasing maybe if some capital markets activity but I guess I had focused on a more on the leasing and consulting around the existing contracts.
Is it going to take four five six years to get through all these things or do you have opportunities to go back or to go with those customers kind of midstream and change what those deals might look like? Well Brandon we always have the opportunity because of the full-service nature of what we do to talk to those and they are mostly large corporate still increasingly we are doing work for hospital systems and government enterprises but we always have the opportunity to talk to them on a full-service basis but we have made an absolute commitment to ourselves and to our clients that for the time being our focus for them with this acquisition which again as we talked about in our prepared remarks is the biggest we have done in a decade and really unlike anything to spend on our sector.
The focus is on great results for our clients.
We believe that the other things we do are not going to be a secret to them and that over time - provide make great services to them with work we do now.
We will be able to integrate back and forth between the client base that we had and the client base that GWS brought to us with the very complementary services we have had but that is not what we have talked about in our underwriting or - Jim has talked a number of times over the last couple of quarters about what we expect out of this deal.
What we are talking about is not that.
That will be there if we do a good job.
Our focus is on doing a good job.
We think there will be upside but we are not factoring in a lot of revenue synergy into that business right now.
We are factoring in our normal growth and excellent execution and we think the revenue synergy will come as a result of that.
Okay.
The acquisition change how we should think about the headcount growth trajectory for '16 i.e.
do you need to add service professionals in the core service lines kind of around the GWS deal to really take advantage of the breadth of the portfolio or should we expect kind of the numbers of headcount you guys add in '16 it looks like it did in '15 to the growth rate it is a little bit slower? Yes.
We won't need to add a lot of professionals.
We added a lot of professionals as you know and we are really kind of at a record pace the last couple of years.
Yes.
…in our transactional businesses and we work for 80% 90% of a large companies around the world on the transaction site already.
We are positioned to do more for those clients.
We are position to do work on a contractual basis and we are seeing more of that but we are not going to have to meaningfully ramp up our headcount to get that done.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] The next question is from Mitch Germain of JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
All right.
Thank you.
Jim we are trying to a better idea with regards to the guidance.
It looks like better $0.03 to $0.04 of it was GWS mortgage some carried interested is that the way they kind of think about the different variables that led you guys to take such a constructive view on the outlook? I would say those are factors but really the businesses have been performing pretty strongly across all three regions and all lines of business.
We do a bottoms up detailed review every quarter and it was that review that took us to this increase.
Great.
If I look at the balance sheet a little over two times debt to EBITDA today where do you see that factoring out? As 2016 progress you see that dropping down to more normalized levels? When we announced the deal on March we said we thought we would be 1.7 times leverage 1.7 times EBITDA by year-end.
I think we are right on track for that.
Even that is a relatively conservative view so our bank covenants will show a lower leverage ratio because we can pro forma in the run rate EBITDA that that we have acquired et cetera but on the most conservative view we are just over two now and we will be under 2 by year-end.
Great.
Then just two more quick question from me one in terms of retention GWS it sounds like you said you guys have the business leaders in place and the management in place.
Do you see any loss in terms of some of the key personnel that you guys were expecting to take on? Well the most important people have signing employment agreements four five years and are showing quite significant enthusiasm for the business and the combinations so I do not think so.
There will be some overlap so there will be some people that leave but I think we are in a very strong shape there as far as retention.
Great.
Now that this deals has been completed are you guys going to be now focusing back on some of the smaller tuck-in and strategic acquisitions? Yes.
I think you will start to see pickup probably as early as our next quarterly call.
Great.
Thank you.
Great quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from David Ridley-Lane of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Sure.
One concern we have heard from investors the sources of the cross-border capital and either commodity driven economies or greater Asia economies are likely to slow going forward.
What have you seen either quantitatively or anecdotally about cross-border capital flows? We have not seen that David.
What we have seen is that cross-border capital flows have remained strong.
We have interviewed we kind of pulled our clients in various ways.
We think half of the clients that we did business with a year ago were moving capital across borders.
Half of them intend to move more capital this year than I did year ago so you saw the numbers not only for us but for the whole market for the quarter and a year so we have not seen a pullback in that at this point.
It just has not been something we have seen.
In Europe in particular we have seen a meaningful increasing cross-border flows into Europe.
Got it.
On the capital markets pipeline so disruption we have seen in sort of the debt markets and around CMBS in particular has that been enough to put some deals out of the pipeline or has most of the things that you have been working on still very much go ahead for the fourth quarter? Yes.
From what we have seen there is sufficient capital from other sources to step in.
As I mentioned earlier we have been anticipating that the rate of growth in sales will come down to a more sustainable level and we still believe that that is likely to be the case but we are not seeing deals die basically because of a lack of capital [ph].
Got it.
Then kind of curious on the leasing volumes did you see any impact from the market volatility or were corporations pretty ahead of confidence to go ahead and execute leases even with some of the broader market volatility in the quarter? We saw strong growth in leasing around the world slightly slower growth in the U.S.
this quarter than we have seen but still very strong at 9% so we have not seen the dynamic.
We are expecting to see some of that in China but we as of now have not seen that pullback and we are expecting to see a nice finish to the year.
We are watching China like everybody else.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question from Mitch Germain of JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
I am sorry guys.
Just one more from me how should I look at the recurring that is the fee revenue of the Company on a pro forma level when we assume like a full year impact of the GWS deal? Mitch we… …to the whole… Yes.
We have not given any guidance on that.
When we come back next quarter we will take a look at that.
Maybe we can give some more color.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
We have no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back to Management for any closing comments.
Thanks everyone.
We look forward to talking to you when we do our year-end release in three months.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your line at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the CBRE Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode and a brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation [Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Steve Iaco with Investor Relations.
Thank you Mr.
Iaco.
You may now begin.
Thank you and welcome to CBRE's fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Earlier today we issued a press release announcing our financial results for the quarter and full year.
This release is posted on the homepage of our website CBRE.com.
This conference call is being webcast through the Investor Relations section of our website.
You can also find there a presentation slide deck which you can use to follow along with our prepared remarks.
An audio archive of the webcast will be posted to the website later today and a transcript of our call will be posted tomorrow.
Now please turn to the slide labeled forward-looking statements.
This presentation contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These include statements regarding CBRE's future growth momentum operations business outlook financial performance market share earnings and adjusted EPS expectations for 2016.
These statements should be considered to be estimates only and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Except to the extent required by securities laws we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forward-looking statements we may make today.
For a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any forward-looking statements please refer to our fourth quarter earnings report filed on Form 8-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30 2015 and our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K.
These reports are filed with the SEC and are available at sec.gov.
During this presentation we may make certain statements that refer to non-GAAP financial measures as defined by SEC regulations.
Where required by these regulations we have provided reconciliations of these measures to what we believe are the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
These reconciliations together with the explanation of these measures can be found within the appendix of this presentation.
Please turn to slide 3.
Participating on our call today are Bob Sulentic our President and Chief Executive Officer Jim Groch our CFO and Gil Borok our Deputy CFO and Chief Accounting Officer.
Please turn to Slide 4 as I turn the call over to Bob.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
2015 was another year of exceptional performance for CBRE and this strong performance continued through the fourth quarter.
For both period we set new company records for revenue and adjusted earnings and drove double-digit growth.
We are the first firm in our sector to exceed $10 billion in revenue and $1.4 million in normalized EBITDA and we obtained these milestones while making strategic gains across CBRE.
Notably our occupier outsourcing business is materially stronger with the acquisition of the Global Workplace Solutions business.
We have an unrivaled ability to self-perform facilities management services around the world.
In capital markets we made market share gains around the globe.
We acquired nine leading companies in 2015 enhancing our capabilities in energy management retail data analytics capital markets and consulting.
We had our third straight year of outsized recruiting gains as hundreds of new senior brokerage and capital markets professionals net of departures elected to join our team.
The average production of people joining our team is three times higher than those who leave.
We opened our 30<sup>th</sup> new state-of-the-art alternative workplace office providing our people with a collaborative and innovative work environment.
Finally we ended the year with a balance sheet that is stronger than at any time in recent history highlighted by investment grade credit ratings.
We thank our more than 70 000 employees for an excellent year in 2015 and for their commitment to our clients.
Now Jim will take you through our results in greater detail.
Thank you Bob.
Please turn to slide 5 as you’ve seen in our press release CBRE’s growth in 2015 was outstanding.
Revenue rose 20% to 10.9 billion fee revenue increased 14% to 7.7 billion normalized EBITDA rose 21% to 1.4 billion and adjusted EPS was up 22% to $2.05 a share.
Profitability was strong with an 18.3% normalized EBITDA margin on fee revenue in 2015 of approximately 110 basis points from 2014.
This performance was achieved in spite of significant headwinds from currency movements.
Our three regional service segments achieved a 27% increase in normalized EBITDA with a margin on fee revenue of 16.5% up 100 basis points for the year.
Bob mentioned the strength of our balance sheet despite investing approximately 1.6 billion in nine acquisitions during the year we ended 2015 with no outstanding borrowings on our 2.6 billion revolving credit facility 470 million of available cash and short term investments and net debt of just under 1.6 times normalized EBITDA.
Please turn to slide 6 for a look at full year revenue growth by line of business.
Our businesses continue to exhibit excellent broad based momentum in 2015.
Revenue from contractual sources totaled 6 billion; contractual fee revenue was 2.9 billion up 29% in local currency or 14% without the contributions from the acquired Global Workplace Solutions business.
Leasing surpassed 2.5 billion of global revenue of 11% in local currency.
The capital markets business property sales and mortgage services exceeded 2.1 billion in revenue and achieved 20% growth in local currency.
The multi-year shift towards a more stable recurring business mix continued in 2015.
Contractual fee revenue plus leasing which is largely recurring totaled 70%.
Please turn to slide 7; where we will shift our attention from the full year to a review of our financial performance in Q4.
Revenue and adjusted earnings growth for the quarter was very strong.
Fee revenue improved 23% in local currency and 10% without the contribution from the acquired Global Workplace Solutions business.
This growth was achieved on top of an exceptionally strong Q4 2014 when revenue increased 28% versus Q4 2013.
Normalized EBITDA for the quarter totaled 518 million a 26% increase from last year’s Q4 or 31% increase in local currency.
Our profit margin also improved significantly.
At 20.3% our normalized EBITDA margin on fee revenue increased 130 basis points over prior year Q4.
Adjusted earnings per share increased 19% to $0.81 for the quarter.
Q4 2015 normalized EBITDA reflects the following adjustments.
26 million of carried interest expense which we will recognize in future period when we record associated revenue.
This aligns the timing of expense and revenue recognition.
24 million of integration cost related to the acquisition of Global Workplace Solutions and 40 million incurred to eliminate cost to enhance margins going forward.
Please turn to slide 8 where we will review Q4 results for our three regional services segments all in local currency.
Fee revenue increased 17% in the Americas as every business line exhibited growth.
In the EMEA fee revenue improved 36% as we saw healthy gains across the region particularly in Germany the Netherlands Spain Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
In Asia Pacific fee revenue rose 27% with Australia Greater China and India setting the pace for growth.
Absent the contributions from the acquired Global Workplace Solutions business fee revenue rose 9% in the Americas 12% in EMEA and 11% in Asia Pacific.
Normalized EBITDA increased 9% for the Americas 45% for EMEA and 24% for Asia Pacific.
Q4 normalized EBITDA margin on fee revenue for the three regions combined was 16.3%.
Please turn to slide 9 for a review of the performance of our major global lines of business in Q4.
All percentage increases are in local currency.
For the company as a whole contractual fee revenue plus leasing which is largely recurring totaled 73% of fee revenue for the quarter.
Occupier outsourcing fee revenue more than doubled with the acquisition of Global Workplace Solutions.
Excluding contributions from this acquisition occupier outsourcing continued to exhibit strong double-digit growth with a 19% increase in fee revenue.
Asset services has a strong quarter fee revenues increased 12% with notable growth in EMEA and the Americas.
Investment management also had a strong quarter revenue rose 22% driven by carried interest on property dispositions reflecting strong returns generated for fund investors.
Our valuations business grew revenue 9%.
Leasing revenue rose 8% globally.
This was muted by 4% growth in the United States which reflects a solid performance on top of an exceptionally strong 28% year-over-year increase in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Global growth and leasing was paced by a 22% increase in Europe notably France and the United Kingdom as well as strong contributions from Canada and Mexico.
Our Capital markets business remained highly active globally although growth rate slowed from earlier in the year.
Global property sales rose 7% after accounting for the decline in market volumes in the United Kingdom.
The global growth rate in Q4 excluding the United Kingdom was 13%.
Investor interest in the United Kingdom remained strong with Cap rate stable and rental rates increasing in Q4.
But we are seeing capital migrate to Continental Europe as local economies there strengthened and property yields are higher.
In the United States our sales revenues grew 10% as we once again gained significant market share according to RCA.
Commercial mortgage services revenue increased 6% as expected gains from mortgage servicing rights with the US government sponsored enterprises were flat as the agencies reached the regulatory caps on their lending.
However loan originations were higher with banks conduits and other debt capital sources.
Our global loan servicing portfolio totaled a 135 billion at year end.
Please turn to slide 10 regarding our occupier outsourcing business which is reported within the three regional services segment.
Even without the benefit of the acquired Global Workplace Solutions business 2015 was a record year in terms of occupier outsourcing contracts.
We brought onboard more new clients and importantly expanded our services scope for more existing clients than ever before.
In addition we continue to make meaningful inroads in Europe and Asia as well as in key verticals like healthcare datacenters and life sciences.
Feedback from our clients has exceeded our expectations and we are on course to materially complete client facing integration activities over the next 60 days.
Please turn to slide 11 regarding our global investment management segment.
Revenue rose 22% in local currency and normalized EBITDA nearly doubled fueled by 30 million of carried interest tied to significant returns for our clients on property dispositions.
The strong performance of our investment programs relative to industry benchmarks continues to help us attract capital.
New equity commitments totaled 7 billion in 2015.
In Q4 assets under management grew 3 billion to 89 billion after a 1.1 billion drag from currency movement.
For the year AUM was up 1.9 billion in local currency but down 1.6 billion when converted in to US dollars.
Please turn to slide 12 regarding our development services segment.
As anticipated development services had a very strong quarter several large asset sales resulted in EBITDA of nearly 75 million for Q4.
Development projects in process totaled 6.7 billion at year-end 2015 up 1.3 billion from 2014.
The pipeline inventory totaled 3.6 billion down 0.4 billion as projects converted to in-process.
Please turn to slide 13.
I will conclude my remarks by reiterating three points that highlight the financial strength of the business.
Normalized EBITDA was up 21% for the year and 26% for the quarter.
We achieved a margin on fee revenue of 18.3% for the year and our available liquidity exceeds $3 billion.
Now please turn to slide 14 as I turn the call back to Bob for closing remarks.
Thanks Jim.
From all you’ve heard today it should be clear that CBRE has a sustainable competitive advantage.
Our leading global brand and strong culture help us to attract and keep tremendous talent and highly desirable clients.
Investments in our platform especially in technology and data analytics are helping our people to create more value for these clients.
Our revenue base is more stable and stickier than ever before.
For 2016 we expect occupier outsourcing to continue its track record at strong performance.
We anticipate low double-digit revenue growth this year before the contributions from the acquired Global Workplace Solutions business.
Leasing revenue should increase at a high-single digit rate as we continue to gain market share.
Our capital markets businesses which consist of property sales and mortgage services are most influenced by the financial markets and volumes can be hard to predict quarter-to-quarter.
However we believe that the strong fundamentals and the value that real estate offers relative to other asset classes will continue to draw global capital to real estate in 2016.
We estimate our capital markets revenue will grow the rate in the mid-to-high single digits.
Normalized EBITDA from our combined principal businesses global investment management and development services is anticipated to be flat to slightly down in 2016 reflecting a very strong 2015.
The shift to a more stable recurring business mix will continue as our financial results include a full year contribution from the acquired Global Workplace Solutions business.
Even with this shift in business mix in 2016 we expect our industry leading margin on fee revenue to approximately 17%.
While we are mindful of concerns about China’s slowing growth and the effect of lower oil prices fundamentals in our sector remain on solid footing.
We are positioned for another strong year in 2016 but are maintaining flexibility in case the economy weakens.
Our outlook is based on economist consensus view that the global economy will maintain its modest rate of growth in 2016.
We anticipate double-digit growth again this year supported by continued gains in market share and expect to achieve adjusted earnings per share in the range of $2.27 to $2.37 for 2016.
This equates to a growth rate of 13% at the midpoint of our guidance.
With that operator we’ll open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] our first question today comes from the line of Anthony Paolone with JP Morgan.
Please proceed with your questions.
My first question is just to try to understand in 2015 can you tell us what the EBITDA was for things like promotes and gains and incentive fees and so forth because it’s a little tough to tie kind of where that shows up in revenue or equity and income and then the adjustments to match expenses that.
So do you have just an EBITDA number for those items in ’15? Hi Anthony its Gil.
We’re not going disclose an EBITDA number but I can tell you that in terms of the gains that being they were mostly attributable to development that were exposed to equity earnings and the carried interest flows through revenue.
Okay so then if I could see what those are and for 2016 then in your guidance am I reading this right that you have that same level of those items in ’16 or no.
Anthony this is Jim Groch.
As we said that we expect for the year that it will be flat to down slightly combined for those two businesses which would include any promote income.
And then also in the investment management slide you can see we breakout promote revenue for that business so that you can see that separately.
And the Anthony I would also just highlight for you that if you’re trying to get to kind of the underlying performance of the three regional services businesses the performance in Q4 and for the year for the three regional services businesses was very strong.
So EBITDA in the three regional service businesses which would not include development or investment management was up 19% in local currency for the quarter 14% in USD.
And then how do we think of the impact of currency in your 2016 guidance right now.
Like how do you guys think about that [dead] end? We can’t forecast obviously gains and losses for hedging positions because the currencies will determine that for us as we see movement throughout the year.
So there’s a good bit headwind already baked in to our forecast.
As you know the dollar strengthened throughout the year and we don’t have any hedging gains in our guidance.
And then Bob you mentioned maintaining flexibility if the economy weakens so just wondering if you can elaborate what that means? Is that built in to your guidance or does that mean that you’re prepared to cost? So just trying to understand what type of process is there? Well part of that comment was related to the broader range than we normally provide.
We normally as you know Anthony provide a nickel range and we’ve provided a dime range this year for earnings.
And then as it relates to the ongoing operations of our business we make choices about growth based an investment based on how we see the year unfold as you would expect us to do.
So that’s really what we’re talking about there.
And then as of now and then just think about your outlook you mentioned using your guide posters as economist views just curiously if anything has changed since your business review day in November in terms of how you’re seeing clients behave or seeing demand either regionally or by business segments if that’s decelerated stayed about the same or just how you’re feeling about that outside of perhaps maybe what the economists are calling for.
No outside of what the economists are talking about what we are seeing with our clients is what you see in the guidance we gave by line of business.
It’s an active market place for what we do.
We are a month in to the year and it’s the slowest month of the year so you can’t draw any conclusions.
We’ve reflected what we believe kind of the collective view of our people and our people on the streets so to speak and our research people and our economist think and that’s all wound up in the guidance we gave by line of business.
Our next question comes from the line of Brad Burke with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with your questions.
I was hoping may be spent some more time just talking about the durability of your business as it stands currently in the event of an economic downturn considering what we’re all seeing in public equity markets and headlines over the last few months.
May be you can give us some metrics to think about on how your business would perform if we were to have a recession and how that compares with what we saw during the last recession.
Well as you know the business is a dramatically different business than existed back in say 2006 or ’07 before the last recession.
Capital markets which is the piece with more variability is more economically sensitive as a much smaller part of the yield for all business the contractual revenues in particular asset management and facility management generally are either stable or in the case of asset services counter cyclical make up a much much larger percentage of the business and that’s growing and will continue to grow as the acquisition shows up in our full year numbers.
So I think the business is just a different business than existed at that time.
And the other comment I would make is our balance sheet is dramatically different balance sheet than existed at that time.
We have enormous liquidity; we have very very small amounts of maturities coming out for the next several years.
So we are nicely poised to take advantage of opportunities.
There are parts of our business that will be impacted if we go in to a recession but overall I think we’ll see tremendous opportunities to take advantage of as well.
And may be talking about the opportunities since M&amp;A has been such a focus can you talk about the flexibility you’re looking to maintain does that imply potential slowdown in incremental M&amp;A activity and also when you look at M&amp;A targets are you seeing any of the weakness that we’re seeing in the public equity markets begin to be reflected and the private M&amp;A multiples that you would be looking at.
Yeah Brad this is Bob.
When we talk about the opportunities we are going to see in a downturn and how we are positioned relative to the last cycle as Jim said not only is our balance sheet dramatically more compelling.
We’ve made a lot of investments in our business that make this a better place for people to come to infill acquisitions want to be here more brokers want to be here more because of the way we can support them through the capabilities we have and as a result when you’re thinking of downturn not only will we have the financial dry powder to invest we’ll have a platform that will be more attractive to different types of targets people and businesses and that proposition we think is really exciting for our company.
Okay and just a touch on incremental M&amp;A at this point would fulfill any acquisitions would we expect you to continue to pace that we’ve seen over the course of 2015.
I think we’re just going to have to see how that plays out.
We continue to be very disciplined we do still have a nice strong volume of infill M&amp;A as strong as we’ve seen in the past.
But we are selective around [fit] and we’re very careful around pricing.
And somewhat related to that are you able to say with the balance sheet at 1.6 times EBITDA now what the guidance range that you have given today would imply for year-end 2016 leverage levels.
We’re not going to give a specific number on that but you know the amount of cash flow that we’re generating.
So unless we do a large transaction in the year it’s likely that we’ll end the year at a lower leverage rate.
Our next question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America - Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead with your questions.
So there’s been some surveys about tightening underwriting standards on commercial real estate loans and some new risk retention regulations coming in fact later this year that may reduce CMBS issuance.
I’m just wondering are you seeing sort of similar trends in your commercial debt markets and what would you expect the impact to be on the capital markets business in 2016 from that.
I’d start by saying the impact from anything that we are aware of is baked in to our guidance.
And I’d also comment that we believe real estate offers compelling value today relative to other asset classes and capital flows in to real estate from enormously varied range of investment types and vehicles.
And just the strength of the fundamentals in the sector and the value that’s embedded in that asset class and what we’ve seen in the market and performance in Q4 leaves us feeling fairly optimistic about the strength of the sector.
Sure.
And then I’m a little bit surprised on the commentary that the two principle businesses could be flat in terms of EBITDA contribution in ’16.
Are there specific funds that have come into maturity or in development projects that are nearing sales that give you pretty good visibility and confidence in that projection.
David we do have good visibility in to those businesses and the reason we’re projecting flat to slightly down is because we had a particularly good fourth quarter this year.
And so we could be surprised as we were by the time we get to next year but we have in both of those businesses we have things going on that make us think we’ll do similarly to what we did this year which would be good performance.
And last one from me the publicly traded REIT index have moved down wondering if you’ve seen a widening out in the private market for bid ask spreads in the capital markets business most recently here in January.
What I would say on that the best day probably is just the cap rates where deals are closing and cap rates have either been flat or improved a bit i.e.
cap rates if your seller cap rates have come down.
So we’re not seeing that.
Our next question comes from the line of Brandon Dobell with William Blair.
Please proceed with your question.
May be a little color on how closely tied the leasing business is becoming to the Occupier Outsourcing and asset services maybe from a couple point of view one how much of leasing revenues in ’15 have some connection to either tight or loose from the Occupier and asset contracts.
How should we think about that number progressing in ’16? And from a contribution point of view given your comments on how leasing growth here looks in to ’16 and how much variability around that growth rate could come from what happens with the Occupier Outsourcing and asset services connection with leasing.
Hi Brandon this is Jim.
I think our strength in the Occupier Outsourcing business supports our ability to gain market share in the Occupier leasing side of the business.
And that’s really the impact.
As we expand contractual relationships with clients on a multi-product outsourcing basis that business becomes stickier actually contractual in many cases and you see our market share improving and it’s just one of the factors that supports our market share gains in the leasing business.
Any sense of how headcount growth looked ’15 versus ’14 in leasing in particular but also across capital markets? Brandon we won’t be giving specific numbers but we had a third straight of very very strong gains associated with recruiting in both the capital market side as we call the brokerage side or leasing side to the tune of hundreds of brokers net.
The other thing that’s really important there is that the average production and we do track this quite closely.
The average production of the people we’re bring on is three times the average production of the brokerage that are exiting and sometimes you’ll read in the market place or hear a story about a CBRE broker that landed somewhere else.
We have close tabs on those ins and outs and not only is the headcount up pretty materially but the average production per producer coming in is very strong.
And then either for Jim or Gil you guys talked about the cost containment expenses I think it was a $40 million number in the quarter.
What is actually expected to keep going is that related to GWS or is it something separate.
Just want to get a sense of what that is and how we should think about it this year.
Sure.
Late in the second half of last year we started looking around in our business as we’d almost doubled the size of the company in four years.
And as we get more granular looking at the margins in the company and in businesses around the world we started to focus more on businesses that have margins that we felt should be higher than they were.
And that’s been our focus and that’s what those charges are.
So while we grew headcount quite a bit in the business we did have material number of folks that we let go to make businesses more efficient where we just felt the businesses were underperforming.
And probably we’ll be continuing to look for those opportunities throughout the year.
Was that or will it be concentrated in a particular geography or service line? No we are looking everywhere.
As you know we get pretty granular down at the markets and submarkets around the world by lines of business.
So it’s a global initiative to be particularly focused on businesses that just may not have received as much attention in this perhaps they should have received at a time where we’ve just been growing the business so much.
And final one from me your expectations for synergies or growth from GWS compared to the prior expectations that you guys have put out around the time of the acquisitions how you think about that either contribution or impacting ’16 versus your prior thoughts.
No change to our prior guidance.
I think we’re very much on track with the guidance we’ve given.
Our next question comes from the line of Mitch Germain with JMP Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Bob you talked about the addition of several hundred net producers.
I guess I am just curious I couldn’t understand from your commentary in terms of your sentiments towards recruiting going in to 2016.
Is it just as strong or has it come down a bit here.
Here’s how we think about that.
Every year we have targets Mitch and we have a very active program with our leaders around the world.
And when I say leaders around the world not just at the high level but all the way in to the local markets to recruit.
We will have that again this year the last three years we’ve exceeded our going in expectations.
We will pursue an aggressive path this year and as the year unfolds we’ll determine what we actually do.
One of the things I will say is that there’s been some foolish deals made in all three regions of the world in recruiting.
We will not participate in that activity we’ll be very careful on an individual by individual basis to make sure anybody we bring on we bring on a basis that works obviously for them but also for our company and we’ll see how the market place for recruiting unfolds during the year.
But going in we expect to have an aggressive program again this year.
And then just what’s your thoughts regarding capital markets your guidance kind of mid to high-single digit.
Is there a way to think about how you’re looking at that on a regional basis? I think the only comment we make on a regional basis is that we expect Asia Pacific region to be softer although let’s say in the rage of plus or minus flat relative to the Americas and Europe where we expect it to be stronger.
The other comment I would make is just Asia is obviously a pretty small part of our business in the capital market side.
Understood.
How’s the integration going at point? I know you updated us at the investor day but just curious as we sit here in the start of February? The big thing I’d point to there Mitch is our people and our clients.
It’s going quite well with our clients and the single most probably satisfying part of this whole combination is that our people and the legacy GWS people are really quite excited about what the combined business has to offer.
So it’s going well with our clients it’s going well with our people and Jim already commented on the financial side of things as expected.
How does the cross-sell of services I mean what’s the timing on when you could start to unlock some of those ancillary revenues? Our position on that hasn’t changed.
It hasn’t been even six months yet and so our total focus is on transitioning those accounts transitioning the people related to the accounts and doing a great job for the clients.
And if we do that we’re going to have lots of cross-sell opportunities because those are big big names obviously in the corporate world and they have a lot of real estate needs and we think there will be opportunity out there but we’re not handicapping what that will be.
We’re simply focused on doing a great job for them under the assumption that that will be rewarded when it happens.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Paolone with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead with your question.
Just a few follow-ups.
Can you put any parameters around investment sales and how much of that revenue comes from say smaller building sales whatever that breakpoint may be in your view versus say the more core major assets and the more institutional realm? Just trying to understand where the revenue comes from there.
Anthony we don’t break that out we do have substantial businesses both ends of the spectrum and in the middle and by the way both ends and the middle are all growing.
But we do not break that out.
And so I guess going down the path in my mind thinking about CMBS spreads widening and the liquidity there getting more difficult do you see that putting pressure on perhaps the lower end of that spectrum at all or is that not something you guys believe is going to play out.
We don’t see that having a big impact they’re just enough varied sources of capital and enough interest in the sector that we don’t think that will have a big impact.
And then in Europe it seems like there’s been this divergence between what’s happen on the sales side and the leasing side.
How do you think that plays out in the next few quarters? It’s a little hard to say because it’s also varying perhaps from market to market.
So the UK on the sales side has been incredibly strong for a number years volume was down significantly in the quarter and the cap rates were lower i.e.
improved if you’re a seller in the quarter and rental rates rose in Q4 in the UK from Q3.
So the fundamentals of the market are really strong and I think capital tends to get ahead of the fundamentals.
So the investors are smart and they’re looking ahead and I think we’re now finally seeing the fundamentals begin to improve in a material way on the leasing side.
But that in and of itself is positive for the capital side as well so I think it’s playing out in a way that feels rational.
Couldn’t comment more than that.
And then with regards to the more one-time in nature items like the business initiatives and the deal related costs.
I know those are tough to predict but you had a lot of them in the quarter.
Does that come down in the next few quarters or do you expect an elevated level of those types of adjustments because of some of the reviews of the businesses that you mentioned earlier.
We’re not predicting any specific numbers on that front.
I will tell you that we’re very careful about numbers that we normalize so we’re always cutting we’re always attentive cost structure and we’re always trimming a little here or there and we don’t normalize for that activity.
We don’t even normalize for one-time cost on most of our infill acquisitions.
So we try to be prudent around how we think about and deal with one-time cost and even now as we’re going through with some more material cost reduction program where it does make sense to normalize out some of these costs so people have a real understanding of the underlying business.
Even in that process we’re being very careful.
We really let someone go because of underperformance to not count that cost or any cost that might be attributed to that because those aren’t more permanent reductions.
So I think you can feel comfortable as an investor that we’re attentive to trying to be thoughtful about that.
And if you see more one-time cost it will be because we found opportunities to increase margins and businesses and there’s some real costs associated with it.
Okay and as you guys go through this review and look at the cost structure you know in the last downturn I think I don’t remember exactly what the number was but I think it went in to the hundreds of millions of dollars that you guys pulled out of the system.
Do you think that there is things of that magnitude that are going to emerge or do you feel like you’re going in to ’16 with just much leaner business than perhaps in hindsight you had going in to the last downturn.
Anthony this is nothing remotely like that.
The cost we cut in the fourth quarter in the program we’re working with is as Jim said it’s not the routine ongoing shedding of cost here and there in the business.
It was a meaningful cost cutting effort but it is not in the same league with what we did in ’07-’08 I guess in ’08 and’09.
Nothing like that the business is generally lean.
Look we’ve grown for several years and as Jim said we’ve doubled the business over the last four years and we’ve been focused on offense and we found there were some opportunities so we got after it in a meaningful way.
But it’s not what you remember from before.
Yeah and Anthony just to put that in to perspective the cost cutting the charge there its less than a half of 1% of our cost structure.
So the business is much much larger and the cost cuts are much much smaller.
I think we are still in a growth mode.
We’re just looking more granularly at individual businesses that are underperforming relative to expectations.
So our expectations - and that we’re just trying to be thoughtful business managers as we do that.
There are no additional questions at this time.
Mr.
Sulentic would you like to make any closing remarks? Thanks to everybody for being with us and we’ll talk you again at the end of the first quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
We thank you for your participation.