Before beginning today’s call the company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company’s future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company’s press release and the SEC filings.
While forward-looking statements represent management’s best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining our call to review the Company’s performance for the second quarter.
With me today are Lasse Petterson CB&amp;I’s Chief Operating Officer; Dan McCarthy President of Lummus Technology and Ron Ballschmiede CB&amp;I’s Chief Financial Officer who will report our financial results for the quarter.
Following our remarks we will open the call for your questions.
But first let me just briefly say that we’re very pleased with the Company’s performance in the second quarter and with the new awards we announced its not a best start to Q3.
We’ve backlog now over the $10 billion mark.
The new awards covered with continuing great performance by our current backlog in each sector certainly support our confidence in our business model and our ability to continue to drive solid (rains).
Therefore we are ranging our guidance range for new awards to $6.8 billion to $7.2 billion ranging our earnings per share guidance to the range of $2.35 to $2.45 and maintaining our current outlook on revenue to be in the range of $4.3 billion $4.7 billion for the year.
Now I’m going to pass here next Lasse and Dan to provide the color around the markets and operations for CB&amp;I Lummus Steel Plate Structures and Lummus Technology followed by Ron who will highlight the financial results.
So Lasse I must begin with you.
Okay good afternoon.
I will beginning my comments with new awards for the year and then give a brief update on our main ongoing projects.
A second quarter awards total $1.2 billion which include a $300 million gas processing plant in North Eastern US.
The plant process natural gas from new shale gas production.
CB&amp;I is providing the process technology for the plant we’re executing the EPC process work and we’re delivering the plant storage vessels.
This award demonstrates the advantage we can deliver to our clients by combining capabilities across our three business sectors.
We see more opportunities in this market for similar projects as shale gas production ramps up over the next few years.
Other second quarter awards include a $150 million detailed engineering contract for the top size facilities for an offshore field development in the UK sector of the North Sea for Nexen Petroleum.
We also announced storage tanks projects in the Canadian oil sands and in the Bahamas during the second quarter.
Last week we signed a $2.3 billion contract with Chevron for the mechanical electrical and instrumentation work on the Gorgon LNG project in Australia.
As you are aware we’re already working on the Barrow Island sites as the EPC contractor for the projects to LNG tanks.
The Gorgon project has three LNG trains each designed to produce 5 million tons of LNG per year.
The Gorgon (NYSE:<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MBI" title="MBIA Inc.">MBI</a>) contracts scope of work is to receive install hook up and complete the process modules for the Gorgon LNG trains on Barrow Island.
The 270 000 tons of process modules are being fabricated at various yards in the region.
Construction of LNG trains has been CB&amp;I’s core business for many years throughout the world and particularly in Australia where we’re currently engaged on the Pluto project and where we have previously completed Woodside trains IV and V.
Our product management personnel in Perth will start immediately to plan and prepare for the execution of the project with the main volume of construction work to be performed between 2012 and 2014.
The 400 process modules will be delivered to the Island starting in 2012.
At peak who will hire some 2 000 people engaged on the project the majority of the project staff and crafts will come from our current Australia organization with some additional resource coming from (inaudible) of experienced LNG project personnel.
Just a few more facts about the award.
We’ve formed a joint venture with Kentz and with CB&amp;I as the leader with a 65% share.
This is reimbursable contract with the incentives focused on safety quality cost and schedule.
This is a great win for CB&amp;I we’ve been working in Australia for more than 75 years and this award position us well to continue to be Australia’s leading energy contractor and major participant on future project in Australia’s promising LNG resource developments.
Finally on new awards today we announced a $500 million EPC contract for 260 000 cubic meter tanks on another LNG project in Asia Pacific region and a $60 million tank project in Saudi Arabia for Ma’aden Bauxite and Alumina Company.
These three contracts will be in the third quarter awards.
So again it was a good second quarter and a great month.
We’ve been saying that we see our markets building momentum and the awards we have received year-to-date are certainly proving that to be the case.
Now let me provide an update on our major project currently underway.
We have two LNG projects on a development for Russia where the FEED engineering work for the Shtokman and Yamal project is ongoing in our London office.
Through our joint venture which are on site we are participating in the field work on the Barrow’s LNG development for Western Australia.
The field work is on schedule for completion in the first half for 2012 and it will include the submission of an EPC contract price for the full LNG plan development.
We’re also engaged in several studies for LNG like a fashion trains in the US and Africa.
All of these studies on FEED projects offer us encouraging opportunities for additional EPC work in 2012 and onwards.
In Papua New Guinea our two EPC contracts for Esso’s Papua New Guinea LNG project are project are progressing well.
For the LNG tanks at the sites on the coast in Port Moresby the excavation work is underway and work on the tanks foundation will begin soon.
Prefabrication of structures and equipment for the tanks are ongoing at a yard in (inaudible).
On the Hides gas conditioning plant in Papua New Guinea Islands we’ve mobilized to the sites engineering is more than 85% complete procurement or equipment well advanced however construction progress is somewhat delayed due to local issues and weather.
Turning to South America the REFICAR refinery project in Cartagena Columbia is progressing well.
This month we installed the 280 foot tall NAFTA hydrotreating tower which was a major undertaking and a significant milestone.
We are also completing about 85% of pilings near 14 000 in all and the current field work on the sites.
80 process modules are being built in our Island for publication facility in Belmont Texas in our sites our manpower currently 2.600 crafts.
In the US construction is well underway on the 200 million cubic foot per day gas processing plant at Occidental Elk Hills field in California.
The engineering is nearly complete and equipment loads are arriving daily at site.
And in Canada the Kearl oil sands project continues to make steady progress.
Three of the six FSU vessels are finished and being installed and the primary separation cell vessel and the storage tanks are on schedule.
However our client has experienced some permitting challenges for transportation of client supplied equipment modules through Idaho and Montana and the potential impact on our schedule is currently being evaluated.
In the Middle East we are working on Lummus steel plate structure projects.
One of our larger projects is the GASCO LPG project in Abu Dhabi where we are constructing eight storage tanks and six hygienic tanks and two NAFTA storage tanks and associated piping and electric and instrumentation systems.
The project is ahead of schedule the construction of all tanks ongoing at various stages of completion.
We are also executing two separate storage tank projects 90 tanks in all as part of Takreer’s refinery expansion project in Abu Dhabi.
Construction and fabrication are well underway and the projects are scheduled to be completed in 2012.
In closing I’m saying that the market – I’ll close by saying that iron markets are obviously continuing to gain momentum and that’s evidenced by the recent awards.
We’re well positioned to capitalize on this positive development.
Thank you.
Thank you Lasse.
Dan? Good afternoon.
I’m pleased to report that Lummus Technologies business development is continuing to progress inline with our expectations.
During the quarter we enjoyed success in olefins with another methanol-to-olefins award two ethylene revamps and redesign project.
On the refining side we had awards in gasoline processing and delayed coking.
Our CLG joint venture which is not consolidated benefited from a hydrocracker award a lube oil expansion and a number of catalyst awards.
Well the value of the consolidated awards for the second quarter is somewhat lower than the previous two quarters it is mostly matter of the timing.
There were delays in awards of a few larger projects which we believe are on track to be awarded in the second half of 2011.
Market activity remained strong and we project the significant growth in backlog for the year.
I think it is also worthwhile to note that CLG’s increase in new business which we reported in the first quarter continues and have now booked more than 50% of their plan in the first half of the year.
These awards will drive an increase in earnings on the equity income line as a year progresses.
For the past year or so we have been discussing the potential impact of shale gas on our business.
We’ve now seen shift from the planning to the engineering stage.
A good example is they recently announced CB&amp;I gas plant award based on a proprietary Lummus Technology processing scheme which Lasse just mentioned.
We’re tracking several other similar opportunities as most of these gas reserves contain natural gas liquids and excellent petrochemical FEED stock we expect the number of ethylene projects to follow.
We recently began working on an expansion of an ethylene plant in the United States and continued to support ethylene producers in a variety of planning studies.
We anticipate additional engineering awards for the remainder of 2011 with full EPC contracts being released throughout 2012.
They are also increasing opportunities for on-purpose propylene production by our Olefins Conversation Technology and CATOFIN dehydrogenation process.
The refining licensing business has also begun to rebound.
This is driven by higher spreads between light and heavy oil improved refining margins and continued demand growth for the (inaudible).
These trends are generating interest in various conversion processes such as hydrocracking and delayed coking.
Much of this activity has been centered in high growth regions such as China Russia and the Middle East where we’ve had good win rates.
From a regional perspective we continue to see a strong level of activity in China and in the Middle East these regions have been important contributors over the last few years.
We were also noticing significant growth of new business opportunities in Russia.
In summary we are very encouraged by the market environment whether it be gas processing or Olefins in North America or refining in petrochemicals in Asia-Pacific the Middle East or Russia.
We believe we have the product solution and experience to support our customers in achieving their objectives.
Thank you.
Thank you Dan.
Ron let’s review the numbers.
Thanks Phil and good afternoon everyone.
With that overview of our major activities around the world let me take you through our solid financial results for the quarter.
Revenue for the second quarter was $1.1 billion up a $170 million or 19% from the second quarter of 2010.
The revenue increase reflects the increasing activities of our backlogs as our major projects begin to move towards the construction phase of the work scope.
We expect this increased project activity to continue throughout 2011 providing sequential quarterly increase revenue consistent with what we’ve seen for the last several quarters.
We are also reaffirmed full year revenue guidance of $4.3 to $4.7 billion.
Our gross profit for the quarter was a solid $140 million or 12.9% representing the relative contribution of each of our sectors.
Up back and discuss the changes in our revenue and operating income by business sector in a moment.
Selling and administrative expenses remained well controlled increasing $2.1 million or 4.6% to $48.5 million for the second quarter.
The consolidation of CD tech resulting from the acquisition of it’s residual interest in December 2010 accounted for the majority of this increase.
Selling and administrative expenses for the quarter were 4.5% of the revenues compared to 5.1 for the comparable quarter 2010 benefiting from our increased revenue volume.
We continue to expect our full year 2011 selling and administrative expenses to be approximately 4.5% of revenues.
Second quarter operating income was $88.4 million or strong 8.1% of revenues compared to $70.9 million or 7.7% of revenues in the second quarter of 2010.
Our tax rate for the quarter was 28.8% consistent with our expectations for the full year tax rate.
The summation of all of that results in the second quarter net income of $61.9 million or $0.62 per diluted share.
Earnings in the quarter and the year-to-date earnings per share of $1.12 reflect a strongest second quarter and first-six months earnings in our history.
EBITDA totaled $105.7 million for the quarter or 9.7% of revenues.
Our earnings to-date and our confident to the quality of our backlog have allowed to increase and narrow the range of our earnings per share guidance.
As we indicated in our earnings release our revised 2011 EPS guidance is $2.35 to $2.45 per share.
Now let me take you through the sector results.
Each of our sectors 2011 results were consistent with our expected annual range of operating results which we discussed previously.
Specifically our performance expectations our operating income in the range of 7% to 10% for Steel Plate Structures 3% to 6% for CB&amp;I Lummus and annual operating income for Lummus Technology of $100 million plus or minus 10%.
Lasse and Dan spoke to our new awards prospect activity so I’ll provide some overall comments.
Our new awards for the second quarter totaled just over $1.2 billion for a book to burn ratio of 112% compared to $916 billion new awards for the 2010 comparable period.
Press release rewards totaled approximately $540 million the largest which was $300 million gas plant which Lasse discussed earlier.
The balance of approximately $680 million represent smaller new awards in project growth which was spread nicely between our sectors and project types around the world.
Our new awards for the first six months the large third quarter awards announced in last couple of weeks and prospects for the balance of the year enable us to increase our full year 2011 new award guidance to $6.8 billion to $7.2 billion.
Steel Plate Structures reported second quarter 2011 revenue of $456 million an increase of 27% from the $360 million in 2010.
The increase reflects higher activity on our 2009 large awards in the Middle East and Australia partly offset by lower volumes of Steel Plate Structure work in Americas.
Operating income totaled $47 million or 10.4% of revenues compared to $33 million or 9% revenues in 2010.
The increase in operating margin reflects a good mix of storage tank around the world and improved cost recoveries driven by the higher volumes.
CB&amp;I Lummus revenues totaled for $542 million in 2011 an increase of $36 million or 7% from 2010.
The revenue increase from our REFICAR refinery Papua New Guinea gas plant and Kearl oil sands projects certainly fueled – more the growth in that and we are partially offset by lower US and South America LNG work.
Both REFICAR and PNG projects are progressing well with higher revenue burn expected for the balance of the year and beyond.
Income from operations totaled $24 million or 4.5% of revenues in the second quarter compared to $25 million or 5% in 2010.
Factors contributing to the change in operating margins include an increase level of reimbursable projects and higher pre-contract cost driven by an increase in bid activity.
Finally Lummus Technology had a strong quarter reporting revenues of $88 million an increase of $50 million from the second quarter of 2010.
This revenue increase was primarily driven by the strength of the global petrochemical market which Dan spoke to earlier and revenue resulting for the sub-consolidation of CD Tech.
Second quarter operating income totaled $16 million up from $13 million in the comparable quarter of 2010 reflecting the high level of activity during the quarter.
Our balance sheet liquidity remain strong with a cash balance of $376 million.
No revolver borrowings and cash net of debt of just under $300 million.
During the quarter we returned $57 million to our shareholders through $5 million of dividends and repurchases of $52 million of our shares.
For the first two quarter our share repurchase and dividends totaled just short of $100 million.
In closing our strong backlog and financial position provides us with the necessary financial flexibility to deliver our projects and take advantage of the energy market demands for our services.
We are well positioned for opportunities to grow our company and continue to provide strong returns to our shareholder.
Phil? Thank you Ron.
Now we’ll open the call for your questions.
(Operator instructions).
Our first question is from the line of Will Gabrielski with Gleacher.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
Hi Will.
A couple of questions first the Lummus Tech margin in the quarter was a little bit lower than last quarter and you are running I guess below the midpoint of what full-year would get – would need to be at for that $100 million plus or minus 10%.
Any thoughts on what – how confident you are on the back half of the year and how conservative your EPS guidance would be if that run rate picked up? Yeah I’ll let Dan respond to that   Yeah I think that the business results for this quarter really sort of a result of mix and timing and so we think that you know we have our full year forecast and we don’t see anything that it’s on horizon that prevents us from meeting that range that we put out in the past.
Yeah when we talked about in the first quarter I think we’ve continued to say that look at business as around $100 million income business with some plus or minus we think not much variability in there.
We’re still confident that’s where we are going to land.
Okay.
I’ll just follow up on the Kearl project.
Can you remind me and us possibly if that was cost plus a fixed price you’re scope of work there.
And as a second part to that with the consolidation of three phases down to two that Imperial announced.
When do you think you could see incremental scope associated with that project? Yeah I don’t know that we have talked about the contractor terms at Kroll but I think you can consider that as most major projects more vibrant with we have long preliminary period which was lot of reimbursable and fixed a lot of pricing towards the last tranche of that.
So I mostly – it’s kind of the hybrid.
That job again is continuing to be on track with as Lasse said there are some issues regarding some of the owner supply modules but those aren’t necessarily our issue but we’ve been talking about potential expansion hopefully start getting on with that before the end of the year with a very similar scope.
Okay.
And then lastly in terms of the visibility and US gas processing plants it seems like there is more of that work coming.
How well positioned are you and how is the competitive market for that versus some of the other markets you are compete in? Well I’ll let Dan expand on but I think as Dan implied I think we’re very well positioned.
Certainly from the technology side to kind of you know in a very early look they have been very instrumental in our ability to get – to win the awards on this major expansions as we have seen in (inaudible) last year at LPOs and certainly with this new plant in the North East that we announced at the very end of quarter.
So we are very well positioned for that work there is several layers obviously and as far as the infrastructure associated directly with the shale gas we think we’ve got some proprietary technology and some ways to certainly address that market as well.
And then I think as Dan talked about the collateral benefits you will – or other benefits as far as what we see the increased activity in the petrochemical markets and infrastructure potential those seem to beginning pretty good pace and are getting traction.
Dan you want to add anything to that? I definitely would I like to first in terms of how we approach the market I think we bring a better technical solution that has operating benefits to the end user recovering more ethane and propane which is really the value right now out of these wells.
And then secondly we are finding there is a lot of linkages between projects which on gas processing and olefins.
People before they are making a commitment on the olefins plant they are working with people on the gas processing side.
And so we are actually getting to see where those linkages are and I think that’s the strong benefit for us and then when we wrap around the full scope as we talked earlier that we can do the engineering construction we can provide the tanks people like that I mean gas processes enjoy the fact that they have one person to deal with.
Thank you very much.
Yeah Will.
Thank you.
Our next question is from line of Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with our question.
Hi Joe.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone.
I think it’s a great quarter.
Thank you.
The first question I have is really on the Gorgon project.
If we think about that project that’s obviously a huge project for you guys can you talk a little about two things one your capacity to do additional mechanical erection work in Australia given the size and potential constrains of the Gorgon project.
And in addition if you could maybe talk a little about the contract structure to give us a sense for how you’re mitigating the risk of that contract whether it’s a fixed price cost plus hybrid contract that will be very helpful.
Let me start and then I’ll let Lasse add some comments and expand on that as well.
Bear in mind we are doing the mechanical erection and electrical work already for Pluto in support that as we concluded the – as we concluded our tank.
So we had existing workforce there already.
As you can imagine Joe and I think as you have noted this – the Gorgon project has had a long cycle time.
We’ve had certainly part our obligation and certainly in our discussion with the owner we had to demonstrate a plan to be able to staff that work adequately from a variety of sources.
And of course the fact that it’s – the majority of the work is being modularized and shift into Australia.
Certainly helps to mitigate the risk of labor not just an absolute cost.
But certainly availability so we started to look at that and we are certainly prepared to respond and so I don’t know.
You want add some more to Lasse? But the cost as I think as Lasse said this is going to be cost reimbursement project it’s from a risk standpoint it’s certainly – and we have a partner we can choose well known world renowned E&amp;I contractors.
So we think we mitigate that risk on labor pretty well.
Lasse? Yes.
As we said it’s cost reimbursable contract.
We have incentives on quality schedule safety and cost.
So from the perspective I think it’s a – contract suits us very well.
And we have a great following in Australia from being present in the country for 70 years.
So resourcing will come from existing Australian organization and we will supplement that with personnel from our worldwide organization and we have people coming off projects such as Peru and so forth.
So they will have being made available as required.
Yeah I think also Joe bear in mind that we are working in a variety of roles or in a variety of places throughout the regions.
So it’s not as if we are having parachute a team in for Gorgon.
We are at various stages not only in Papua New Guinea but certainly in other parts of Australia our tanks and other assignments.
So we feel pretty well pretty prepared to meet the challenges from a labor standpoint on this job.
And certainly Chevron agrees.
Okay.
That’s really helpful.
I guess even beyond this job would you guys still think you have opportunity to do this type of work as some of the other projects move to further stages.
So for example with GLNG or QCLNG as we move further along in the project completion there would guys be able to step in and do this the same type of mechanical erection work on this project? Well certainly I mean that’s been a core competency of our for 75 years in Australia and we certainly think that we can step in if asked to do that.
We’ve been doing that for on (inaudible) 25 for at Woodside historically and we just have to look at it case by case.
From what we see in front of us we think we’re pretty well positioned for that work.
Okay.
Great.
I guess switching gears on the Lummus Technology you mentioned that you feel pretty comfortable with our guidance of $100 million in EBIT plus or minus 10%.
Even if you got the I guess the low end of the range of $90 million for the year you would still be looking at $25 million in EBIT a quarter.
So I just wanted to clarify the $25 million to $30 million in EBIT over the next couple of quarters is something you still think is very feasible? That’s the way we see it.
Okay great.
Well that’s all I have.
Thank you for – thanks for the time.
Okay.
Thanks Joe.
Our next question is from line of Scott Levine with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good afternoon Scott.
Good afternoon Phil.
With regard to this bookings you had a couple of large wins here very recently and some of these are on jobs as you mentioned that have been ongoing for a while.
But I’m wondering like is the year from an order flow standpoint irrespective of the guidance raise is playing out.
How is it playing out relative to your expectations when you establish the initial guidance? And are you seeing additional projects new projects being sanctioned at the pace you would expect? Or have you seen any change in the pace of order activity really since maybe even since early April we have more volatility in the markets in general.
Yeah.
Well we’ve been talking about the potential of upside and the rewards since the last call and I think in other conversations we have or conferences and elsewhere.
So we’ve been working towards the possibility of this upside and these new awards.
We’re pleased that we are able to and this is only through the hard work of a lot of teams around the world to be able to conclude these contracts and given the reward where we could announce at midpoint as opposed to just perhaps just talking about a range in our guidance in our comfort we’ve actually got these awards.
Now we still got a lot of work to do.
I mean we used to get the rest of the year when we get some new awards are still out in front of us.
I think as we are reviewing and looking at 2012 and beyond and some of the developments not only continuing LNG but petrochemical and gas processing we are very enthusiastic about the potential we see going in the out years so.
Not only we feel confident on our range for this year and our new guidance but certainly what that means for 2012 and beyond.
Understand.
Maybe as one follow-up on 2012 and beyond.
You affirmed your traditional margin range is for the individual segments and the profit outlook for Lummus Technology but as we think about some of these larger projects that you booked and in the out years not asking for guidance.
How should we think about the margin trajectory going forward particularly your steel plate kind of poked above the high end of your traditional 7% to 10% range.
Yeah.
I know we keep – every time we set the range we keep as you say poking above those but I think that is where we would suggest that you stay within those brackets that we said.
There is a lot of reimbursement work the mix has changed I mean we’re going for that 50-50 reimbursable and I think I don’t have the exact number but it’s probably looks more like a 60-40 mix now with reimbursable.
We got to take some time and analyze how that the burn rate is going in 2012 and look how that impact is relative to these margins but I don’t see any reasons to change those brackets we’ve given you for any circumstance.
Certainly technology is holding course and actually Steel Plate Structures have been performing and outperforming what our original expectation were.
And then the EPC side of business which carries a lot of our cost and pre-contract cost.
We need sometime to look at that but you know it’s going to be probably similar to last year where we saw this relationship between backlog and revenues a little bit different than historically.
So we are going to have to look at that burn rates and then use the back half of the year to guide you into 2012 to 2013.
Thanks.
Nice quarter.
All right.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hello Andy.
Hey guys.
Good evening.
It’s Alan Fleming stepping in for Andy this evening.
My first question is around gross margin.
You had pretty good gross margin again in the quarter around 13% it was down sequentially a bit but I think in the past you have got it to around 10.5% to maybe 12.5%.
And it seems like your business is clearly better than that.
So I was just kind of wondering how should we think about our guidance is it conservative what should we think about going forward? Alan as I just told Scott.
I think we would then suggest that you stay within those brackets but we try to guide you towards looking at operating income as the metric that we will suggest to use simply because of the differences in our three sectors and the commercial characteristics.
Ron do you want to add?.
Yeah.
Particularly with the growth in Lummus Technology and with its ventures and otherwise it’s very hard to – it’s a lot lot easier to understand our business with the operating income line.
And to Phil’s point on on even in a new awards that we’ve enjoyed year-to-date we are certainly selling them that will continue to support the ranges that we have been talking about there.
So we don’t see any change in that.
So it’s a much better way to get a better model if you will is to focus on the operating income rather than a consolidated GP number.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
I have a follow up around the Middle East market.
Okay.
You guys have been traditional big in storage there.
We saw the $60 million award from Modern this afternoon but we have maybe seen a lot of other sizeable projects materializing that region.
So can you just talk a little bit about what you are seeing is it been sluggish there and kind of when are you seeing a pick up in activity? Well we have seen a good market there for our Steel Plate Structures business.
I mean the tank business in the Middle East has been very very good for us particularly in Saudi Arabia and through the Emirates.
And we need to see that to continue a lot of comments and questions about the Koreans competitions.
Actually the Koreans have been some of our best customers in the Middle East relative to Steel Plate Structures.
When we get into the downstream of petrochemical business or the chemical business it gets a little more problematic in terms of you know how competitive are we.
Can we be and how we are going to approach that market but right now we see a pretty good business.
Our plan going forward is not really dependent on the Middle East downstream market to tell you the truth.
So we are hopeful that maybe we can find the solution to a situation there but we are not only dependent on that particular region except from Steel Plate Structures standpoint.
And also technology our technology business is extremely strong but EPC we got a lot of place in the world to capitalize on.
It’s always been a market where we’ve had one or two major storage projects going like the GASCO job we are going now but a lot of singles and doubles in the region.
I think just – if can add one more comment that there are places in world such as the Middle East such as Russia China India where we have a great technology business in some cases our Steel Plate Structures business.
And it becomes a different type of market for us if you’re talking about is there infrastructure but certainly great opportunities for us in both those other sectors.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Our next question is from the line Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi.
Hello Jamie.
Good evening and congratulations.
A couple of questions one the question was answered earlier and I think by Will he talked about on sort of the Kearl project and it was a supply unit that you know concerns around the suppliers and you said it’s really not your problem.
I just want to get a little more color there and I think you also mentioned you know some issues and in Papua New Guinea.
And so can you just elaborate more on those and should we take any hit on the quarter? And then my follow-up question you raised your EPS guidance the revenue guidance is unchanged.
I guess I am surprised by the recent win with Gorgon and some of your other recent wins.
So just especially we do JV partner and Gorgon is saying the project should begin immediately.
So if you could provide color on those I appreciate it.
Okay.
So we got Kearl you got Papua New Guinea and… And then your revenue guidance.
And the revenue guidance okay.
Gorgon.
Kearl normally we wouldn’t get that granular into some of the execution issue but I think it came out in the newspaper it has been well publicized that there has been some issues as far as the transportation of modules.
And probably a little extreme state it’s not our problem because it’s – we are in the business of solving problems for our clients but as far as our contractor and our scope that – you know other than just having to adjust schedules and certainly – and deliverables that’s where it becomes the project’s challenge.
So I’d probably characterize that little bit differently.
But it’s you know we are looking at the next phases or some different ways to execute a similar scope and we’ll get those things solved.
But that’s the reason I want to mention that and Lasse mentioned it because it has been publicized and want to just clarify that.
But as far as our plan there is nothing that would compromise our plan or our forecast that we just gave you.
The Papua New Guinea – and I guess the revenue issued is pretty similar.
Of course it’s been well publicized that in Papua New Guinea they’ve had some challenges on some of the local travel issues and some of the infrastructure that supports the gas conditioning site that we’re working on.
Again it’s not a contract that were at risk as far as our financial plans and we don’t think there is going to be an issue other than – it makes the burn of our revenue a little more sluggish than what we had originally forecasted which is why you see we haven’t changed our range.
The second thing even though perhaps someone says that we are going to start immediately on Gorgon.
We have started immediately on Gorgon.
But that’s been a while and that has a certain mobilization period and ramping up.
So we think if you look at that we’ll clarify that as we get closer till the end of the year.
We think in the characteristics in terms of revenue on Gorgon will probably start really getting interesting towards the end of the back half of ‘12 and going into ‘13.
I think the nice thing about these Jamie is that we are able to get these kind of results in our current backlog and even though we’ve had a little bit sluggish in some of the reimbursable jobs.
What that means for 2012 or 2013 when we start looking at some of those curves and then we keep feeling that the backlog was some work it gets pretty interesting.
So it’s not all bad news but that’s why we kept the revenue range where it is.
Okay.
Great.
And there has been cost adjustments on those jobs we just talked about.
Right.
To answer your earlier question.
Well that’s right.
Sorry I missed it.
Okay.
Didn’t mean to harp on the negative.
Congratulations.
No it’s okay.
We are not only giddy I’m just saying that you know when we look at that that revenue and I think we kind of caution everyone last quarter that it’s not a – and because and mix of the work is got to change this burn ratio.
So I think last year we went from to about 35% burn I believe.
We’ve been talking about 50% maybe the new reality.
We’re going to have analyze that going to next year to see how all this – how all these are going to ramp up and what that’s going to be in terms of our outlook.
Okay.
The magnitude and duration of Gorgon will change that conclusion from what we had in backlog before that.
But the good news is got a majority of all this huge backlogs we’ve announced over the last year or so we still have most of it.
Thanks.
I’ll get back in queue.
Sorry Jamie.
Our next question is from the line of Rob Norfleet with BB&amp;T Capital Markets please go ahead.
Hey Rob.
Hey good afternoon and congratulations on a great quarter.
Thank you.
Just a couple of follow-on questions in terms of the margins that CBI Lummus clearly they improved versus Q1 which we talked about on the last quarter call but I want to ask Ron was there still – there is still some modest impact from free construction costs and stock based comp expense and how should that trend over the second half of the year?  Yeah right now the stock based compensation as I recall it is like $20 million in the first quarter and – but the expectation for full year is above $35 million.
So second third and fourth all have about the same load of incentive comps.
So that’s first quarter only phenomena.
But the rest of it is you’re certainly getting some leverage out of S&amp;A about 60 basis points there from Q1 to Q2 that essentially is allocated down to the units in pro rata to its revenues or some other cost driver but it’s pretty much pushed down in that way.
And then hopefully though hopefully the higher bidding activity continues throughout the year but...
Okay.
And if we were to just to look at the high end of the potential range for this business at 6% I mean what needs to happen to get there is it more pricing is it execution is it utilization? I’m just trying kind of understand as we kind of see these projects starting to ramp up and clearly you’re executing well.
How we kind of see margin expansion in the Lummus business takes place? You’re trying on the EPC side of the house right?  Correct.
I’m sorry.
Well maybe you can speculate and say there could be more – well some opportunities which drives some premiums.
There could be contracts which has certain terms if we don’t forecast but we have until they’re earned.
There could be upside that I think if you historically look at the industry we’re right at towards the top of the range in terms of what this kind of business should be able to generate on this amount of volume.
And there’s still some leverage coming out some leverage coming out of S&amp;A and in the fixed cost structure that they have.
So as we ramp up the revenues from some of these large jobs we’ve been talking about we’ll see some improvement coming out of that.
But that also all be characterized when we you know based on the contracting structure of future awards do with a little bit but right now it’s pretty good range.
Yeah but that’s a great point.
You need to relate that to a backlog.
We’re structured for the work in progress.
So as our revenues grow through execution of these projects it’s not linear calculation as far as our overhead for that work.
So we should get some additional leverage out of that.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And just quickly back to Joe’s question about capacity.
I guess to his point I just wanted to understand.
So we obviously just had one – the additional REFICAR you’re doing.
That’s three seed works on LNG projects that could get FID in 2012 and that doesn’t even include potentially a (inaudible).
So I guess the question is if you were in a position to win fully BC on these awards would you have the ability to do this work at your existing facilities? Well again REFICAR we’re well on our way.
There’s 2 000 people currently on site and over 2 000 we’ve got nearly 300 people or plan to have 300 in our fabrication facility in Texas.
We hired over 700 new engineers in Texas for that work.
By the way we’re also ramping up for the engineering work to start on the gas processing project that we just announced.
So that’s all of their plan.
We don’t see any constraints or issues with mobilization on that.
I think what we have to realize is ramping up in mobilizing for these big construction job is something we do is something we’ve done for decades.
And it’s a very very large jobs.
In fact we’re doing in Australia at a place that we know the workforce we’ve been there for a long time.
We have a lot of regional support if you will on in terms of infrastructure but direct labor.
I mean that’s what we had to demonstrate to Chevron before obviously we were actually successful there so.
It’s not an easy task but certainly one that we’re well equipped to deal with.
So it’s – when you talk about the feed work in for Yamal.
Again if you look at engineering there’s only three places in the world for liquefaction you probably want to go.
It’s probably Yokohama in London and Huston.
We got joint venture partners for both Yamal and (Browse).
So again there’s a sharing of those resources and we fully realized that above a certain level and above certain size it compels us to go out and look for joint venture partners that are reliable and can handle part of the scope of the work as we’ve done with Kentz certainly in Gorgon and certainly as we done with (clubs) on Papua New Guinea as we are doing with (inaudible) and Shipham for both Browse and Yamal.
So that’s our answer to the resource issue but it’s going to be a certainly a challenge when you look at all the workout there.
If you look at the 100s of billions of dollars that are being spent in LNG and related work and then the number of firms like ours in the world it’s you know it’s not a infinite number.
So the challenging cycle – challenges cycle work..
It’s a high-class problem to have.
Yeah you’re right.
Thank you.
That’s a great way to say it.
Right.
And last question I have and I’ll get back in queue.
Just in terms of capital allocation obviously you continued to buyback stock instead of dividend.
What are you seeing you think anything different in the acquisition market not so much just on pricing and what’s out there within the you know in terms of what you’re looking at end markets geographies etcetera? We have talked about this we think the best investment is obviously still in the growth of our company although we have certainly got some great returns for our shareholders on the share buyback.
But we look at opportunities out there again our best experience has been with those acquisitions where we can call that assets we can add assets to our existing workforce that are complementary to our model.
And that would be the preferred approach.
So we are looking for that and we think you know a company that certainly has the right profile working in similar areas may have the kind of skill sets that would fill some of the geographic gaps that we see in our business would be interesting to us.
But right now we think you know how we’re deploying our capital and using our capital right now and our conservative approach on our debt is a good place to be and gives a flexibility to address these opportunities when they occur.
Ron do you want to add anything to that.
No.
I think that’s right.
We certainly look at our liquidity and keep it very precious I think we are always evaluating to make sure we now have enough dry powder between our cash balance in our debt to a take advantage of an opportunity that comes up so we look at that all the time.
And then certainly beyond that for the right transaction we go to the equity markets but you know that’s after we would first choice is cash second choice is debt probably get up to comfortably at 25% debt of total cap rate before we would have to do some on the equity side.
So if you did that map today its about $500 million.
The first $500 million would come from most sites and then after that we would have to do for the right deal go to our shareholders.
Great well thanks to response and again congratulations on the great quarter.
Thanks Rob.
Our next question is from line of John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson please go ahead with our question.
Hi good afternoon.
Phil just relative to the $10 billion in backlog and you guys touched on this a little bit but in terms of the ramp of the work that we’re looking at now and I realize there is hopefully more yet to come.
But are we looking at fully utilization or hitting maximum in terms of your burn rate in 2013 2014.
I mean if you got visibility to a ramp in 2012 2013 and 2014 now or does it step up?  Well we will have.
I mean that’s a very important question because you know we’re going to need we have to do a good job obviously of analyzing and communicating exactly what you are saying because the backlog besides of this $10 billion backlog and relationship to revenue and new burn relationships is going to be very important to understand that how models going to work.
But yeah we look at those curves and the exciting thing about these curves is because we’ve got some rare reasons to backlog that we have been ramping up.
And then when you start looking all of these the characteristics of these projects and awarding all construction so we have to start getting there in terms of revenue faster but still lot of engineering work we have got to do on along these jobs of course the tank work is pretty quick in terms of getting to the field and generating revenues there.
So they’ve all got different kind of characteristics but the long duration backlog these are several year projects and so once we hit the top of that curve latest curve I think we are going to enjoy a pretty good period of stability when you combine all these backlog going out to the ‘12 and ‘13 certainly.
And John mostly like you saw in Peru and saw the announcement on Gorgon the trains are four year plus type of contracts so it will be a new step that comfort going out for the next 3 or 4 years with this kind of backlog.
And Ron I guess are we going to see an immediate in 2012 or some point here a big search in cash then because you guys do pretty job by getting the cash upfront.
But you also mentioned that 60-40 split now cost plus to fixed price?  I certainly do like the cash opportunities but with reimbursable work we’re not quite as beneficial as a lump sum project.
So we’ll certainly generate a lot of cash but you should look for big down payments on these reimbursable jobs.
Okay.
And then… It still be cash positive they’re just based on the characteristics of those big front end payment.
But as Ron love to say about non work – these reimbursable jobs John I mean they have got the we’ll make sure that we’re cash positive inline with the old requirements so we were counting on that.
So we’re going to stay ahead of the curve hopefully on firstly all this work.
So you will start seeing that flushing out in terms of cash as these jobs develop.
Okay.
And just lastly are we end in environment yet where you’re seeing owners scramble a little bit to place orders and go out further or is it still –? I haven’t seen that John I mean these are long cycle John even though we get to Gorgon I won’t take how long we’ve been working on that you know because that’s a huge development and even though if 2.3 billion you know there is a lot of other work going on around by their people so and these are huge developments.
So I don’t think the owners feel compelled to scramble.
I think the owners that we dealt with they’ve got the long history of how they work with contractors on a long term basis certainly with the advance of our technology upfront.
So I wouldn’t characterize the scramble all I think these are part of their long term plans and we’re fortunate that we’ve had such good relationships with them.
We can plan for that as well.
So I don’t think we’ve seen the scramble at all.
Okay great.
Thanks and congratulations.
Thanks John  And we have time for one last question and that question is from the line of Martin Malloy from Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead with your question.
Congratulations on the quarter.
Thanks.
When we look at your new award guidance and the top end the range you gave us $7.2 billion you’ve announced in the first half of this year the new work tools are about $5 billion.
Are there any larger awards out there that put my results in potential upside to revise new awards? Well I mean we still got to get to that range that we just said Malloy that’s still lot of work it’s for the back half of the year.
Clearly that would have to incorporate not only the small which we’ve talked about as part of our $2 billion or so run rate each year but we still see some opportunities out there Gorgon arguably is certainly the largest of what we had forecast for this year.
But certainly we see some pretty healthy opportunities still this year it’s again I think we’re well positioned timing is always the challenge for us.
And you mentioned moving from the planning to the engineering phase on several projects related to gas processing NGO production coming out of the shale.
Can you talk a little bit about when these projects might be awarded? That actually that’s what I meant is that we have now begun to see some awards and technology on these issue with the gas plant.
But we’re at the engineering phase right and so in some cases customers want to complete FEED package and then go to the second step and commit for the full project.
So talking about the previous question about was the customers are rushing out I would say the customers are still very deliberate and they’re going through their gate processes.
And now they’re really at point where many of them are at the engineering gate as opposed to the planning gate some of them are making full releases but most of them will go through some engineering and estimating and then after the FEED is done release the full EPC project in 2012.
Is it the timeline for FEED on one of these gas processing plants is normally around a six month process?  I would say that – that can actually for gas plants could be little bit shorter than that.
For Olefins plants it’s about six to eight months.
Thank you.
You’re welcome Joe.
I think I’ll let you know that we’re going to continue the questions if you have more more people in the queue.
Absolutely sir.
Our next question is from the line of Chase Jacobson with William Blair please go ahead with your question.
Hello Chase.
Hi good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Just a two quick things you know you mentioned that you’ve been working on the Gorgon project for you know quite sometime trying to get that into backlog you know obviously there are some other nice awards that you had.
And you kind of touched on this but I’m just trying to figure out you know where the biggest difference was in your new awards guidance compared to last quarter because you know it’s pretty big move in three months or is it one region in particular or is it one market in particular? So I think we’ve talked about certainly during our last call and certainly and at other meetings we’ve had.
But I need to way to look at this you know when we talked about how we put together our new award forecast and where we look at larger opportunities we never wanted to be overly dependant on any one particularly region any one particular end market or certainly one customer.
So we do a certain amount of factoring and we talked in the first quarter that we started out with the funnel of somewhere in the neighborhood of I think it was $37 million and talked through the process of how that gets adopt to our guidance.
So if you assume the probabilities and the factoring in that process.
Clearly you know its certainly addresses making sure that we can stay within the range let’s say we don’t want to provide too much risk on the downside.
But if the large jobs like Gorgon is to be awarded there is clearly more upside.
And so that’s why we said that the first quarter you know we had certainly some confidence hopefully we’ll be able to get these projects to the finish line and even if we haven’t by this earnings call we should be in a position to at least express confidence or updates on where we saw the year should land.
Its somewhat unusual to our history because of the timing these new awards tend to be either front or backend loaded so having these concluded at mid point year was helpful for us for our planning certainly I think for you as well.
So that’s why you saw the big swing because we were successful and of course we did enjoy the upside against our original guidance.
And so I hope that explains somewhat.
And then can you just talk a little bit about what CB&amp;I is doing to improve the competitive position of the company given that there is still some capacity in the market whether it’s you know more partnerships or you know adding engineering capacity in lower cost region.
And then maybe just how you view the business you know where you view your standpoint as in the marketplace compared to several years ago?  I think we’ve been very fortunate that we’ve been agile we’ve been able to grow and adjust to the changing market conditions which if you look over the past five or so years has shifted from regions has shifted from end markets you know just taking the shale gas questions that we’ve had that wasn’t even a known factor or variable in our plan about two years ago or so.
Then when you look at the other potential that just abundance of the gas in this country is going to shape the opportunities for us in next three years you know you just need that kind of a journey I have to say one of the real competitive advantage we’ve had as a company is we’ve been able to grow and to shift capitalizing our international experience capitalizing on our focus on various specific end markets and also how we’ve been able to again focus in our sectors and really take the talent pool that we have in our company and apply them against these LNG refinery and offshore and again the uniqueness of our model.
I have to say in a very short replay that’s how what I see our competitor advantage.
And I think you take that model as very scalable in what we see in terms of the opportunities around the world.
All right thanks.
All right Chase And our next question is from line of Richard Roy from Citi please go ahead with your question.
Hi Richard Hi this is actually Scott Shireen for Richard.
Okay.
I wanted to ask you question I know you just touched on it regarding that $37 billion to 40 billion range of addressable opportunities.
Can you provide any more color on the geographic breakdown of that opportunity set?  Well I can’t I think if you just listed where the opportunities are you have to put whether the end market or geography is.
LNG of Australia is got to be the top of list from just the general backlog and the value of work over there and then Asia-Pacific when you are started incorporating technology and that will include in your – kind of in that regional map for technology.
And I think when you look out in the last years certainly you got to include now starting to think about North America not only in terms of the oil sands opportunity that we are currently involved.
But again as Dan and Lasse talked about the gas processing opportunities in Petrochemical and perhaps in LNG export opportunities going forward.
Any indication I know you said you have about 20% of revenues in the US any expectation of how that might increase over the next several years? I can’t tell you that specifically but we think it could be significant in terms of the overall distribution.
It’s a little bit difficult to gauge that now because our international markets are so strong.
But we are very encouraged and planning for certainly an increase in business over the next three to five years certainly in all those areas.
Great.
Thank you very much.
All right.
Thank you.
And our next question is from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hello Steve.
Good afternoon.
Just a follow up on the timing of the Kearl expansion do you need to have final approval of the projects by the customer in order to get your award or is there is some scope of the contract you get prior to their formal sanctioning? Well as you recall last year we reported that as limited releases for a variety of reasons that the owner of one or two awards to scope as the work progressed and that was fine.
I think now what we are looking at expansion we are looking at some replication if you will some cost wages I’m hopeful that we are going to be able to consolidate that under one contract.
But we have no idea we can’t confirm that yeah but certainly the work is and the plant is progressing and hopefully that expansion work should be better defined certainly by the end of the year.
Okay.
And then you mentioned in the new Gorgon contract is cost plus I assume the tanks are fixed price if it’s not confidential or proprietary can you just remind us where the labor is coming from for the tank project and then what type of labor agreement you have there? Well they’re Australian its all Australian.
Remember that the tank jobs don’t require the same level of manpower that it’s in a hundreds for these tank jobs.
The other advantage of these tank jobs is those early release type projects so we certainly have the first if you will opportunity to access labor markets also the lay down space of the materials and so forth.
So lot of good advantages to get in these tanks because they are early but as far as manpower requirements you are talking in thousands you’re talking in hundreds.
Union labor in Australia for those? Absolutely we know the work rules we’ve been dealing with that for a long long time and certainly we comply with all the labor requirements in Australia.
Okay.
Thanks for answering the questions I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Graham Mattison with Lazard Capital Markets.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi Graham.
It’s actually Matt Wilson for Graham today and I really appreciate you guys taking some extra questions it was nice of you.
Just real quickly you know I think I heard the small to mid size award number of 680 million which I believe if my memory serves me is a little larger than usual I think you might have alluded in the past to maybe that being correlated with the people moving and stepping up and moving from a planning stage you know into a like project stage it wasn’t sure if you add any color to offer on that the small and mid size number? Let me clarify that a little bit.
We’ve talked about I mean we have been awarded so many projects during the course of any one year.
And at some point we realize that we need to bundle what we saw as a run rate if you will of new awards per quarter which were all those kind of projects that we don’t issue press releases on and we set the threshold the borrowing as $40 million or below $40 million.
So that’s the engineering that small tank we’ve got technology awards that’s a lot of work that’s in that bundle if you will we’ve been seeing that typically ranges anywhere from half a billion sometimes a few billion dollars of that and so somewhere in there but usually as to release we count on about a couple of billion dollars a year or that type of work very important to us it was very important certainly when financial situation in the world the economy in the world world economy was a little shakier.
But still that’s what we count on so that’s how we characterize that kind of work so when we did when we suggest how you look at our business we guide you too if you will looking around 2 billion or so of that kind of work.
And that allows us then to spend more time talking with you on potential upside for major projects so like we have announced this very recently.
Sorry go ahead.
It’s good that like many parts of our business there is no such thing as linear number for each quarter which it is always a little bumpy.
Yeah.
Even the small ones.
Sure well thanks for that verification.
And just lastly if you had any outlook your outlook on like oil sands work in Canada for second half of the year.
And also with you know if you had some time to adjust the happenings in Japan and if you don’t have any thoughts on that for the back half of the year? Yeah.
Well the oil sands we’ve been very unfortunate to continue our work with Kearl we are over half way completed with the initial phase.
I think the owner has been very public about the expansion of plans they have and where we certainly anticipate to having to continue on Kearl for quite a long time to come.
We’ve also been worried the couple of very nice tank projects for other owners in oil sands too.
So that’s going to be a part of our mix going forward for quite a few years.
As far as Japan you know it’s important to us for a lot of reasons it’s important to us as key suppliers out there it’s important to us for partners for lot of the work.
So and it’s important to how they impact the market demands obviously and we’ve seen certainly some of the curve change relative to LNG with some of the addition from Australia some of the acceleration perhaps of some of the conversations around other LNG developments not only in Australia Russia but now Africa is becoming very important in terms of some of the place.
So we’re seeing that impact from Japan so that continues to be very important to us from that perspective.
Thank you very much guys.
Thanks.
And ladies and gentlemen we have now reached the end of the allotted time for questions and answers.
Mr.
Asherman do you have any closing comments today.
No.
I think the call probably last long enough time for everyone.
So that will conclude our call and we certainly thank everyone for their interest.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference call.
We would like thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Before beginning today’s call the company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the Company’s future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the Company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the Company’s press release and the SEC filings.
While forward-looking statements represent management’s best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining our call to review the Company’s performance for the third quarter.
With me today are Lasse Petterson CB&amp;I’s Chief Operating Officer; Dan McCarthy President of Lummus Technology and Ron Ballschmiede CB&amp;I’s Chief Financial Officer.
Following the remarks we will open the call for your questions.
Now I am going to turn the call over to the team but first I want to highlight that with nearly $4 billion in new awards this quarter and a backlog tracking just under $10 billion we have every expectation of finishing the year strong.
So as Ron will discuss soon we are raising the guidance range of earnings per share to $2.40 to $2.50 for the year and maintain our current outlook on revenue to be in the range of $4.3 billion to $4.7 billion and new awards in the range of $6.6 billion to $7.2 billion for the year.
Now I have some summary remarks after the Q&amp;A but now I’ll ask Lasse and Dan to provide the detail around the markets and operations for CB&amp;I Lummus Steel Plate Structures and Lummus Technology followed by Ron who will highlight the financial results.
So Lasse let’s begin with you.
Thank you Philip.
Good afternoon.
Great and I will begin my comments with new awards this quarter and then give a brief update on our main ongoing projects.
The third quarter awards totaled $3.8 billion which was the highest ever and that brings some backlog to exceed $9 billion.
The highlight was signing the $2.3 billion contract with Chevron for their mechanical electrical and instrumentation construction work on the Gorgon Island -- LNG project in Australia.
As you are aware we’re already working on the Barrow Island sites as the EPC contractor for the projects to LNG tanks.
The Gorgon project has three LNG trains of each producing 5 million tons per year of LNG.
The Gorgon (NYSE:<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MBI" title="MBIA Inc.">MBI</a>) contract scope of work is to receive install hook up and complete the process modules for their LNG trains.
The 270 000 tons of process modules are currently being fabricated at various yards in the region.
Construction of LNG trains has been CB&amp;I’s core business for many years throughout the world and particularly in Australia where we are currently engaged on the Pluto project and where we have previously completed Woodside’s train IV and V.
Our product management personnel in Perth is in full swing to plan and prepare for the execution of the project with their main volume of construction work to be performed in 2013 and 2014.
At peak we’ve more than 3 000 people engaged on the project; the majority of the project staff and craft will come from our current Australia organization with some additional resource coming from our deep and worldwide pool of experienced LNG project personnel.
Also this quarter we announced a $500 million EPC contract for LNG storage tanks on a separate project in Australia.
In July we were selected for the project specification contract for the Arrow LNG Liquefaction Projects in Queensland.
Arrow is a 50-50 joint venture between Shell and PetroChina and the project plans to have two trains each with a capacity of 4 million tons per annum.
Arrow recently announced that it’s considering expanding on their capacity of each train to as much as 4.6 million metric ton per year.
And let’s say that they will take the final investment decision late in 2013.
These contracts have great winds for CB&amp;I.
We’ve been on Australia for more than 75 years and these awards precision as well to continue to be Australia’s leading energy contractor and a major participant on future projects in Australia’s promising LNG resource developments such as Gorgon Browse Barrow and Yamal.
Other third quarter awards included a $60 million storage tanks contract in Saudi Arabia for their Ma’aden Bauxite and Alumina Company.
So again it was a good third quarter and with a [backload] now exceeding $9 billion we see our market’s building momentum and these awards that we have received year-to-date have certainly proven that to be the case.
Now let me provide an update on our major projects currently underway.
Through our joint venture with Chiyoda and Saipem We have two LNG projects under development in our London office for Russia where the field engineering work for the Shtokman and the Yamal projects are on a schedule for completion earlier next year.
We anticipate to continue our engagement on these projects preparing for the later execution phases thereafter.
We are also in discussions with clients in the US for reversing LNG input terminals to convert them to liquefaction export facilities.
And on the Hides gas conditioning plant in the Papua New Guinea highlands we have mobilize to the site.
The temporary camp is complete and we are scheduled to start our driving piles for the foundations next month.
In UK the engineering work for Exxon’s two platforms on the Golden Eagle field is on schedule.
We have more than 400 engineers working on this project and the London engineering operation is now upto some 950 engineers in total.
Turning to South America the REFICAR refinery projects in Cartagena Columbia is progressing well.
This quarter we received and installed several large process towers and other equipment.
We also completed the majority of the pilings nearly 14 000 in all and the cuts and the fill work on the site.
84 process modules are being built at our Island Park facility in Beaumont and the first three has been shipped to the site with another three scheduled for shipment in the next few weeks.
And our manpower at the site currently exceeds 3 700.
In the US construction is well underway on the 200 million static cubic foot gas processing plant at Occidental Elk Hills field in California.
Equipment loads are arriving daily at the site and we’ve several hundred constructional workers at the site presently.
We’re also building at 200 million static cubic feet gas processing plant for Dominion in West Virginia.
The plant will process new shale gas production from the Marcellus field.
CB&amp;I are providing the process technology for the plant.
We’re executing the EPC process work and we’re delivering the plant storage vessels.
We’ve mobilized to the sites and have started the civil works.
In Canada the Kearl oil sands projects continue to make steady progress.
All of the six FSU vessels are installed and the primary separation vessel and the storage tanks are also complete.
However our client has experienced some permitting challenges for transportation of client supplied equipment modules through Idaho and Montana.
In the Middle East we are working on numerous steel plate structure projects.
One of our larger projects is the GASCO LPG project in Abu Dhabi where we are constructing eight storage tanks six cryogenic tanks and two NAFTA storage tanks and that’s with including the associated piping electrical and instrumentation systems.
The project is ahead of schedule with construction of all tanks ongoing at various stages of completion.
We are also executing two separate storage tank projects 90 tanks in total as part of Takreer’s refinery expansion project in Abu Dhabi.
Construction and fabrication is well underway and the projects are scheduled to be completed in 2012.
I close by saying that our end markets are continuing to gain momentum and that's evidenced by the recent awards.
We’re well positioned to capitalize on this positive development.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
I’m pleased to report a strong quarter for Lummus Technologies.
Our new awards for the quarter exceeded a $173 million reflecting exceptional licensing and catalyst orders over this period.
Let me elaborate on some of the more significant awards.
In Russia a subsidiary of Rosneft awarded us an olefins project to be built in [Hatchka] on Russia’s furthermost southeastern point on the Sea of Japan.
In addition to ethylene we will also be providing a butadiene extraction unit and some hydrogenation units.
This facility will have the capacity to produce 2.25 million tons of olefins and diolefins making it the world’s largest liquid cracker.
We have booked the license and basic engineering services associated with this project.
The supply of the ethylene heaters has not yet been negotiated.
Another large contract of the catalyst supply order for Pemex which is building a number of gasoline hydrodesulphurization units based on our CDTECH process.
This is first of two orders; we expect the other should be placed some time next year.
In addition to these large projects I would also like to cover two strategic awards booked in the quarter.
Our Refining Group sold the first license for its new gasoline alkylation process called CDAlky.
This technology utilizes an innovative proprietary reactor time to improve the efficiency of sulfuric acid alkylation.
This process produces higher octane product with significantly lower sulfuric acid consumption so it’s less expensive than the conventional technology we should make it appealing to clients.
This plant will be built in China where new gasoline regulations are creating demand for additional alkylation capacity to produce cleaner burning gasoline.
Another process licensing breakthrough was a license of Diphenyl Carbonate technology an intermediate for polycarbonate production.
This is our first license of this technology which provides a more environmental friendly route to polycarbonate.
Polycarbonate is a virtual class that’s for variety of applications from automobile parts to eyeglasses lenses.
During the third quarter we kicked off an olefins expansion project in the United States which is a positive sign the U.S.
ethylene capacity will continue to ramp up as a result of shale gas development.
Importantly the rest of the world is also investing in traditional ethylene.
The Rosneft project mentioned earlier is one example.
Another is a confidential international ethylene expansion project we also launched this quarter.
Let me take a moment to also address the refining market.
Although North American and European refiners continue to struggle with margin issues Asia enjoys growing demand resulting in increasing investments especially in hydro processing.
Our CLG joint venture has enjoyed very solid year-on-year growth and new awards for both catalyst sales and new plant licenses.
To-date economic uncertainties such as Euro Zone have not had any official impact on our proposal activities.
Companies continue to proceed rapidly with project developments and as seen by our strong third quarter bookings clients are prepared to move forward with their projects.
In conclusion our offices are fully loaded with new design work.
We see this workload continuing for the foreseeable future so we’re increasing staff especially in India.
The quarter saw significant increases and income from operations compared to the previous quarter.
This is attributable to progress made on jobs carrying significant licensees.
We believe the solid days of works will enable us to hit our income target.
Thank you.
Thank you Dan.
Ron lets review the numbers.
Thanks Phil and good afternoon everyone.
With that overview of our sector significant activities and markets around the world let me take you through our strong financial performance for the quarter.
Revenue for the third quarter was $1.255 billion up 38% from $909 million in the third quarter of 2010.
The year-over-year revenue increase was consistent with our expectations.
The revenue increase reflects the increasing activity of our backlog as our major projects move further into the construction phase of the work scope.
We expect fourth quarter 2011 revenues to be essentially consistent with the third quarter level and consequently approximate the middle of our reaffirmed full year 2011 revenue guidance of $4.3 billion to $4.7 billion.
We expect our record level of backlog and the opportunities in our global marketplace to generate significant revenue growth in 2012 and beyond.
Our gross profit for the quarter was a solid $147 million compared to $120 million for the 2010 quarter.
Each of our sectors enjoyed significant revenue growth and each reported higher operating income.
As we have been discussing we have seen a mix of our backlog shift from fixed price to more cost reimbursable over the past several years.
At the beginning of the quarter the backlog mix was a little less than 40% cost reimbursable.
With a major Gorgon MEI and other cost reimbursable awards the cost reimbursable backlog now exceeds 50% at the end of the third quarter.
The second of the expected changes is the relative revenue volume mix of our three sectors.
Each of our sectors enjoyed third quarter revenue growth of over 25%.
However the relative weighting of the dollar amount of that growth has a significant effect on our consolidated margin percentages.
Specifically over 90% of our third quarter year-over-year revenue growth of almost $350 million came from the combination of Steel Plate Structures and CB&amp;I Lummus as our large projects accelerated progress.
Certainly the impact of this growth is positive for our consolidated earnings.
We continue to believe that the mix of our revenues and contract terms will generate consolidated gross profits in the 10.5% to 12.5% range which we’ve discussed previously.
However we continue to believe that given the ever changing revenue mix and the different sector operating characteristic analyzing performance at the sector level provides a better understanding of our performance.
Consequently I’ll come back and discuss changes in our revenues and operating income by business sectors in a moment.
Moving on to our income statement Selling and Administrative expenses remained well controlled at $49.7 million or 4% of revenues for the quarter.
The increase of $6.4 million over 2010 reflect the acquisition of the remaining 50% ownership of CD Tech at the end of last year higher business development costs and global inflation in the low single digits.
The lower equity earnings for the quarter and year-to-date period are also due to consolidation of CD Tech.
We do expect to continue improving the equity income line driven by the improved of global refining activities which Dan spoke to earlier.
Third quarter operating income totaled $92.7 million the second best quarterly operating income in our history.
Importantly over the trailing three-year period our operating margin has been in the 6% to 9% range and has averaged 7.6% of revenues reflecting the quality and solid execution of our backlog and the unique combination of our business units.
Our tax rate for the quarter was 24% and 27.3% year-to-date reflecting a continued favorable geographic mix of our pre-tax income and a net favorable resolution of certain tax positions in the quarter.
The resolution on these tax uncertainties reduced our third-quarter tax expense by $3.9 million or just under $0.04 per share.
In addition we have been accruing interest expense on these issues and with the resolution of the risk the interest accrual was also reversed resulting in a pre-tax reduction of interest expense in the quarter of $2.4 million or a bit less than $0.02 per share.
The combination of the reduction of tax expense and interest expense improved our third quarter -- improved our quarter net income by between $0.05 and $0.06 per share.
We expect our full year tax rate to approximate our 2011 year-to-date rate of 27.3% plus or minus a point or two depending on the final mix of global income.
The summation of all these results in third quarter net income of $72 million are strongest quarter ever or $0.72 per diluted shares.
EBITDA totaled a $110 million for the third quarter and $308 million year-to-date compared to $95 million and $273 million respectively in 2010.
Our earnings to date and our confidence in the quality of our backlog have allowed us to increase the range of our earnings per share guidance.
As we indicated in our press release our revised 2011 EPS guidance is $2.40 to $2.50.
Lasse and Dan spoke to our new awards and prospect activity so I will provide some overall comments.
New awards for the third quarter totaled $3.8 billion and year-to-date new awards are $6 billion.
We announced several large new awards during the quarter which totaled just short of $3 billion.
The approximate $800 million remaining balance for the quarter reflect project growth and smaller new awards which were nicely spread between our sectors and project types around the world.
Our new awards for the first nine months and the prospectus for the balance the year enabled us to maintaining our full year 2011 New Award guidance of 6.8 billion to $7.2 billion.
Our backlog totaled 9.3 million at the end of the third quarter compared to 6.9 billion at the beginning of the year.
While we have had no significant project cancellations the third quarter strengthening of the US dollar against major global currencies specifically the Australian Columbian Canadian and Euro currencies reduced our backlog by approximately $500 million for the quarter.
While the income effect of this currency is minimal going forward the currency impact is an important metrics to understand our backlog movements period-to-period.
Now let me take you through the sector’s Q3 results.
Each four sector’s 2011 results were within our expected annual range of operating results which we have discussed previously.
Specifically our performance expectations our operating income in the range of 7% to 10% specifically Structures 3% to 6% at CB&amp;I Lummus and an annual operating income for Lummus Technology of $100 million plus or minus 10%.
Steel Plate Structures reported third quarter 2011 revenue of $511 million compared $349 million in 2010.
The increase of $162 million is attributable to the increased activity on our large state projects in the Middle East and Australia.
Operating income totaled $43 million compared to $32 million in 2010.
The slight decline in operating margin to 8.5% of revenues for the quarter reflect the impact of a lower margin project mix during the quarter higher pre-contract expenses and higher business development costs attributable to our robust funnel of opportunities and finally cost associated with the re-alignment of facilities in the United States.
CB&amp;I Lummus revenues totaled $630 million in 2011 an increase of $159 million from $471 million in 2010.
The higher revenues reflect increased activity on our large projects in Columbia Papua New Guinea Canada and the two gas processing plants in the United States.
These increases were partially offset by the winding down and successful completion of our large LNG projects throughout the world.
Income from operations totaled $23 million compared to $20 million in 2010.
Our third quarter 2011 results generally benefited from higher revenue volume and better cost recoveries from increased engineering activities but were re-impacted by a lower margin project mix and similar to steel plates higher pre-contract and business development costs.
CB&amp;I Lummus also incurred cost in the quarter associated with the realignment facilities in the United States.
Finally our Lummus Technology sector had a strong quarter; revenues totaled $114 million.
The increase was driven by the consolidation and subsequent growth in the CD Tech business and increases in petrochemical related revenues.
Operating income increased to $27 million up from $26 million in the comparable quarter of 2010 and up from an average run rate in the first half of 2011 of $20 million per quarter.
Dan previously mentioned the relative strength for the petrochemical market demand around the globe and a signs of an improving refining market.
Now let me make a few comments on our balance sheet cash flow and other financial matters as we have many positive developments in the quarter.
Our balance sheet and liquidity remained strong with the cash balance of $540 million up from $376 million at the beginning of the quarter.
This reflects our strong 2011 operating performance.
We continue to have no revolver borrowings and net cash of debt of $460 million at a debt-to-capital ratio of 6%.
During the quarter in the first 9 months of the year we returned $16 million and $115 million to our shareholders through cash dividends and a repurchase of shares.
Our year-to-date capital expenditure is over $24 million dollars and we expect full-year capital expenditures to be in the range of $40 million.
Year-to-date operating free cash flow totaled $196 million compared to $127 million in the comparable period of 2010.
In closing our strong backlog prospects and financial position provides us a necessary financial flexibility to continue to grow our company of providing strong returns to our shareholders.
Phil Thank you Ron.
Now we will open the call for your questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Joe Ritchie of Goldman Sachs So first question really on I want to touch on the steel plate structure margins.
I know that you know Ron you talked a little bit about the higher business development cost this quarter and also the realignment of a facility in the US but these are the lowest margins we have seen in this business since really the 2009 timeframe.
So maybe you can kind of walk us through this was there anything that as we kind of look forward over the next call it 6 or 12 months where we could expect margins to get back to the call it you know 9% to 10% range.
You know I think the range the 7 to 10 is the one you should continue to look forward.
We’ve enjoyed a mix of contracts that kept us up on top of that for quite a while.
But certainly in the quarter between steel plate structure and the CBI Lummus we incurred about $6 million of facility consolidation cost.
So that certainly had a bit of drain on it.
And the balance is just the mix of projects that we’ve in our backlog at this point in time.
Okay but the 6 million should be a net benefit going forward if I am thinking about this correctly and then potentially is there going to be a drag once you start to see the Gorgon project start to ramp up because it’s cost reimbursable? Now we’ve a backlog mix right now that should keep us close to where we’re reporting and the facility moves I talked about are finished and done and you are right we should enjoy some further returns you know on a leaner meaner shift here.
And Joe let me just remind to0 that Gorgon job is primarily labor-base revenue on rates and on reimbursement basis.
So we don’t think that will create much dilution but as far as the year-over-year performance if you look at the absolute number from income from operations on steel plate structure you know going with from 32 to 43.
You know it’s pretty good pace and we certainly hope to keep that pace going forward.
I guess moving on to the awards obviously a great quarter a record awards quarter.
You know as we kind of look over the next 12 months and you know I guess specifically in Australia there is a lot of projects that have moved forward.
There is a couple of projects that are expected to move forward at the end of this year is there a $1 billion to $2 billion project that or potential work that you could be bidding for over the next call it 12 to 18 months in that region? Well without getting specifically into the projects I think we've talked about this in previous calls we certainly anticipate not just in Australia but looking at the gas processing work in the United States the existing backlog and a potential for existing expansion of those projects.
We certainly would anticipate another expansion and then the oil sands for Kearl either by the end of this year or certainly early in the first part of next year and with Australia the big news would be converting to some of those big FEED studies like Browse into EPC work but whether that will occur late in the year or in early ‘13 is still a question mark.
But again when you look out in the next two to three years it looks very promising for all those end markets.
Okay I guess and lastly one last question on the singles and doubles it looks like you had another solid quarter what's the right runrate going forward you know in the past you mentioned $400 million to $600 million you are continually beating that over the last few quarters so just out of curiosity is that shifted up.
You know I would still just from a guidance standpoint just how to understand the new awards flow I stick with the $2 billion to $2.5 billion a year.
That could vary from quarter to quarter as you could see it’s a pretty lumpy number but I think year-over-year I would stay in that $2 billion to $2.5 billion until we give you another indication as far as just how you see us.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Cook of Credit Suisse.
A couple of quick questions one Ron or Phil I am trying to just understand the guidance for the fourth quarter.
I mean I think the fourth quarter EPS guidance implies I don’t know anywhere from $0.55 to $0.66 for the fourth quarter.
So I am just trying to figure why what we would drive the step function down in earnings you know to levels that would be sort in the first half given the ramp that you have seen and you know talk about the $6 million in facility consolidation cost going away.
So I am just trying to understand the level of conservatism in your guidance and then my second question can you the business development costs in steel plate structures in Lummus is there any way you can quantify how big they were and then sort of how soon you think those project specifically with that you know would we see a award fairly in the near term you know based on those development costs? I think the business development costs that impacts the gross margin especially in steel plate structure came on the yields is already expended if you will on projects like Gorgon specifically where we had to commit early very large groups of people to produce the kind of information we needed for that size of project.
And that was fairly unique I think in our history.
When we look forward into next year and beyond we don’t necessarily see that level of expenditure for business development cost but keep in mind the steel plate structure particularly that is all usable work if you will.
We probably spend more in precontract costs in steel plate structure than our competition simply because we didn’t get off the mark a lot quicker in terms of available drawings and planning that we have available to the team.
So we typically spend more money.
This was just a reflection certainly of some very large projects particularly Gorgon where we just had spent more money than we normally do on pre-contract costs.
Would margins have been more comparable to what we saw in the first half of the year in both segments if we adjust it for the costs now? Yeah I think that will be a fair comment I mean probably if we sliced out like two or three years and look at those comparisons again we might see that this year is somewhat unique.
Okay.
And then Ron sorry I had to ask a guidance question.
That’s right that’s okay.
Q4 Q4.
Q4; quite a stepped out function in earnings? Well one of the reasons I told you about $0.06 is because those are obviously a one-time event that we didn’t anticipate in the quarter or $0.05 or $0.06 between our taxes and the related interest on it.
So as we look in the fourth quarter we think it will look a little bit like the third quarter.
Because we’re moving into more of a cost reimbursable people oriented service business in some of our large jobs we do have a little bit of seasonality probably for the first time that it’s noticeable where you know a lot of those big projects diminish our activity right around the holiday.
So that will have a little bit of impact on the revenue burned but also in the third quarter we had some great revenues coming from finishing up on projects where we had I would call it turnaround but certainly pick a little amount of manning to finish the projects and turn it over to the clients and that had another couple of projects.
So third quarter revenue was up a bit more than we expect; the fourth quarter revenue will still have nice year-over-year growth but not the same way as we had in the third.
Yeah the other way I think I look at it to Jamie is we’re just as conservative this quarter as we were last quarter and when you recount for the additional positive impact that we got from the tax adjustments if you will we just thought it would be the right thing to do to adjust our outlooks and account for that extra nickel if you were on your guidance.
But we are pretty much set on the guidance that we gave before with that tax adjustment and just want to try and keep expectations inline with how we see the business unfolding for the rest of the year.
Well yeah I guess too on the Lummus Technology are we still targeting plus or minus 10% around the $100 million because that also… I would forget the plus or minus Dan is going for $100 million and I think he is going to deliver.
All right I would look forward to it nicely in next quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Andy Kaplowitz of Barclays Capital.
Phil if I can press you a bit more on for the backlog outlook; maybe you’re sort of a victim of your own success.
You have this huge backlog now and you know we all want more of course and as we look over the next year I know Joe asked about this little bit it’s a little pain to us in North America for instance and you know the LNG products are out there but they kind of seem like may be two years from now.
So how do you look at ‘12 if you can help us at all with how to look at ‘12 versus backlog? Well if you just look at the backlog lets just take this year as an example one case could be may that pressure on backlog release the rate of burn as well as some of the pressure that we saw on revenue resulted perhaps slower than burn rate of some of these major projects like Papua New Guinea and those type of things.
But in actuality that wasn’t the case probably more so as we had anticipated at the beginning of the year some expansion awards and a couple of other new awards that’s slated towards the back-end of this year.
So while we are pretty confident that that will happen and it certainly had an impact on how you evaluated the burn rate this year and which probably made you looking into next year even more as you say baked in at.
But it’s a lot to do with the mix.
For example if you look at Papua New Guinea engineering is pretty much completed but it that was a long way.
But obviously they’ve got some owner issues that they have to get resolved to really to have that project crank up to get the high value progress if you will for that revenue.
As Ron was saying we’ve got Gorgon which is heavily constituted just on labor.
So that’s got a different kind of curve.
But the $10 million mark you know I think that’s going to be a pretty good bogey for us going into 2012.
I think we’ve got enough if you will new projects kind of fill the backlog where $10 million hopefully becomes more than new normal.
Plus as Ron described in his comments too we would probably be at $10 billion or $11 billion for some FX adjustments certainly in the currency.
But we’re going to give you some more visibility before the end of the year and for next year’s backlog but I think it looks pretty good to us as far as maintaining the least of that high water mark.
So you kind of answered two questions in one and it kind of wasn’t my second question about revenue burn as we go forward.
I mean Ron mentioned that this quarter looked pretty good based on some projects ending.
But Ron is it fair to say that you know we had those issues with revenue burn a year ago.
We shouldn’t have as many issues as we go in ‘12 and ’13 you know with these large projects or do you worry about sort of slow burn as we go forward?  I don’t worry about slow burn but you do have to just to appreciate the duration of some of these projects.
You know lots I mentioned for instance the Gorgon having lowered its 2013 and ’14.
So these are long jobs and we’re not going to have the olden metrics of two-thirds of our backlog burns in the next year.
It will likely be less than 50% just when you take jobs like the size of Gorgon and accept where you have a four-year burn.
But that's not bad; it certainly gives us ability to balance our workloads and plan it out pretty well.
And I think the slow burn also equates to the highest earnings that we've seen in the history of our company and you know slow burn is necessarily all a negative thing.
So it’s really just a matter of anticipating and forecasting the rate of revenue for next year and so we feel pretty confident of what it looks like.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Levine of JPMorgan.
A question on Australia so obviously the kind of work you guys are winning and see down there and you know at various stages on various projects how should we think about given the tightness in the market down there and the amount of activity; how do you get comfort around being able to deliver on projects in that environment and how should we also think about any impact that might have on feeds as they flow through or maybe new feeds being awarded given the fact that we still maybe a year out from some of these jobs like Browse and Arrow being sanctioned? That’s a pretty large question but I’ll try to piece it up.
I mean you know clearly there's a lot of different things that we do in Australia in the LNG market with the tanks and jobs like Gorgon and in the Papua New Guinea but if you look at the primary ways that we look at how we’re going to mitigate that labor risk which I think is a core of your question there is a few things I want to mention.
The first choice above all is we are going to hire Australia -- where we look at Australian every aspect of our business and that would be our first choice.
But obviously when you look at all the development in Australia certainly you’ve got to look where this labor is going to come from both from a project standpoint -- primarily from a direct labor standpoint and certainly project supervision.
One way we used to offset and mitigate that risk obviously is collaboration.
Our major joint ventures the Browse theme work when that converts to EPC where we’ve got our joint venture with Chiyoda and Saipem certainly offsets and mitigates some of that risks.
We’ve got a joint venture with Kentz on Gorgon where they are going to be having the majority of all mechanical -- the electrical and instrumentation insulation and then when our joint venture with [Kearl] on Papua New Guinea with a half -- 35% of that responsibility if you will.
The second – the next item is all the modularization there are very few if any major developments begin conceived or being built in Australia now that isn’t considering modules as a primary execution method and these major modules are coming from very place in Asia.
So it’s not only just the labor issues and the management of those issues in Australia but also the co-ordination and management of the fabrication yards that we’re going to be contract with throughout Asia.
And then third item I think when you look at mitigating that risks it was just on productivity and good recruitment.
We’re going to be recruiting from talent pools all over the region including India Philippines on locations that meet the requirements of our Visa Blocks 457 blocks where we’ll be getting Australia which allows us to bring in labor that meets certain qualifications.
Now I guess the old school of thinking was that you go and set up recruitment officers in each one of those key locations around the area.
You look at bringing in as many people as you can from the old company but we have seen a tremendous amount of power come out of using the social network in our staffing and recruiting efforts here.
We have a as you know part of our company called Lutech is a staffing and recruitment company that we use to staff many more jobs around the world.
We are cutting contact with talent pools throughout all these locations where there have been skilled craftsmen trained in the Middle-East and other parts of the world for decades actually that we can connect now through social media where we might get 75 000 hits if you will in one recruiting effort and when you boil that down to qualified workers it’s changed the whole complexion of how we resource and recruit labor from around the world.
So as you hear our important questions for us (inaudible) labor to the point but that’s kind of thinking we were going through Australia.
Yeah.
Now that’s really helpful.
One follow-up on cash flow deployment here obviously cash balance starting to come back up.
Any new thoughts with regard to M&amp;A? Are you considering buyback and dividends what are your thoughts on all of the above there? Yes I mean we’ve talked about cash is building is doing up quite well.
Your balance sheet is very healthy.
Obviously it gives a lot of flexibility.
Ron has told you I have told you the priority for our cash flow is to grow our company number one as the best return to our shareholders and also that makes us flexible enough to address any acquisitions or other internal investments we really want to pursue.
And one last one if I may on the CapEx looks like that budget is coming down a little bit for this year? Is there a reason for that? Was that coming from a further rate? No I think it’s just the timing of when we need the projects completed and when we need in some cases the equipment delivered through our job sites.
We are trying to time that all well perfectly.
Your next question comes from the line of John Rogers of D.
A.
Davidson.
I just want to go into the margins a little bit more if we could.
Even the back log is 50% cost plus how does that affect the volatility of margins potentially going forward.
Does it reduce it substantially or are there incentives in there that can distort -- I don’t know project margins just how shall I think about that? You know while we have incentives – half added incentives on some projects so it not a big factor in our variability.
I think what you are seeing come out of our organization in the last three years this -- it stayed in a pretty narrow bend with operating income 6 to 9 is what we have worked very hard to achieve and we want to keep it there.
Certainly that has helped by Lummus’ technology and it’s license -- high margin license business together with its catalyst business and then a nice make of trying to make sure that we can manage the risks for lump sum work and where it becomes more illogical take the lower risk and lower margin correctly -- cost for reimbursable side.
So I’ll think you will see us continue to do what we’ve done for the last 12 quarters now.
I mean there is variables there John as you all know and Ron alluded to so it would will be in a higher concentration of labor generated revenues going forward.
But that’s a point in time I mean if you convert one of these big LNG liquefaction trains for example at the end of ’12 then that will curb changes.
But they have different characteristics.
That certainly would be a variable in terms of how we see it going forward.
Good absolute factor may not but it’s still generating more and more earnings of volume because we’re staying within that band as Ron described.
And that’s great point I think we’re going to try and make sure we focus on that consistent earnings and when you listen to how we focus on cost below their gross profit line whether that’s S&amp;A or taxes or interest expense we want that gross profit line remain variable and then continuous control of those other costs and that’s what we’ve had some luck doing and would plan on continuing.
So I mean we should then see the variability of margins stay narrow I guess this is the point?  I think that’s a fair comment.
Again we’ve not got overly enthusiastic about penning that that range that we’ve given you for margins and the way we see our mix in our business I would still see within that range that Ron has provided you.
Okay.
And then just lastly and then Ron you mentioned seasonality in some of the effects of that but given the mix of work in the southern hemisphere I mean isn’t that somewhat of an offset or….? Yeah.
You will see seasonality from a profitability standpoint.
You will see a little bit from a revenue standpoint.
Another worth perfect example your cost reimbursable work with some holidays.
Will you set margin percentages it’s just a velocity on which that revenue flows through our income statement.
Yeah that question was related not to profitability but I think to the burn rate that we saw for next year.
And again it’s just reflected changing of the mix at least for what we see right now.
And as you might guess one of our project is somewhere that’s very cold in the winter.
So that will slow down a little bit by design and per our plan.
So the combination of those things probably you will see a little bit of it in the revenue burn in the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Fisher of UBS.
I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about what you are hearing about any financing risk to projects in the marketplace and I guess where within your typical customer mix does there tend to be more of a reliance on kind of major outside project financing.
Well we do pay a lot of attention there and that has to do with selectivity of our projects.
The vast majority of our projects and our prospects are with those clients who finance their work from the balance sheet.
Very few of them we've gone through this analysis I think especially in the backend of ‘09 or where that was a real concern a point of ‘09 where that was a concern but very few projects that we are pursuing are vulnerable if you will to the credit risk in the financial markets today.
And are you seeing more broadly other projects out there that maybe you are choosing not to pursue because they do in fact have financing issues and that's becoming more of an issue in the marketplace more broadly.
Well I think as big issue it always has.
I mean you always have the certain component of the market that's somewhat dependent on Exxon financing or other type of tranches if you will that are available to in the marketplace but again those are more one off than I would say mainstream in terms of the major project development we’re seeing as far as project we’re pursuing.
It is not unusual to get Exxon financing somewhere down the road after we for say you know live on the owner’s balance sheet for while and they will tend to finance and we try and you know be as much help as we can.
But we’re still working under the balance sheet for the majors? I think it’s great as a good point because one of the reasons that you see the list of contractors working on of these major major projects being fairly a short list is because we either have to be bankable internally for their owner hurdles and that includes not only the bankability if you will of our resource of our safety records and then on the some of the other major developments which may have a third party financing component in it.
And then can you just give us an update of what’s going on with your work on the global and [VC] summer nuclear projects.
I thought I had read that you restarted work at the end of July and I am just wondering if that hasn’t been a notable impact on the results yet? We can there is a Westinghouse had a delay in the project for some realignment if you will of the project teams and scope of work.
It was a material impact on us.
I mean the scope that we are providing is primarily the material in recon supply very little labor component.
So you wouldn’t see a necessarily show up in the numbers and it is going to back to work and proceeding according to the original plan.
Would you agree with that Lasse? Yeah that’s correct.
They are proceeding on both sides.
Yeah.
But then to remember about those projects whilst you know give or take hundreds of millions of backlogs.
The duration of those jobs is very long 5 to 6 maybe even longer as the year is out so and we’ve a relatively small team working on these projects for that duration.
So it’s hard to move the needle too much unless we have some change in energy policy here in the United States.
We’d just like to see some more Steve.
Your next question comes from the line of Avi Fisher of BMO Capital Markets.
So first when I was putting the backlog and bookings in revenue number the booking revenues as I modeled I noticed here’s a bit of a difference between the backlog I calculated and the backlog you reported about $500 million.
Is that all of the currency or was there any cancellation? Pretty much.
It’s all currency and all in the quarter year-to-date it’s about $300 million.
So we had a little bit of benefit in Q1 and Q2 and then the four currencies I mentioned came back the dollar came back in some very strong in the quarters.
Some of that has already returned and that number will bounce up and down for a while but it was 500 million and some change for the quarter all by itself.
A lot of it was Australian.
A lot of it was Australian.
Some of it was even on you know we obviously booked the Gorgon project when the day when we received it and there was a substantial move the Aussie dollar between the end of July and the end of September.
In reality it had minimal impact on us.
Everything we spent on that project is the same currency we are collecting so and in the end it’s not a financial effect for the revenue side.
Can you breakdown kind of in that regards your backlog by region at all how much is in say Asia Pacific or Australia-Pacific how much in the Middle-East Europe U.S.? You know we just stopped doing that.
We’re breaking it down by end markets.
It’s I think you have that don’t you? Yeah I gave you that number.
And put up it as well.
The reason I'm asking is just because on the margin issue you know it sounds like you’ve got significant backlog.
Let us work on that because it is a great point because as we go forward for you to anticipate any future FX where we concentrated right.
It’s not just that but also in Australia where you have a significant amount of backlog you got about 1/12<sup>th</sup> one week out of twelve where people are going to be on holiday.
And it sounds like that’s a big issue on the margins? Might be on the revenue.
Not on the margins.
All that work in Australia is predominantly cost reimbursable so the margin percentages remain the same and as we mentioned earlier and particularly in this year the Gorgon work the big job in town is really just starting minimal revenues in 2011.
There is an adjustment but I wouldn’t call it an impact.
Again go back to the guidance we feel pretty good about the targets we set for the year and that has some anticipation of certainly FX and other changes in the end markets we’ve seen.
Okay you mentioned on the call also mentioned something about a bauxite aluminum project in the Middle East.
Is there a room for more of these kind of mining refining type projects for you guys? Yeah we are trying to expand our offering in the steel plate structures part of our business to also do tanks and steel pipe work for other industries and the one that we have started to expand into is particularly in the mining industry and there is a good market for us both in the Middle East and in Australia in that particular part of the business.
Do you have any estimate how big that market could be for you guys? Well the mining market is huge for us we are expanding out from where we have existing operations and try to take additional work in those locations.
I don’t have that.
No but I mean if you look at those mining jobs you talk about capital equipment in those projects accounting for 70% of the total investment and when you look at that kind of investment I mean they are mining suppliers out there now who are booked solid until 2014.
So if you take the tankage and some of the associated labor associated with that in some parts of the world where we’re very good in mobilizing just labor for some of those projects as well as the tanks it turns out to be a pretty interesting market with a lot of headwind.
Yes.
It sounds like it could be a great opportunity.
One last quick question for you you know a lot has changed with the markets since August.
Has anything changed with I hate to use the quality of term but the mood of your clients or the pipeline going forward or quantitatively in add-sell pricing and margins since the markets… Well I think we’ve talked about some of those in August.
Certainly with the take Australia for example the development of those projects down there there is a lot of confidence with the demand especially on the heels of the new demand that will be apparent in Japan and elsewhere.
So you know when the spot of anchors open up to around 20 30 it adds 15 years if you will to their projections in terms of their investment and their capital plan.
So that was a change if you will in the mood.
I was just in Asia Pacific a couple of weeks ago and I have seen a change in the mood if you will from the major owners and their confidence on these projects going forward in there.
I think the other change of mood if you will is the anticipation of some of the new markets or at least continuing markets in the United States particularly around petrochemical.
We’ve talked about some potential for conversion of our imports capacity the export on LNG and that’s bit of change in the gas process you know of the Marcellus.
So that’s been a change of mood.
And I think just what Dan was describing in terms of the pace of his licensing activity I think also his proof that there is a change in the mood in parts of the world as far as moving capital investment.
You want to handle that Dan? Yeah I think that obviously you are saying since August then stock market economic uncertainties if that is impacted if that's really where your question comes from.
Yeah I mean….
So the answer to that is that we have not seen any slowdown in our prospects.
We have not seen any significant slippage take place and people think this is committed to the projects.
I think you are looking at this really more of these projects really to a large extent supply driven and taking advantage of good feedstock pricing and you look at that in the longer-term.
So can you book a $170 million and work every quarter? I am always trying.
Yeah that's a great idea.
Your next question comes from the line of Rob Norfleet of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Most of my questions been answered I just had a couple of quick ones; I know you have kind of beaten this margin issue that that a little bit but just one I guess sidebar as it relates to that.
I mean I understand clearly the focus is really on growing earnings but when I do look at the CB&amp;I Lummus business at least over the next 12 months given the as you cited the increase obviously in cost reimbursable work and more labor hours and really the lack of incentives and contracts.
Is it fair to say that kind of that low end of the range let's say 3.5% to 4% is probably more likely than say what we were back in ‘10 at 2.5% close to 5%.
I am just trying to see how we move the needle to get higher unless we start booking obviously as we talked about work into ‘12 only if you see projects in some of the larger LNG work that we’re doing? Yeah I wouldn’t call that trend necessarily but certainly an outcome of again a lot was kind of restructure; we also incurred a lot of pre-contract cost this past year you know and relative to our fees size and some of our fee work we’re doing and our investment and so that work and you know that has something and do with it.
But I think generally we haven’t seen anything change necessarily in the marketplace in terms of the range of possibility opportunity there.
We don’t for example go after a lot of commoditized business in the Middle East relative to Korea for example we just don’t play that game.
However we’ve got a lot of great relationships with the Koreans in technology and a lot of our tank business is coming from the Koreans at normal margin ranges.
So we’re not – you know we’re again we are after where the earnings potential of the end-mark is and end-markets and see how we can do that.
But I won’t characterize that as a change in profitability but certainly we’re going have points in time of the gross margin level which again why Ron constantly has to drum beat while trying to have everyone look at the operating margin level after we – because that’s what we thought to be able to be control in terms of our cost and our cash.
The only thing we’ve a seen a few quarters in a row in anticipating couldn’t it continue a little bit is continued higher pays of pre-contract type cost.
These large jobs the odd jobs that we’ve already booked and those going off to late 2010 and 2013 etcetera our long sales cycle so that will continue to be a topic as we move forward on these things.
In reality it doesn’t move you know we’re only moving 4.5 to 3.6 this quarter so it doesn’t move it a whole lot and I’ve talked about several things that added back to it.
But you know 10 or 20 basis point is a fair amount of that business.
That’s fair and thank you for the response and secondly I know we don’t take a lot of price risk in terms of when we enter into a contract on Steel Plate Structures with the cost of steel but in essence if we are in an environment where steel cost continue to come down as we’ve been seeing over the last month.
Does that carry somewhat of an implied benefit to margins in some of these legacy projects and backlog? Well it certainly would on the current backlog but obviously the new projects that the market does catch-up but we don’t go into the Steel Plate Structure job project necessarily major project thinking about the buy downs as much we did on the opportunity to get 60% to 70% of our risk essentially brought-out if you will in the first few percentage of the jobs.
So we’re going to continue on that process but you’re right I mean lower prices are good for everybody and it certainly helps us on our existing work.
And I think we’re improving that – the stability of the margin is what we’re after and in order to not take that risk helps us keep it in that bandwidth of 6% to 9% operating margins in total that we’ve been enjoying for quite a lot.
That was our final question.
I will now turn the conference back over to Mr.
Asherman for any closing remarks.
Thank you Tiffany.
Well just in summary as you heard we remain confident that our end markets have continued with its level of opportunity.
We need to continue to grow the company at a double-digit pace.
Our business model is proving to be scalable in anticipation of the LNG mega-projects the diversity of the project size and location of Steel Plate Structure orders and the increasing demand for our licensing catalyst heat transfer equipment and gas processing expertise around the world.
Our balance sheet is very healthy which gives us a flexibility to react to perspective acquisitions or internal investments in our business which will positively impact our future growth.
And before I end the call I would also like to put a plug-in for our Investor Day which will begin with a reception of the speaker in the evening of November 8th followed earlier next day with a chance to meet our management team’s in each of our business sectors.
It will be at historic The Pierre Hotel in New York City and if you haven’t received your invitation please let our Investor Relations Manager Christine Thoms as soon as possible.
We are getting a great response and we want to accommodate all of our analysts and investors who want to attend.
So that will conclude our call.
Thank you for your time and interest today.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Holly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the CB&amp;I Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) Before beginning today's call the company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company's press release and the SEC filing.
While forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO at CB&amp;I.
Sir? Good morning and thank you for joining us as we report Chicago Bridge and Iron's results for the fourth quarter of 2011 and our full year's performance.
With me today are CB&amp;I's Chief Operating Officer Lasse Petterson who will report on the activities in our Project Engineering and Construction as well as our Steel Plate Structures sectors; Dan McCarthy President of Lummus Technology reporting on that sector's results and outlook; and our Chief Financial Officer Ron Ballschmiede who will summarize our fourth quarter and year-end financial results.
After some brief comments by each of us we will open the call for your questions.
But before we get into our operational and financial results a metric which is equally important and which speaks to the qualitative aspects of our company is CB&amp;I's relentless focus on the safety of our technical and engineering staff our project management our craft labor and subcontractors on all of our projects in our fabrication facilities offices and laboratories around the world.
For 2011 I'm very proud to report that we continue to have an outstanding safety record.
We executed more than 57 million man hours and achieved a lost-time incident rate of 0.02 which means statistically that we experienced only a single lost-time incident for every 12 million hours worked and that's in some of the most remote regions and challenging circumstances around the world.
And we strongly believe that this is important to our shareholders because it's not only the right thing to do but gives us a tremendous competitive advantage in exceeding customer expectations recruiting and retaining talent and essentially setting a rigorous standard by which our customers and certainly our employees measure our performance.
So in summarizing 2011 results and as my colleagues will now discuss in further detail I'm pleased to report that our year ended with backlog up over 30% from 2010 revenue is up 25% and earnings are up 25% as well.
Cash balances increased significantly and debt was reduced by $40 million.
Overall margin levels performed as expected last year and we are very encouraged by the new awards in the fourth quarter and during the past two months in setting the pace for what we expect to be a solid year in the development of energy projects the continuing demand for additional storage capacity and our strong position in providing proprietary technology solutions for oil and gas customers around the world.
We also remain confident in the guidance we provided during our Investor Day last November and anticipate another solid year ahead for Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron Company.
I'll now turn the call over to Lasse to give you the color around the current backlog and new awards for our Project Engineering and Construction sector as well as our Steel Plate Structures businesses.
Lasse? Thank you Phil.
Good afternoon.
As in the last earnings call I'll give my comments on new awards this quarter and then provide a brief update on some of our larger ongoing projects.
But first I'd like to as Phil start with safety.
Safety is our first priority and our safety culture is founded on our goal of nobody gets hurt at CB&amp;I.
We executed more than 57 million work hours last year with a lost-time incident rate of 0.02 which means we just had one lost-time incident for every 12 million hours worked and these numbers are commendable and comes as a result of diligent work from all our employees on all CB&amp;I projects and location.
And again our goal is and will always be to have no one hurt working on any of our project sites fabrication yards labs or offices.
Now let me turn the focus to new awards.
Our fourth quarter new awards totaled approximately $775 million which included several contracts for conventional storage tanks in the U.S.
and Canada in addition to a number of smaller and medium-sized engineering construction projects.
Typically we book between $2 billion and $2.5 billion per year of these smaller and medium-sized projects which provide us with a steady and reoccurring revenues year-over-year.
In addition we announced earlier in the first quarter of this year the award of the Kearl expansion contract in Canada valued in excess of $750 million.
We were also awarded a Freeport LNG FEED contract for two 4.4 million tons per annum process trains at the existing Freeport LNG import facility which brings our current active LNG FEED and pre-FEED studies to five including the previously announced Browse Arrow Yamal and Shtokman studies.
Also in January we were awarded the FEED for the topside processing facilities on the Luva platform in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea.
In total our new awards in 2011 were $6.8 billion.
And with the new awards already announced for the first month of this year we are off to a good start for 2012.
Moving to our existing projects our backlog now stands at approximately $10 billion comprised of both large and small projects and with a good balance between reimbursable and lump-sum contracts.
Starting with our Project Engineering and Construction business sector formerly known as CB&amp;I Lummus the construction work at REFICAR's new 150 000 barrels per day refinery in Cartagena Colombia is progressing well.
Engineering has been executed in our Houston office over the last two years and fabrication of 84 process modules is underway at our yard in Beaumont Texas.
We have received and erected over 100 large process towers and other equipment at this site – at site in Cartagena and the first process modules from Beaumont has been received and installed.
Our manpower at the site currently exceeds 4 500.
In Canada I stated earlier we were awarded the additional contract in January on Kearl in excess of $750 million for the expansion of the production facility.
Our client has experienced some – the existing Kearl Oil Sands project is making steady progress and our client has experienced some permitting challenges for transportation of client-supplied equipment modules through Idaho and Montana.
However we anticipate that the client will receive these modules shortly and we will proceed to complete the project.
In Yokohama the FEED work for Browse and Arrow LNG liquefaction facilities are on schedule for completion in the second quarter of 2012.
On Browse this will include submission of an EPC price for the full LNG plant development.
In London the FEED engineering work on the Yamal project in Russia is also on schedule and we anticipate continuing engagement on the project preparing for the later execution phases.
As I mentioned a few moments ago we have recently been awarded a FEED for the Freeport LNG liquefaction trains and it is an important milestone for us.
We will be signing new processing trains for an existing U.S.
LNG import terminal changing it to an export facility which will produce LNG from abundant sources of conventional and shale gas.
All of these studies and FEED projects offer us encouraging opportunities for additional EPC work from 2012 and beyond.
In Papua New Guinea on Exxon's gas conditioning plant in the highlands we are in full swing driving piles and building the foundations for the process equipment.
And in the U.S.
construction is nearing completion on the 200 million standard cubic foot processing plant at Occidental's Elk Hills field in California.
And construction work has commenced at Dominion's gas processing plant in West Virginia which will receive gas for the Marcellus and Utica Shale gas fields.
Regarding offshore projects in the U.K.
the engineering work for Nexen's two platforms on the Golden Eagle Field is on schedule.
We currently have more than 400 engineers working on this project.
With the Luva FEED award I mentioned earlier we will be continuing to expand the position in offshore oil and gas and specifically the North Sea where we see a resurgence of new project opportunities.
Shifting to our Steel Plate Structures business sector.
In the Middle East the GASCO project in Abu Dhabi where we are constructing eight storage tanks six cryogenic tanks and two naphtha storage tanks is progressing ahead of schedule.
Construction is approximately 80% complete.
Additionally we have several large conventional storage tank projects underway in Abu Dhabi and Saudi Arabia including 90 tanks as part of Takreer's refinery expansion project.
Construction and fabrication are in progress and scheduled to be completed in 2012.
A highlight last year was signing of the $2.3 billion contract with Chevron for the mechanical electrical and instrumentation construction works building the three LNG process trains on the Gorgon Project in Australia.
The main volume of construction work performed in 2013 and '14.
At peak some 3 000 CB&amp;I employees will be engaged on this project and the majority project staff and craft will come from our current Australian organization complemented with some additional resource from our deep and worldwide pool of experienced LNG project personnel.
We have mobilized a core project management team in Perth and are deeply engaged compiling the detailed construction plans for this mega project.
On Barrow Island construction of the two Gorgon LNG tanks has started.
We have poured the foundations for both tanks and tank shell and roof construction has begun.
Safety performance on the Island has been exemplary with zero lost time and zero recordable incidents.
In Papua New Guinea we are building the LNG storage tanks for Exxon's LNG project on the coast at Port Moresby.
The gas from the PNG gas plant in the highlands will be processed here and then shipped to market.
The LNG tank foundations has been poured shell construction has begun and prefabricated structures and equipment are being delivered from our yard in Thailand.
I will close by saying that our end markets are continuing to provide us with new opportunities as seen by the recent awards and as demonstrated by our work on all these projects.
CB&amp;I has the ability to participate globally across the entire oil and gas value chain.
I'll now hand over to Dan to comment on Lummus Technology.
Thank you Lasse and good afternoon.
Lummus Technology enjoyed another strong quarter in new awards earnings and cash flow.
Awards were in the range of $150 million.
Improvement in heat transfer equipment sales as well as strong catalyst sales contributed to this result.
I will provide some detail on some of the larger awards.
In January of this year we issued a press release announcing two large heater contracts one was signed in December and the other in January.
In both of these contracts we will supply refinery process heaters to hydroprocessing projects in Russia.
Russia continues to be a strategic region because in addition to these refinery heaters we are also pursuing the supply of the pyrolysis heaters for the Rosneft ethylene project.
We contracted for two ethylene pyrolysis heaters in the fourth quarter.
These heaters are part of a shale gas driven U.S.
ethylene expansion project based on Lummus license technology.
The license was booked in the prior quarter and we are optimistic that this project will be executed by PEC.
China continues to be an important market for us with the award of a project to convert methanol to olefins.
And in the Middle East we initiated an isobutane dehydrogenation expansion process package.
As we reflect back on 2011 we will see some very significant shifts in demand for our technologies.
While China and Asia-Pacific remain robust markets we have seen increases in project activity in North America and Russia.
North America is obviously driven by low feedstock and energy costs and these are providing us multiple opportunities in natural gas processing ethylene and propylene.
In Russia we continue to see opportunities to upgrade refineries with our technology portfolio but we also see a substantial shift in capital investment emphasis towards petrochemicals.
For 2012 we project continued strength in our key businesses.
Gas processing has the potential to deliver multiple projects.
For the large projects CB&amp;I will maximize its value proposition by leveraging its proprietary process technology and its project execution capabilities.
Lummus Technology will address smaller gas plant opportunities by offering its proprietary technology as a standardized modular solution.
Ethylene propylene and butadiene projects will drive our petrochemical activities.
These projects can be expected not only in North America and Russia but also in the Middle East Asia-Pacific and China.
Our traditional ethylene business will generate additional revenue opportunity by ethylene pyrolysis heater supply.
There are three projects started in previous years and based on Lummus ethylene licenses that already fit into this category.
The refinery sector is also providing more project opportunities as a result of FEED and product shifts as well as increased utilization due to plant closures.
Before closing I would like to make a brief comment on Lummus Technology's fourth quarter earnings.
Although Ron will go through the numbers in detail you may have noted a sharp increase in Lummus Technology's earnings.
Part of this increase comes from CLG through the equity income line and part is through consolidated operations.
In both cases however the primary explanation is increased catalyst sales.
Gross profit recognition is taken at the time of catalyst shipment and since some large shipments took place in the fourth quarter it resulted in a substantial increase in period earnings.
In closing I would summarize by saying that we feel our business is well positioned to capitalize on the strong project opportunities in our technology fields.
Thank you.
And I'll turn it back to Phil.
Thank you Dan.
Ron let's look at the financial results.
Thanks Phil and good afternoon everyone.
With that overview of our major sector activities and our markets around the world let me take you through our financial performance for another strong quarter and strong year.
Revenue for the fourth quarter was $1.3 billion up $307 million or 32% from the fourth quarter of 2010.
Full year revenues totaled $4.6 billion up from $3.6 billion in 2010 or 25%.
The quarter and year revenue increases were consistent with our expectations reflecting the increase in construction activities on our large Steel Plate Structures and Project Engineering and Construction projects awarded in late 2009 and increasing revenues from Lummus Technology.
We previously announced our 2012 revenue guidance range of $5.2 billion to $5.6 billion which is an indicative increase of almost 20% based upon the midpoint of our guidance.
This revenue growth reflects the continued ramp-up of our large awards and our higher opening backlog.
Our 2012 revenue burn is anticipated to be 40% to 45% of our December 31st 2011 backlog of $9 billion.
This backlog burn compares to approximately 50% for 2011 and reflects the increase in our long-duration 2011 new awards the largest of which is our multiyear $2.3 billion Gorgon MEI project announced in the third quarter.
Finally with our strong backlog position we expect our first – our 2012 first quarter revenue to be generally consistent with our 2011 fourth quarter and increase sequentially each quarter throughout 2012.
Our gross profit for the fourth quarter was $147 million compared to $130 million in 2010.
The full year gross profit of $570 million or 12.5% of revenues reflects a $78 million increase over 2010 with each of our sectors enjoying significant revenue gross profit and operating income growth.
Selling and administrative expenses remain well controlled decreasing to 4% of revenues for the fourth quarter and 4.5% for the full year.
The most significant component of the period-over-period absolute dollar increase in selling and administrative expense was attributable to our December 2010 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in CDTECH a previously unconsolidated joint venture.
We expect our 2012 selling and administrative expense to be in the range of 4% of revenues with the same historical variations driven by items such as higher stock-based compensation costs in the first quarter.
As an important reminder when thinking about stock-based compensation costs GAAP requires special – these – GAAP requires certain stock-based compensation to retiree-eligible participants to be expensed in the quarter in which the awards are made.
CB&amp;I's long-term incentive compensation awards predominantly occur in the first quarter.
In 2011 the aforementioned accounting resulted in over half of our full year stock-based compensation expense recorded in the first quarter predominantly classified as S&amp;A.
Said another way in terms of dollars the expense in the first quarter of 2011 incrementally exceeded the stock-based comp and expense in each of our second third and fourth quarters by approximately $0.10 per share.
We would expect this accounting seasonality if you will to continue into the future.
The variance in our equity earnings between years reflects the previously discussed consolidation of CDTECH's results subsequent to December 31st 2010 offset by increased equity earnings of our remaining Lummus Technology joint venture CLG.
CLG's results improved in the quarter and the year reflecting the refinery related market improvements which Dan spoke to earlier in the call.
Fourth quarter operating income totaled $99 million our second best quarter on record or 7.9% of revenues.
The full year operating income of $355 million an all-time high also reflects a 17% increase over our 2010 results.
Over the trailing three-year period our operating margin has totaled 7.6% of revenues reflecting the quality of our backlog solid execution and the relative contribution of each of our sectors.
Our net interest expense decreased by $8.5 million to $3.2 million reflecting lower interest expense on lower borrowings higher interest on higher cash balances and a favorable interest expense reduction for the resolution of tax contingencies.
Our income tax rate of 28.1% for the quarter and 27.5% for the full year essentially unchanged from the prior year.
We expect our 2012 effective income tax rate to be in the normalized range of 28% to 32% reflecting the changing geograph of our backlog to higher tax rate jurisdictions.
Our net income attributable to non-controlling interest or minority interest did not have a significant impact on our 2011 financial results.
However as we have previously discussed we do expect this change going forward – this to change going forward.
Minority interest from our two large projects with 35% partners specifically Gorgon MEI and the PNG gas plant and other majority owned-subsidiaries is expected to increase significantly in 2012.
While cost-reimbursable projects like Gorgon MEI and PNG generally provide owners with greater influence over the timing of when we perform our work we currently expect our 2012 minority interest will be in the $25 million range.
The summation of all that results in fourth quarter net income of $70 million or $0.70 per diluted share and earnings per share for the full year of $2.55 an all-time record high for the third consecutive year.
EBITDA totaled $117 million for the fourth quarter and $425 million for the year or 9.3% of revenue for both periods.
Finally as a reminder in November of 2011 we provided EPS guidance for 2012 of $2.75 to $3.05 per share.
Phil Lasse and Dan spoke to our new awards and prospect activity.
So I'll provide just some overall comments.
Our new awards for the fourth quarter totaled $772 million and $6.8 billion for the full year which provides us with a full year book-to-burn of 1.5.
We announced major new awards in the quarter which totaled just over $100 million with the balance of approximately $650 million from smaller projects and contract growth spread nicely around the world amongst our sectors and project types.
Our prospects going into 2012 including our already announced $750 million new award for the Kearl project provide us with confidence in our new award guidance of $5.5 billion to $7 billion for 2012.
Our backlog totaled $9 billion at the end of the year compared to $6.9 billion at the beginning of the year.
As I mentioned previously our 2012 backlog burn is expected to be 40% to 45% and based upon the midpoints of our new award and revenue guidance we expect to grow our backlog again in 2012.
Now let me take you through the sectors' Q4 results.
Each of our sector's fourth quarter and full year results were within our expected annual range of operating results which we have discussed previously.
Specifically our performance expectations are operating income in the range of 7% to 10% for Steel Plate Structures 3% to 6% for PEC and annual operating income for Lummus Technology in the $100 million range.
Steel Plate Structures reported fourth quarter and full year 2011 revenue of $476 million and $1.8 billion respectively an increase of 19% and 26% over the prior periods.
Our major LNG and other storage tank backlog together with our 2011 $2.3 billion Gorgon LNG MEI new award is expected to provide additional double-digit revenue growth in 2012.
Operating income totaled $40 million or 8.3% of revenues for the fourth quarter and $167 million or 9.2% for the full year.
Our 2011 operating results generally benefited from higher revenue volume and better cost recoveries from increased construction activities partially offset by higher pre-contract and selling and administrative costs.
Project Engineering and Construction or PEC revenues totaled $654 million in the fourth quarter up $192 million a strong 42% increase over 2010.
For the full year PEC's revenues increased 20% to $2.3 billion.
The revenue increase for both the quarter and the year was driven by greater construction activities on our Colombia refining PNG and U.S.
gas processing and the oil sands projects.
Income from operations totaled $29.5 million or 4.5% of revenues in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $18.3 million or 4% in 2010.
For the full year income from operations totaled $91.6 million or 4% of revenues.
Again our 2011 operating results benefited by the additional volume of work somewhat offset on the percentage of revenue basis because of higher percentage of revenues generated from our cost reimbursement projects and higher pre-contract and S&amp;A spent.
Finally as Dan mentioned Lummus Technology had a strong quarter reporting operating income of $30 million up slightly from the fourth quarter of 2010.
Full year operating income totaled $96.3 million up $10 million or 12% over the prior year.
Fourth quarter and year-to-date revenues and operating results benefited from the aforementioned acquisition and subsequent consolidation of CDTECH.
Additionally Dan previously mentioned an improving refining market particularly around catalyst sales and the continued strength of petrochemical demand.
Now a few comments on our balance sheet cash flow and other financial matters as we have many positive developments in the quarter.
Our balance sheet and liquidity remain strong with a cash balance of $672 million up $132 million from the end of the third quarter and up $190 million from the beginning of the year reflecting our strong 2011 operating performance.
This strong cash reflects investments in growing our business through capital expenditures of $41 million and paying down our term debt by $40 million.
In addition we returned $155 million of cash to our shareholders through $135 million of stock repurchases and $20 million of cash dividends.
Fourth quarter stock repurchases and cash dividends totaled $40 million.
We continue to have no revolver borrowings with net cash of $632 million.
Our term debt balance at the end of 2012 was $40 million with the final installment due in November of this year.
One additional milestone I'd like to point out is our shareholders' equity at the end of the year was $1.2 billion.
Our investment and contract capital reflecting the combined balances of receivables contracts and process and accounts payable stands at a negative $701 million at the end of the year compared to $656 million at the beginning of the year.
With respect to capital investment I previously mentioned that our 2011 CapEx totaled $41 million and we expect our 2012 capital expenditures to be between $65 million and $75 million.
The increase reflects investments to expand and improve the efficiencies of our catalyst fabrication operations of CDTECH and the anticipated equipment necessary to deliver the construction phases of our backlog.
In closing our strong backlog and financial position provides us with the necessary financial flexibility to deliver our projects to the owners and take advantage of the energy market demands for our services.
We are well positioned for opportunities to grow our company and to continue to provide strong returns to our shareholders.
Phil? Thank you all for those reports.
We'll now open the call to your questions.
Good afternoon Joe.
Good afternoon everyone and congratulations on a great year.
Thank you.
My first question is obviously the awards are a little light this quarter but I don't think anybody is going to fault you guys.
Backlog is close to record levels and you've got Kearl that you are booking in the first quarter.
But as we talk to a lot of the other E&amp;C companies that have reported it looks like a lot of the large awards are back-half-loaded for 2012.
And I'm wondering if you guys can give us a little color on the timing of some of these large projects that you could potentially book in the backlog this year.
Well as I said earlier – first of all we are pretty confident about the guidance we gave.
We think that's a pretty good target.
As you know we build our forecast for new awards based on actual projects not general market conditions.
And generally we are pretty confident.
I mean the target with the guidance – the top end of the guidance we had for 2011 but for a few weeks certainly would have been achieved.
But still going into 2012 we haven't necessarily seen much moving to the right of some anticipated awards primarily as it relates to some of the gas processing expansions.
Certainly the – we were glad to see the start of FEED contract for Freeport.
And big projects that you certainly know about that are in the mix as far as the Browse FEED continuing and other awards we haven't seen a lot of movement in our previously anticipated new award forecast.
Okay.
That's – I mean nothing that I would say would change our previous outlook.
Okay.
And maybe you can touch on the opportunity here in North America.
Obviously the Freeport contract was definitely interesting.
Are you hearing or having more conversations with other customers on LNG facilities here in the U.S.? Sure.
Certainly we are.
That's a great development that we've been seeing over the last couple of years.
And I think as we've spoken before a couple of years ago I don't think – I think a lot of us had a little skepticism whether that would really develop into programs and projects as quickly as it has.
Certainly SENER [ph] is in the queue and I think Freeport is solidly taking their place in the queue with a very aggressive approach to the amount of capacity they plan to build here in Texas.
And certainly there are others.
So we anticipate there's at least three or four very interesting and developed export facilities being talked about right now.
And we anticipate that the ones going forward we certainly will have some opportunity.
Okay.
That's great.
And I guess one last question.
KBR mentioned earlier in Australia that they've started to notice the development of some labor shortages.
I was wondering if that's starting to impact your business at all in Australia and perhaps maybe you can comment as well on potentially Steel Plate opportunities for some of the other projects that are still in the queue there in Australia.
Thank you.
that's the big push in terms of labor.
But just let me generally say that the work we are doing on the LNG tanks and a variety of projects are going very well.
That's a different labor requirement.
Certainly we have the opportunity to get out early on those tank jobs.
So on the tank portion of the work which is considerable we haven't experienced any measurable labor issues there.
Of course it is a challenge and it is – the labor is expensive.
But I think it's also in the mix and we are doing I think some very good things around the world to try to affect that mix and get the right talent just not try to hit the number.
But why don't you talk about a little bit Lasse on Gorgon? Yes.
We haven't seen any of this materializing yet.
As you know we've been in Australia for over 60 years on CB&amp;I.
And our turn is to utilize the current employees that have been with us on the North West Shelf on the Pluto contracts mechanical contracts and also on the storage account on contracts.
So we have a good following in Australia.
And we will recruit in the Australian market and as you know the Gorgon construction is mainly in 2013 and 2014 which is somewhat earlier than some of the other projects that are being talked about.
In addition to that we can tap in to our worldwide resource of construction craft and employees follow us to various projects in all parts of the world and most of them speak English well which is required for these as to Australia as you know for craft labor.
And we have a lot following up Filipino and Thai and North American workers who are very interested in joining us in Australia.
So we have a detailed plan in place for each discipline to mobilize on the Gorgon MEI and we are currently actively training in recruiting for the project.
And as you know we have picked up earlier on Pluto we had – well that's coming from U.S.
to participate in completion on Pluto projects.
So I think we are well positioned to source the projects we are looking at.
And I think just the final point of that Joe without the labor in it is that where we have already have a well-developed self-performed and direct higher component of our existing model.
So we are certainly capitalizing on that and I am not denying that Australia will continue to be a challenge but we seem to be hitting the mark as we proceed down on these projects.
Good point I will get back in queue thank you.
Thank you.
Good afternoon Michael.
Hi good evening everybody.
Following up your comments on labor how do you look at the total professional service engineering craft staff that you have at December 31<sup>st</sup> the ability to meet your man hour and backlog needs in '12 and if we look out to '13 and beyond you get the fortune to hit some of these big projects? Is there a big hiring coming forward or is acquisitions coming to play to target some more professional and craft services? It's a good point Michael and I would say short of a financial transaction.
You really have to look at how we have been able to leverage on the collaborations and joint ventures that we have implemented on all of these projects and what we anticipate.
For example on Papua New Guinea we have got a joint venture with Clough which certainly helps us mitigate the pressures on labor and project management.
Same situation on Gorgon with Kentz it was assumed a large part of responsibility for particularly the electrical and instrumentation phase of the project and other services.
Browse Yamal and Shtokman on the FEED we have got a great joint venture that's working together with Chiyoda and Saipem tremendous resources in those two companies.
Of course our newest example that we announced is Freeport LNG with our 50-50 joint venture with Zachry and that I would have to say on top of that our North Sea work we are developing great relationships with (inaudible) over there to try to again leverage the resources out there short of financial transaction.
So I think we feel pretty confident that we are going to be able to put together these teams to address the resource issues as well as mitigate some of the risk.
And certainly in technology we have got a history of that as well as we see on our joint venture with Chevron.
So we are very open to forming these kinds of relationships leveraging these collaborations and we think it's a great concept for or a great idea for our projects and our customers and certainly our employees.
Appreciate those comments and my follow-up.
Phil is as you look at say when you break down your hydrocarbon market opportunities into your kind of six main areas LNG refining gas process etcetera which one area could surprise to the upside in 2012 for new business opportunities and which one maybe you might be a little bit more cautious or little less excited about? Thank you.
We are very excited of the way the market is developing and downstream and chemical jobs and petrochemical work particularly in gas process in the United States.
Again a couple of years ago we saw a major shift in capital development to other parts of the world.
This has been a great development and certainly for our market and I would say just from my perspective I will let the rest of the team comment on it but again this continuous development on capitalizing the abundance of natural gas whether it's the gas processing and monetizing the liquids out of those developments or if it's cheaper feedstock to encourage development of chemical plant downstream plants here and ethylene plants as well as we are seeing on free port the export of LNG.
These are major projects and we feel we are pretty well positioned.
So in terms of how the market has changed relative to a couple of weeks ago I think that shift is very exciting because it again it just adds to our long-term forecast than what we anticipated a couple of years ago.
Excellent.
Thank you Phil.
Mike thank you.
Good afternoon Rob.
Good afternoon and sounding like who break their own record like everyone else congratulations on another great quarter.
We don't get tired of hearing so thank you.
I am sure.
Just a couple of quick questions.
I guess first of all when you look at Steel Plate Structures margins in the quarter obviously a little below where they were in Q1 and Q2 and I think last call you talked about a facility construction cost and development cost that adversely impacted the margin.
Did we see some more of that come through in the fourth quarter or was this just general mix? I would say it's more general mix.
Of course one of the major projects that isn't a traditional tank erection job is is our Gorgon field activities that continues to ramp up.
That's on a different contractual basis that are fixed price on the rest of them.
So that has a bit of an impact on there but Ron correct me if I am wrong but we didn't see any structural issues that would affect the margins.
It was an incremental and more of mix and the timing of the revenues.
Yes I think that's right.
I think it's dangerous to look at the margins at any one particular quarter.
We like to talk about that 7% to 10% range over a four-quarter period and I think we are right in where we expected to be for the full year.
Okay perfect.
And as we start obviously ramping some of these larger jobs throughout the course of 2012 on an EPC basis how should we look at the margin trajectory for CBI Lummus? I mean obviously the fourth quarter was good.
For your comment I am not looking at quarter-over-quarter because it is very lumpy but should we start to see a little bit of progression on the margin line in the CBI Lummus business? I would continue to guide you within that range that we have been providing for that business unit.
We don't see any events or any circumstances in either our forecast or the new awards which would probably lead you to a different answer than what's already contained in that model.
That probably would be a good guidance as far as staying within that range for margin forecast.
Okay.
And last question is it fair to say on the CBI on the Lummus technology business are we still forecasting that plus or minus 10% to 100 million even on (inaudible) basis? I would say yes what do you say Dan? We are very encouraged with what we see in technology and as Dan talked about the opportunities in petrochemicals and certainly the opportunities we are starting to see in North America which start in his business are very encouraging as well as the licensing and the catalyst sales in various parts of the world.
So we are very encouraged by that.
And so I think the 10% we say plus or minus but I think certainly we are certainly forecasting that's achievable.
And I think Dan may be a little modest.
You know those new awards in 2011 were just outstanding.
So that should help us going forward.
Absolutely.
Thanks again and congratulations.
Thank you Rob.
Good afternoon Jamie.
Hi good afternoon and congrats.
Thank you.
See because you do a good job I am going to push on your numbers then.
So I guess Phil or Ron you ended the year at $2.55 [ph] and I think last year when you guys initially guided at your Analyst Day you were more in the $2.15 to $2.40 [ph] range.
I am looking at your guidance right now and I am just wondering what the levers are that you see to exceed the $2.75 to $3.05.
Is it just timing of awards because to some degree well awards like you pointed out earlier it doesn't seem to be getting pushed to the right.
So I guess – I think you are right Jamie.
I think it's a combination of factors.
Backlog obviously is current backlog and new awards.
So the other part of that equation is how we are forecasting progress on some of the major jobs and certainly some of the reimbursable jobs.
There has been some issues in getting for example Papua New Guinea which is a big part of our backlog progress to the point where we had the value if you will and credit if you will against progress.
Similar situation on major jobs not a financial impact to us but certainly one that affects how we forecast and the timing of revenues this next year and obviously that is true for 2012.
So that's really the challenge.
Again we don't anticipate there is an issue relative to any financial change in our forecast but the pace of that I think has always been a challenge relative to new awards as well as the timing of revenues in our current backlog.
I guess then – sorry go ahead Ron if you were going to say something.
I would just add we certainly are looking for a significant double-digit growth in PEC followed by double-digit growth in other units.
And I think one of the benefits of the sector in the operating income that even the question that even Rob had I think if you model in where that growth is coming from from a revenue standpoint there is the highest growth coming of our PEC which is great.
We are turning that backlog into operating earnings.
So when do you the math around that it should help you understand our range a little bit.
Yes and remember Jamie we are going to first quarter reporting in a few weeks.
So every few weeks will give us a little more clarity in terms of the timing of these new awards.
But that's how we see it right now.
Okay and then just second question can you just – obviously market seem to be getting better and I know you are not always a lot of times you team up with the Asian competition but could you comment globally whether just what you are seeing on as sold margins or tightening up capacity or are you seeing increased hiring trends or E&amp;C companies you aggressively going after some of your competitors and contractors.
I am just trying to get a feel for to what degree the market is picking up.
We try very hard to stay out of those predatory pricing markets out there particularly in some of the Middle Eastern markets particularly some process types related work downstream EPC work.
But as far as the rest of our in-markets as sold margins seem to be holding.
I wouldn't say there is any big change up or down in that but certainly sustainable going forward.
All right.
Thanks I will get back in queue.
Congrats.
Thank you Jamie.
Good afternoon Andy.
Hi good afternoon guys.
It's Alan Fleming standing in for Andy today.
Appreciate you taking my questions.
Alan okay.
I wanted to touch on the Lummus Tech awards this quarter.
They were quite strong and you guys highlighted strong catalyst sales and refining demand.
So I guess my question is is can we think about this as kind of a run rate in 2012 for those awards? Do we expect them to stay kind of at that elevated level? Dan? I think that this level of 150 may not be exactly the sustainable level but it's certainly up significantly from the past where we used to say 100 to 120.
So it's moving up as I said in upward trajectory and we are confident that our sales this year will be significantly better than last year.
certainly working capital we don't necessarily require in that business that we might in others as well as the tremendous margins we have in that business.
So incrementally as you talk this doing 100 and 150 that's huge leverage for us going forward.
Okay thanks.
And my follow-up is on the oil sands if you could kind of touch on what kind of competition you are seeing there.
We heard previously that customers seem to be moving kind of at a more deliberate pace than maybe they had in the last cycle.
Can you guys talk about that kind of what kind of activity you are seeing and how projects are moving forward there? Yes let me touch on them and I will let Lasse expand but generally our oil sands is fairly well concentrated for ExxonMobil and Imperial at their development.
Certainly we have got opportunities that other developments as we have is just being a permanent resident if you will of that region in Alberta but certainly the major part of our backlog in oil sands is concentrating on that project.
And they have been very very impressive in pursuing their objectives on that program and we are very pleased that we have been a primary contractors on that but it has been a good piece for us.
We are looking forward and you look at that the work is large.
Last year it exceeded over $1 billion I guess on the first phase of the work and the expansion of course rewarded 750 and we think there's probably ongoing work there too.
So when we talk about oil sands it is primarily concentrated with that development it's primarily concentrated with that client and we certainly see this long durable backlog just I would add.
So generally speaking there is some opportunities but again that's where the oil sands revenues are going to come from.
Lasse you want to add to that? I think you covered pretty well Phil.
The part that we are involved in is – which is the extraction plants Unique offering where we are offering these parts on a fixed price lump sum basis which nobody else does in the oil sands and that's been very attractive to our time.
And (inaudible) dialog with us on the same type of scope and contract for us.
Okay.
And if I could squeeze one more in and I think this was alluded to in a previous question but is there a potential we could see you guys win a storage work some storage work on these contracts in Australia? I don't know.
We haven't really targeted that one.
That's not in our forecast right now but certainly we have got a pretty good track record or LNG storage in the other parts and all the other developments.
So that one I really can't predict right now but certainly our LNG components or LNG storage tank in Australia component is a pretty strong part of our backlog there.
Okay.
Thanks guys nice quarter.
Hello Will.
Thank you.
How is it going? Good.
So just a couple of hopefully very easy answers for you but I am curious on CLG.
What type of visibility do you have there in general because we see this variability in the number? How far ahead do you actually see? Dan the visibility of CLG in terms of – I think that part of the – the answer to that is it's similar it's just same as all the rest of the technology business and our project development cycle is roughly 18 months.
So we always have a good view out into the future.
Of course we have a very large component of ratable catalyst sales that supports that business and that is always linked into refinery turnarounds which are very predictable.
So I hope that answers your question.
It may not be smooth but it's relatively predictable.
Yes.
Okay.
In terms of the Russian feed work your feed work in Russia that you working on between Yamal and Shtokman can you just give a little more detail on how you would prepare to mobilize your projects like that and what your expectation has been in any type of investment you had to make so far in order to be prepared to do that type of work again? Again I will let Lasse comment on this.
Yamal is probably ahead certainly in terms of the actual work that has been done on that feed let's say in terms of the pace of the development.
It is a paid work that we are engaging in for both of those feeds.
So it would really require us to invest if you will pre-contract costs and these are one of those and we fully expect that we will be able to conclude that with an agreement at the end of the feed.
So we haven't had any cost necessarily that we have invested in those projects.
Anything you want to add to that? That is correct and we are here executing our feed for Novatech as a client on your model and as Novatech is moving forward with the project we are optimistic that we will be following on with additional work for the same client.
I think that's the only comment I would add.
Okay.
But I would anticipate at the end of that we would be surprised if there was a tender it would be certainly our intent to negotiate the contract going into the EPC.
Okay.
In Canada given your strong position out there in the oil sands right now how does the LNG market set up for you both from a liquefaction standpoint or maybe some of the MEI or storage work around the new gas basins that are driving those projects? as you know and I think they fully expect they will negotiate into the EPC.
We would hope that we can provide an offering certainly on the storage facilities which are substantial on that project.
And from an LNG standpoint that really is the primary LNG opportunity that we see in Canada.
But certainly in North America when you talk about the conversion of these export facilities and just anything related to gas and gas processing we certainly see it very encouraging and are very excited about what we see in front of us.
Okay.
And then lastly on Browse and Arrow just curious as those feeds wind down from a capacity standpoint how easily you think you will be able to redeploy those higher billing engineered type people into newer feeds on projects you are looking at to just how to develop the pipeline as maybe for either LNG feeds later in the year in different geographies? Each has a different phase as you know.
Browser has already come out with what their schedule and will be and as far as going to EPC by far this year early 2013.
Arrow has I think been very public about being after that.
So we haven't seen anything in further resources that we are unable to address.
And of course again I will remind you that we got this wonderful joint venture with our colleagues at Chiyoda and Saipem which certainly helps us leverage resources from all of the major LNG technical centers in the world including Yokohama London and certainly Houston.
So right now with certainly the balance and resources is achievable and with these joint ventures I think it gives us tremendous amount of leverage for our engineering resources.
All right.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Nice job.
Avi how are you doing? Doing a good job.
I feel that's not the first time.
Just you had very thorough comments I just had some quick questions.
You are talking about 30% [ph] and 45% of your backlog.
That leaves about $1.5 billion to get to the revenue guidance.
How does that compare to the book and burn work you do in prior years? It's pretty close.
I think if you – I don't have in front of me – but if you did the math for last year you would find about $1.5 billion give or take of that comes out of these small projects that we talked about each quarter.
So it's going to be in that $1.5 billion plus or minus few hundred million dollars each year for the last several years anyways.
And are most of those small projects in the Steel Plate Structures side or are they all over the place? All over the place.
They would include some of Dan's work in technology they would include a fair amount of engineering services work from our offices around the world and then bread and butter small Steel Plate Structure work it's all of the above.
Great.
Thanks.
And also on backlog you talked about it growing year-over-year can you sort of drill down a little bit in which segments you expect it to sort of provide the growth? Is it in the Steel Plate Structure is it in the E&amp;C side? Sure I think we don't get real granular about that but I would expect backlog growth in each of the three sectors next year.
Both is the easy answer or all three? All three.
Got you.
Actually one other quick question I wonder if you can talk a little bit I am not sure if you have said this before about the progression of the Freeport LNG contract.
Do you expect to get the construction on it will Zachry do the construction on it sort of I am trying to understand how that -? We have been working with them for a little while obviously in the development of this and we are just very very pleased with how that joint venture has come together.
And certainly Zachry I mean they have a great legacy construction company in Texas.
This is a great job for Texas and as well as the owners.
So we are very happy with how all of those team members have come together.
And as 50-50 joint venture we are both committing resources both on an engineering and survey construction side we both share a common I guess a common heritage on how to execute these projects and I think that's why the owners selected us.
So we have been able to work very together and we have got as far as the pace of that I think we certainly anticipate that feed lasting a good portion of this year before we negotiate into an EPC contract.
So we are very excited about the opportunity we think this is going to be a very important and critical project for United States this year.
And Avi the other part of maybe your question is we would expect sitting here what we know whatever the prices on this but generally it will be a 50-50 revenue split also.
On the feed and on the EPC side? Correct.
And they would go into EPC next year pretty much.
They certainly go into – yes.
We are planning on that.
You know what these does this is paid effort [ph] and you know what they cost and I can't tell you it really moves the needle much.
It's just anticipation of what really is going to lead to.
And we want a nice long – or not long but certainly a thorough feed study period and the teams are working together and we are all here in Texas and I think it's just going to be a great job.
The owners obviously have been very aggressive in terms of getting all of their pyramid lined up and so we are pretty happy with the way things are coming together.
Got you.
Thanks very much for your color.
All right thank you.
Hi Scott.
Hi good evening guys.
Quick question on the cash flow and the cash balances you are obviously growing a lot over the last year.
And I know you don't provide guidance on that but if the expectation is going to grow roughly proportionate would your bookings in your earnings what thoughts can we think about here with regard to priorities and if you don't find a lot out there if it's your profile for M&amp;A I mean is there a thought that the dividend may come up a little bit or buybacks? Just general thoughts on cash deployment with the balance increasing the way it has.
I think we certainly talked about and all those options are on the table.
But certainly our priorities would be certainly to reinvest that in the growth of our company and certainly keeping our balance sheet flexible enough that we can address not only acquisitions as they become available to us in technology and certainly on the engineering construction side.
That would be a priority if we can pursue that.
And then other options that you mentioned is certainly on the table but we are not leaving the bank we are going to get our return to our shareholders.
And I don't see any reason why your hypothesis is not correct.
In other words our cash flow will give plus or minus of operating income we don't see anything extraordinary in 2012.
I mentioned our range of CapEx and that approximates our D&amp;A.
So we should be right in that ballpark.
Maybe one follow-on from an M&amp;A perspective is there anything outside your current capabilities from an end market point of view whether it's mining or technologies that you are focused on maybe an update and a little bit more specifics with regard to what you are targeting from an M&amp;A standpoint? We are going to stay in our sweet spot and that sweet spot tends to be around energy but we are also going to be smart about it.
We are going to go out and pay too much in some of the very high multiples we have seen very recently for some of these investments.
We are going to make sure that's got a great return.
Strategically important for long term and certainly it's a right value if we make an acquisition.
So we have those kinds of filters but again short of financial transaction we are going to leverage our resources through this continuing joint ventures and certainly all of the options are on the table for a return to our shareholders in terms of share buyback and dividends.
And that's how we are going to approach it.
All right.
Thanks nice quarter.
All right.
Thanks Scott.
Thank you.
In closing I want to thank all of you for your interest and questions this afternoon.
No doubt we are working hard to retain the confidence of our investors our customers and our employees in this truly fast moving and rapidly developing global energy market.
Part of that answer is CBI's ability to continue to capitalize on our global reach I am even more excited by what lies ahead and I look forward to discussing the opportunities with you as the year unfolds.
So with that that will conclude our call.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good afternoon.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the CB&amp;I 2010 first quarter earnings conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) Before beginning today's call the Company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the Company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company's press release and SEC filings.
While forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in such statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today to discuss our results in the first quarter.
With me are Lasse Petterson CB&amp;I's Chief Operating Officer; Dan McCarthy President of Lummus Technology; and Ron Ballschmiede CB&amp;I's Chief Financial Officer.
Following some brief comments from each of us we will then open the call for your questions.
We're pleased to announce a solid first quarter with the three sectors all reporting good results.
New awards of $560 million in the quarter are well in line with the anticipated run rate that we expected; absent of the very large new projects we still see ahead of us in the rest of the year.
Current backlog is nearly $7 billion compared to just under $5 billion this time last year.
Ron will be addressing the specifics of our financial results in a few minutes but it's worth highlighting the gross profit line of over 14% with operating income of nearly 8% as clearly indicative of the type of return we want from our business model considering the unique mix of work and the commercial characteristics of our operating sectors.
Also contributing to this was a tax rate that was more in line with previous norms for the size and mix of our business.
And our balance sheet reflects solid liquidity positive cash flows and cash balances that are significantly improved over the same period last year.
At year-end we reported that we expected our new awards would be more evenly distributed over 2010.
With further scoping and pre-contract planning for a very large oil sands project in Canada has pushed that curve somewhat to the right with the timing of that project now expected to be added to our backlog in the second quarter.
The remainder of the year is still anticipated to be well within the new award guidance range we provided for the year of $3.5 billion to $5.5 billion.
The new awards for the first three months of this year included a gas processing plant for Pluto's Petrol in Peru; a significant increase in the feedwork for the cash again full field development for Shell along with our JV partners Aker Solutions and WorleyParsons.
It also included topside engineering for the Goliad FPSO project for Hyundai which is providing overall engineering services for ENI and Statoil in Norway for the first oil development in the Norwegian sector of the Barents Sea.
And a contract in Lummus Technology for the license and process design of a grassroots petrochemical plant in China among others that Dan will discuss.
We also announced the successful completion of two major projects in the first quarter including the engineering procurement and construction of the multibillion-dollar ethylene cracker in Singapore for Shell in combination with our JV partner Toyo.
This project at peak employed over 12 000 workers with one of the best safety records of any major project in the world.
We also completed the South Hook LNG regasification terminal in Wales for Exxon Mobil and Qatar Petroleum having offloaded over 64 cargoes of LNG during what was an outstanding startup and commissioning phase of this $1 billion-plus facility.
Geographically at least outside of the US the energy world is very much open for business.
And we're tracking tens of billions of dollars of identified opportunities in our end markets.
But the competition is as strong as we've ever seen not only from the Koreans but from European Indian and other Asian companies who have significantly grown their capabilities over the past five years and now compete head-to-head with major US firms on EPC energy projects and large tank installations particularly those projects for national oil companies where price is the absolute differentiator.
On major EPC projects for international and large integrated oil companies we still see very competitive pricing driven by improved stability in the cost of equipment commodities and labor.
But these owners also consider experience safety reliability and resource capability as heavily-weighted factors in their capital project decisions.
In these competitions the win ratios are much higher for us and have historically been in the 50% to 60% probability range.
Our win rates for these EPC projects will be influenced by our strong international presence our ability to compete both on a reimbursable or lump sum basis and our diverse mix of technical and project talent who are experienced in virtually every aspect of the energy infrastructure business.
In steel blade structures we're clearly a market leader and very competitive on large multiple tank installations as well as single storage tanks for everything from water LNG and various fuels and other refined products around the world.
Although the US is lagging our global markets are very active for LNG tanks crude oil terminals and a variety of other storage opportunities.
And of course Lummus Technology continues to be a leader in providing proprietary technology around the world and continues to return high margins in regions of the world where a variety of owners are still investing in refining petrochemical and gas processing expansions.
Lummus Technology focuses on many national companies in areas like China Russia and the Middle East who needs our expertise for major refining and petrochemical expansions.
Therefore we remain confident in our 2010 guidance.
With the ramping up of a significant number of new projects combined with our positive outlook for Lummus Technology we expect that the company will have a solid year and good opportunities to further increase backlog in 2011.
We also expect to sustain our margins through consistent project performance and our ability to win new work particularly in LNG storage and a broad mix of refining and petrochemical opportunities.
I'll now turn the call over to Lasse Petterson for a discussion of our CB&amp;I Lummus and steel plated structures business sectors.
Lasse? Good afternoon.
I'll keep my comments brief but wanted to provide highlights on some of the major projects in our backlog which totaled $6.9 billion as of March 31st.
Let me start in South America where the Quintero LNG project in Chile is on schedule for final completion early in the third quarter.
As reported the plan is to deliver gas to Chile since August of last year.
The first of the 155 000 cubic meter permanent storage tanks is now in operation and the second is currently being hydro tested.
Construction of the Peru LNG liquefaction plant is essentially complete and the project is currently moving through commissioning and startup.
Cool-down will commence shortly.
The project is on schedule to deliver the first cargo LNG later this quarter.
Our major EPC contract for REFICAR's refinery expansion project in Colombia is progressing well.
Engineering and procurement are underway the site preparation is ongoing and we will begin driving piles for the process units in June.
Early works materials started to arrive at site.
In the US and Caribbean we are completing several large refinery modification and upgrade projects which are all proceeding according to plan.
Our steel plate structure sector is seeing increased activity in the elevated tank segment and the storage terminal projects in the region are all progressing well.
In Canada we continue to work on engineering and assisted procurement on the Kearl oil sands project and hope to soon sign an EPC contract defining an expanded scope on this project.
On the Isle of Grain Phase 3 project in the UK we recently successfully completed a pneumatic test over the fourth and final tank.
All welding is essentially finished and we are currently completing the electrical and instrumentation and installation work.
The project is scheduled to be completed late this year.
The South Hook project is now demobilized.
As Phil mentioned the facility has received 64 shipped cargoes for LNG since startup and has operated at capacity to the client's full satisfaction.
Work on the top size design for the Goliat FPSO project is progressing well.
We announced in February that CB&amp;I was selected by Hyundai Heavy Industries to provide engineering services for this project in the Norwegian sector of the Barents Sea.
In the Middle East we are working on numerous Steel Plate Structures project which are very diverse in terms of project sites.
We've been successful at capturing subcontracts for storage tank projects from some of the Korean companies performing EPC work in the region all of which will be included in backlog in the second quarter.
The GASCO low-temperature storage tank project for Takreer in Abu Dhabi is progressing through engineering and procurement according to plan.
Our part of the Pearl Gas to Liquids projects for Shell in Qatar is nearing completion.
Commissioning is underway with final completion later this summer.
And in China the second phase of the Fujian LNG project is progressing ahead of schedule.
We recently successfully air-raised the roofs of the 260 000 cubic meter LNG tanks and currently we are in the process of pouring the concrete for the outer roofs.
In Singapore per our recent announcement the Shell ECC Cracker project has successfully started up and we are in the process of demobilizing the site.
Our EPC gas plant project for Exxon in Papua New Guinea is ramping up.
The project management team has assembled in our Brisbane office and engineering is well underway in our Singapore offices.
Similarly the Gorgon LNG storage tank project for Chevron in Australia is also in the design phase and engineering is about 40% complete.
In closing I would like to mention that we are currently involved in several preliminary engineering and FEED studies which we anticipate will lead to EPC contracts for both storage terminals and LNG liquefaction projects.
And that concludes my remarks.
Phil? Thank you Lasse.
Now Dan McCarthy will report on Lummus Technology.
Dan? Okay.
Thank you Phil and good afternoon to everyone.
Lummus Technology's sales momentum continued through the first quarter with new awards coming in at about $100 million.
Approximately 40% of these awards came from our heat transfer business and the remainder from our licensing and catalytic sales activities.
Our significant project awards in the first quarter include the delayed coking heater for the Reficar refinery expansion project in Colombia.
Crude and vacuum refinery heaters for a project in Saudi; an ethylene project for Honam Petrochemical in South Korean a natural gas treating plant in Saudi Arabia and a styrene project in Thailand.
The heat transfer sales skewed the industry profile for our first quarter awards towards oil refining projects.
However in these sales we are providing equipment to contractors for projects that have been underway for awhile.
We do not see significant new investment commitments in the refining industry in the first quarter.
For us the new project starts which are reflected in our process licensing activities are heavily weighted towards petrochemicals.
As we look out through the rest of the year we believe that petrochemicals and natural gas processing will generate the best opportunities for us.
Our research shows that petrochemical demand is rebounding faster than previously predicted.
In fact this month we received word from two clients that they are restarting projects that were postponed in 2009.
The refining side will return slowly.
Demand for energy is growing but refining margins are pinched by over-capacity.
Nevertheless we believe there will be pockets of activity in the second half of the year especially in hydro processing where our Chevron/Lummus joint venture is a market leader.
From a regional perspective we had good success in the first quarter in the Middle East South America and Asia Pacific and anticipate that these regions will be important markets for the remainder of the year.
In addition we are focused on China and the former Soviet Union as these regions have significant investment plans.
While the development of projects in these latter regions have been slower than expected for a variety of reasons we believe that they are now poised for release in 2010.
I'll turn it back to Phil.
Thank you Dan.
I will now ask Ron to summarize this quarter's financial results.
Ron? Thanks Phil and good afternoon everyone.
With that overview of our major activities around the world let me take you through the financial information which was included in our earnings release.
Revenues for the first quarter was $869 million down from $1.2 billion in the first quarter of 2009.
The revenue decline was consistent with our expectations and with our full-year revenue guidance of $3.9 billion to $4.2 billion.
As we described in our year-end earnings call the industry new awards slowdown in late 2008 and early 2009 combined with the engineering and ramp up phases of our large late-2009 new awards and the anticipated completion of our large LNG projects in the first half of 2010 caused a bit of an unusual short-term revenue trend giving our beginning of the year backlog in excess of $7.2 billion.
On a macro basis the anticipated 2010 decline in LNG revenues exceed the estimated incremental revenues from the ramp up of our four large awards in the back half of 2009.
The balance of the revenue declines reflect lower revenues from the North America refining market demand which the industry has experienced since early 2008.
I'll come back and discuss changes in our revenue by business sector in a moment.
Our consolidated gross profit for the quarter was $122 million or 14.1% up from 12.3% and 11.1% in the fourth quarter and first quarters of 2009.
The current quarter reflects the strongest consolidated quarterly gross profit percentage since expanding our business outside the traditional tank business in the early 2000's.
The first quarter gross profit rate benefited from solid execution a favorable mix of projects and a greater percentage of our revenues coming from our higher margin businesses the Lummus Technology sector and the steel plate structure sector.
Selling and administrative expenses remain well-controlled down $8 million or 13% over the comparable period.
Consistent with past years the first quarter had a greater amount of stock-based compensation costs due to the retiree eligible provisions of the accounting rules.
This accounting requirement adds approximately $0.05 per share of incremental stock-based compensation cost to our first quarter compared to each of the remaining 2010 quarters.
First quarter income from operations was $69 million or a strong 7.9% of revenues compared to $80 million in the first quarter of 2009 which was driven by revenues of almost $1.3 billion.
Our income tax rate for the quarter was 32% consistent with the 30% to 33% range discussed in our February call.
The summation of all that results in a first quarter net income of $42 million or $0.42 per diluted share.
EBITDA totaled $88 million for the quarter or over 10% of revenues and $381 million or 9.2% of revenues for the trailing four quarters.
Now let me take you through the sector's first quarter results.
Phil spoke to our new awards and prospect activity.
I'll provide some overall comments around these issues.
Our new awards for the first quarter totaled $560 million compared to 611 for 2009.
We had two awards in the quarter between 40 and $50 million with the balance being smaller awards spread nicely between our sectors project types and geographically.
We continue to track several new award opportunities which are consistent with our 2009 new award guidance which is 4.0 to $4.5 billion.
Steel Plate Structure reported first quarter 2010 revenues of 335 million compared to 420 million in 2009.
The decrease of 85 million is attributable to lower activity in the oil sands related work in Canada and the wind-down of LNG tank work in the Asia-Pacific region.
This revenue decline was partially offset by a greater volume of tank-related work in Central America.
Operating income totaled $32 million or 9.6% of revenues compared to 28 million or 6.8% of revenues in 2009.
The increases in operating margins reflect a favorable mix of flat bottom storage tank work around the world in 2010.
Additionally the first quarter of 2009 included restructuring charges to consolidate fabrication facilities in the United States and higher pre-contract activity related to several large SDS project bids in the first half of 2009.
CB&amp;I Lummus revenues totaled 466 million in 2010 down 326 million from 795 in 2009.
There are a couple of items driving this net change.
The most significant revenue decline is the result of a wind-down in 2010 completion of our large LNG projects and U.S.
refinery work.
This decline was slightly offset by startup revenues from our major awards in the last half of 2009.
Both the REFICAR refinery work and the PNG projects are off to a good start with higher revenue burn expected in late 2010 and into 2011 and beyond.
Income from operations totaled $19 million or 4.1% of revenues in the first quarter of 2010 compared to 34 million or 4.3% in 2009.
Our CB&amp;I Lummus sector carries a higher relative percentage of fixed costs than our other two sectors.
Accordingly the 40% plus decline in quarter-over-quarter revenues results in a greater downward pressure on CB&amp;I Lummus operating margins.
This metric will improve as the large backlog projects move out of the engineering focus phase.
Finally our Lummus Technology revenues and operating results reflect some important project mix changes.
Dan previously mentioned the current relative strength of the petrochemical industry compared to that of refining.
For Lummus Technology the impact of this market results is a lower joint venture results which primarily reflect refining activities and higher consolidated licensing revenues and gross margins reflecting the strength of the petrochemical market.
Additionally the lower first quarter 2000 – lower first quarter 2000 heat transfer revenues were partially offset by higher licensing revenues which carry higher margins.
Those factors resulted in a strong operating margin of 25% in 2010 compared to 22% in 2009.
Now a few comments on our balance sheet and cash flow.
Our balance sheet and liquidity remains strong with a cash balance of $337 million no revolver borrowings and cash net of debt of $216 million.
The cash net of debt is up from $205 million at the beginning of the year in an improvement of almost $350 million from March 31 2009.
Our investment and contract capital reflecting the combination of the balance of the receivable contracts in process and accounts payable stands at a negative $648 million at the end of the quarter compared to $682 million at year-end.
Free cash flow totaled $50 million for the quarter compared to a negative $37 million in the first quarter of 2009.
In closing our strong backlog and financial position provide us with the necessary financial flexibility to deliver our projects to our owners take advantage of the energy market demands for our services and pursue internal and acquisition opportunities to grow our Company.
Phil? Thank you Ron.
Before I open the call for questions just a correction.
I misspoke during my comments on the new award in guidance which is as Ron correctly stated $4 billion to $4.5 billion range.
So with that let's open the call for your questions.
(Operator instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Scott Levine with JPMorgan.
Hello Scott.
How are you doing? Phil.
Good.
A question on the competition.
Would you characterize the competition in the marketplace in general as intensifying or stable at intense levels? And you mentioned Europeans as a source of competition – is that a relatively new development? Or how would you characterize changing the competitive landscape versus three six months ago? Yes I think I'd characterize it as more intense.
As I stated I think we've seen several companies over the last several years benefit from the high demand in the industry particularly in the refining and petrochemical markets particularly in the Middle East.
Companies and Europeans and I'll just name a couple but certainly you always have Technip and Saipem but certainly companies like Petrofac and Technosurianitas [ph] who have gotten very substantial.
I think the Koreans we've talked about virtually every quarter for the last year as well as the Japanese competition.
And on the tank side certainly you see Indian companies such as Punj Lloyd and Larsen and Toubro be very substantial in their competition particularly in the Middle East.
And I don't see that – I don't necessarily see that diminishing any time soon.
So I don't know if you guys mentioned the 10% to 12% gross margins that you've talked about historically.
How should we thinking about that going forward in light of –? Well that's the bandwidth that we think is still a good target at the 14%; there's no particular anomalies associated with that.
It's just good backlog performance.
We want to see that kind of return as I mentioned in my comments from our business model.
And – but certainly we see pressure from competition all around the world in various end markets.
I will say that there is a difference in markets when you're talking about national companies who see price as the key differentiator versus large international integrated oil companies on their projects who carry a higher weighted value on some of the qualitative aspects of companies considering their resume and safety and reliability.
So we do see that difference.
In those projects especially CB&amp;I as well as other Western contractors are very competitive.
One last one then if I may.
We've seen a jump in iron ore prices and expect the increases in steel.
Can you talk maybe about risk mitigation strategies there or how that may factor into either the thought process for customers moving forward with projects and/or risk mitigation given the current competitive landscape? Yes we've seen those increases about $100 a ton I think in steel prices.
We've seen increases in things like air coolers and exchanges rotating equipment various other aspects in commodities in our projects.
The key difference now versus a couple of years ago is less volatility.
I mean we have seen increases but it's more of a gradual increase as opposed to extremely volatile market.
So we can anticipate that in our pricing.
So we have not seen any negative impact on our current projects.
We build that volatility pricing into our bids and we don't carry any exposure for that.
But we have seen the prices increase particularly in iron ore and coking globally and increasing steel costs about $100 per ton I think.
And I think that's probably going to increase maybe perhaps up to $120 per ton sometime this summer.
Very well thank you Thank you Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
Good evening guys.
Phil if I could follow-up on that last question.
Do you think that the pricing or the margins that you're going to put into backlog from the new awards that you're going to put into backlog this year is similar to what you're reporting in revenue? In other words are the markets sort of stable in what you can win? Or is the competition still hurting margins? Well you have to really break these major projects down into components Andy.
If you're looking at the type of competition we're facing in the Middle East for example we've lost a couple of big jobs over there.
So we've had a chance to do quite a bit of analysis primarily on that large tank job in Dubai [ph] for example and the recent events at Yanbu before the Conoco change.
But we've had a chance to take a look at that.
And if you look at engineering for example 12% 15% of the total cost I think Western contractors certainly CB&amp;I can certainly be competitive in that environment given our ability to affect lower cost engineering alternatives and I think a greater efficiency in those most instances and lower man-hours.
We looked at the supply side of that equation and if you compare it against the Koreans and even assume that there may be some local pricing within Korea that they can take advantage of it.
When you look at the rest of the marketplace though they really can't affect their pricing to the point where we see the kind of spreads that we're seeing in these large jobs.
So it really comes down I think in many cases just to the differences in perhaps margins perhaps overheads and certainly I think most importantly the risk premiums that we would insist on applying to what we think are very difficult terms in some cases in the Middle East.
So you have to take that all into consideration.
But we're not sitting on the sidelines.
We're going to address those components and we'll continue to compete in that but I think that low cost model compared to the increasing cost of commodities and equipment and labor around the world is not a sustainable situation.
So we'll see how that will play out over the course of this next year or two.
I understand so – but let me ask you more specifically.
The new awards that you put into the backlog this quarter were they similar in sort of margins as what you are reporting in revenue now? Absolutely absolutely.
That was – I could have given you an easier answer than I gave you but absolutely.
We haven't seen any real pressure on that margin.
The issue is – the point is that we're being selective on those projects where you have an opportunity to sustain higher margins and perform against higher margins.
Okay that's fine.
And just my follow-up is on the sales I mean you had telegraphed well that sales would be lower especially in the first half of the year.
But I think they're still lower than some of us were thinking.
Did the big four are they ramping up more slowly than you would expect? Or is it just a case of that they really are very heavily weighted to the back half of the year and we should not expect sales will sort of – in order to make your guidance for instance you need a decent ramp-up in the second half of the year.
Yes.
I think particularly the one project that I mentioned in oil sands that has taken longer than we expected due to client preferences for more scoping and pricing so.
But we do expect to book that job in the second quarter and we'll get on tracks there.
But I think the important thing is that 560 million as we've also discussed is an important number relative to just what we see as a run rate in addition to the major projects we anticipate for the rest of the year.
So we think we're on track.
I'm not going to tell you it's going to be a hockey stick yet to the back half of the year but it's really a function of timing not delay our cancellations.
I would add.
Andy in the year-end call we talked about delta on these revenue in 2010 versus 2009 of our major LNG awards is almost $1 billion.
So it takes a lot of ramp-up to recover that quickly.
So we're pretty much on plan on all that.
Okay guys.
I'll get back in queue.
Thank you.
Thanks Andy.
Your next question comes from the line of Graham Mattison with Lazard Capital Markets.
Hello Graham.
Hi I was just wondering if you could give a time following up on the oil sands your outlook for additional workup there beyond the one project that you were talking about in terms – do you see that market really starting to pick up or sort of give your outlook there? Well I think the project that we're involved in is arguably one of the most viable projects going forward.
And I think there has been discussion among the owner group and publicly about multiple phases on that project.
So Lasse do you want to add to that? Yes.
We see some increased activity in the oil sands.
There's also other clients who are starting to invite bids and tender for the early phase engineering.
So we see that the oil sands is – we expect the oil sands to come back going forward.
Could we start to see that sort of in the second half of 2010? Or is that more an ’11 ’12 type of...? I would say it's more ’11 ’12.
But our activity in that area will certainly on this large project that we're involved in increased this year.
And then just turning to floating LNG projects.
I'm just wondering if you could just give your outlook for that market there and any potential opportunities for you there.
I know it's something you talked about in the past.
I'll let Dan talk about that.
The floating LNG market is one that's developing.
It's sort of like an S curve I guess it's in the early stages.
There’s a lot of opportunity for that.
And so we're working various solutions various customers to position ourselves.
And most of it right now is sort of FEED work.
I think that – it's study work and FEED work.
And I think that the real projects will come about in a couple of years.
Okay great.
I'll jump back in queue.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Hello Jamie.
Hi I was – I know everyone's focused on margins over the I mean over the long-term but I was impressed with your margins in the quarter the 14% gross margin; haven't seen in a long time and you’re about an 8% sort of operating margin.
I don't think I heard anything that was a one-time positive.
I just want to confirm that.
And is there any benefit going on? We've heard from some other fixed price contractors there's a benefit of lower material costs right now.
So I'm wondering if you're seeing any of that benefit.
No I wouldn't say it's a result of buy-down one-time events.
We certainly would have told you that.
Again as you well know we've been focused on this bottom line performance for awhile.
And I think just the basic business model the construct and the characteristics of our sectors are paying dividends in terms of return on the margin levels.
And that's what we had hoped would certainly occur and that's what we want to occur.
And so I think we're seeing the benefits of that.
And we don't see anything in project performance that would dilute those margins.
And certainly it's our intent to keep them within that bandwidth we've talked about.
We didn't see any ups – any big ups or any big downs in the quarter.
So it was just like we like it.
Okay.
Well congratulations on that front.
And then just a follow-up question.
Another reason – when we thought about your margin performance for 2010 relative to where we were last year and last year we had the charges which we don't have this year one of the things that you cited was just more cost-plus work that gets burned through.
I'm assuming that hasn't changed but on the projects that you're bidding on today too are you seeing any material change from fixed price to cost-plus relative to what you were initially anticipating? Well our mix is still around 50/50 between some type of reimbursable contract and what we consider as lump sum turnkey primarily in our steel plate structure.
That market has not changed.
The steel plate structure market will continue to be a predominantly fixed price environment.
And the refining petrochemical LNG that's pretty much a mixed bag.
But I think we are seeing perhaps more of a mix where we may have to fix certain components of the job but certainly relative to some of the supply and the construction we've taken a view that we're going to be very very selective on those type of opportunities than we have been.
And I think in many cases the owners have looked at more of a mix-type contract than we've seen before – especially in the LNG and on the refining petrochemical side.
The only exception there again I'd say regionally would be the Middle East where that still continues for the most part to be a fixed price environment.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up question.
Phil any thoughts here on cash or any accelerated interest in sort of smaller M&amp;A activity relative to where we were sort of six months ago? It's really the same.
We've got our eye on several opportunities that we can look at relative to growing our technology business.
Certainly we think there's some interesting opportunities perhaps in the CB&amp;I Lummus arena.
But we continue to grow our cash balances and look for those opportunities but nothing to talk about today.
All right great.
I'll get back in queue.
Congrats.
Thanks Jamie.
Hi Martin.
I was wondering could you talk a little bit about if you're seeing any opportunities in the gas processing facility market in the US? Sure.
Dan do you want to talk about that? Yes I'd be glad to.
We definitely are seeing gas processing projects being developed around the shale gas that is under development in the Marcellus region and other places in the United States.
These projects – so we've had a particular high level of inquiries.
We're doing some feed projects so that there's not a full commitment to go forward but we anticipate that will be a big part of the rest of the year for us.
And I'm sorry if I missed it did you give the percentage of your backlog that's outside the US? No I didn't Marty but I'll tell you that our current backlog is over 70% of work outside the US.
Our new awards last year I think was over 90% of work outside the US.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Dudas with Jefferies.
Hello Michael.
Good evening everyone.
I know you're going to miss talking about South Hook going forward.
I am.
I'll hold back the tears [ph].
First question when you talked earlier in your prepared remarks Phil about the competition angle when you're looking at your bid list and what your expectations are what percent of those projects are the ones where you have the 50% to 60% win ratio? And which ones are you may be less confident because of the added competition? I guess I'm thinking this is more CB&amp;I Lummus as opposed to steel plate structure but correct me if I'm wrong.
No you're correct.
That's the issue.
I would say when you look at that 50% to 60% that's predominantly with the type of clients that I described.
When you look at for example projects in the Middle East or other regions where it's predominantly tendered by national companies I'd have to handicap that down to around 20% to 30%.
So that's more of a price competition and one in an area that we have to be very cautious.
Now we're looking at a variety of ways to approach that and the components that I talked about with Andy's question but also looking at more joint ventures and collaborations to try to either mitigate risks or reduce costs and be more competitive.
My follow-up Phil is you indicated about steel price increases that you're seeing and probably expect as we move into the summer.
When you think about steel craft labor fabrication capacity et cetera foundry time would you say that the commodity costs and pricing levels for projects for your clients has bottomed and will only move up going forward? And if that's the case will that influence some of the decisions your clients are putting through given the delays they have seen over the last year? No I think certainly the clients have great visibility into these pricing the supply pricing and particularly around steel and alloys and other major components.
But we haven't seen the price of steel rise to the point where it's starting to threaten the viability or the economics of any projects.
A lot of that is changing as a result of some of the big mining companies changing their pricing agreements to quarterly contracts or you see a lot of volatility in that.
But even with the $100 to $120 a ton increase we expect to see out this summer we haven't seen them threaten again the economics of the projects at least the ones we're chasing.
So I don't think China is a factor.
They're concentrating their steel primarily on the domestic growth so we don't see that necessarily factor in the marketplace.
All right.
Thank you Phil.
Thank you Mike.
Your next question comes from the line of Avi Fisher with BMO Capital Markets.
Hi good evening.
Thanks for taking my questions.
You were talking about the heat transfer equipment in the Lummus Technology I just wanted to make sure I understood 40% – did you say that 40% of bookings in Lummus Tech was for heat transfer equipment? That's correct.
These are large fired heaters primarily.
And how long does it take for that backlog to burn typically? About 18 months.
Okay.
And that's typically most of that's a pass-through cost if I recall? I'm not sure I saw what you mean by pass-through costs.
And I think you alluded to this on the call – We don't fabricate that's what you mean we do not fabricate.
But this is – is this a lower margin product on the licensing? Is that what Phil was talking about (inaudible) –? Yes.
Absolutely.
I mean this supply business is sort of a margin on the supply a fixed fee on a supply contract.
So there's no license technology component to the pricing.
We said historically.
It looks like DPC business they are historical business margins.
Right.
Thanks for the color.
I would say a little higher than that but still – Gross margins sorry.
But Avi I think you raised a good point because when you look at we want you to look at the individual components in the sectors and that's probably in Dan's business in Lummus Technology where you've got to be – we've got to draw your attention to any variability in that market.
Because that's where it's going to occur.
Because we traditionally obviously can recover great margins in the technology business but a large heat transferred job will skew the new awards as well as some dilution on the margins.
So it's not necessarily representative of Lummus Technology as a whole.
Would you agree Dan? No that's – yes.
Absolutely correct.
Okay.
Okay.
And you were alluding – I think Phil was – I'm sorry Ron was alluding to this also in terms of the changes in the equity earnings and the minority interest as a result of this? Well not the minority interests.
The equity earnings come from our two JVs that are predominantly in the refining businesses.
So with the slowness in that side that Dan talked about if you just looked at our income statement most of that equity earnings is Lummus Technology related.
However in total Lummus operating income was up and that's really attributable to the higher licensing revenues this quarter primarily from petrochemicals and lower heat transfer revenues which drive the GP down.
Got you.
Okay I appreciate the further details there.
Although I did see that CDTECH had won some an award in Russia.
Is that something that should buoy some of the equity earnings going forward? Yes.
When we look at the equity earnings there's really two joint ventures.
And CDTECH is involved in smaller projects that still seem to be going forward.
And so they're running closer above plan actually.
And CLG which does all these large hydro processing projects they're the one that's slipping a little bit because the investments are so high and the margins in these refineries are tight.
Okay.
Thanks for the details there.
Your CapEx was a bit lower than I had expected and I was wondering if there's any change to your CapEx guidance.
I think you previously said? No.
The guidance remains as it is.
When you think about it it's really a reflection of what we're talking about.
The large LNG jobs aren't demanding any new CapEx; they're coming down.
The equipment is coming back into our yards and the big new projects are in the engineering phase.
So this would be the low point of our CapEx cycle.
Okay.
And I'd have to say it's also the difference in our mix of projects too was a higher component of reimbursable work.
Absolutely.
So should the CapEx ramp as the big projects ramp? Is that going to –? There will be more spending in the back half than the front half as we get some of these projects moving up but still within the guidance though.
In line with the increased revenues in the back half then (inaudible)? That's a good way to put it.
Yes.
Okay.
And is interest expense still mostly an amortization of prior financing costs or I'd be interested in (inaudible) – That together with $120 million of fixed debt we still have out there from the Lummus transaction.
So what should we think about interest expense going forward? Just a slight decline quarter-over-quarter or? I would look at it.
There aren't any changes in that until we make another $40 million payment at the end of the year.
And your guess is as good as mine on the banking costs.
They're not going down.
Okay.
Thanks for the details.
Your next question comes from the line of Barry Bannister with Stifel Nicolaus.
Hi Barry.
Hi compared to the rest of the Company the Lummus EPC business margin really didn't get any lift.
Was there any Golden Pass zero margin revenue in the quarter and if so how much? Are there any legacy Lummus ENC business revenues such as Westlake or Viondell [ph] or SR still in there that may be diluting? Nothing to move the needle Barry.
I think if you look at the EPC business the CB&amp;I and Lummus business and comp it against those in our peers the margins are right in line with what we would expect from that business.
No major component – no major factor which moves the needle there.
And the only thing I'd point out is as I mentioned that the revenue decline is most severe in that business and they carry the highest costs – so highest fix related costs.
So if you just – if you only – the only fixed cost you had was S&amp;A even though we've taken S&amp;A down by 15% during the quarters as a percent of revenue if you just spread that evenly across the sectors that would be a 1.5 give or take downward pressure on operating margins there.
So the size matters in that business.
You did about $58 million free cash in just the first quarter alone.
What is your goal for 2010 for both free cash and the reduction of the $682 million contract capital deficit? Well our contract capital deficit will move with our backlog.
That's – we've seen that go in.
The only change was when we had our challenges with our UK projects that required us to take some accruals.
So beyond that I would look for that to move.
So the decline a little bit of a decline $37 million dollars in the quarter was pretty much as expected.
And if we achieve our revenue and our new award guidance we would expect to trend give or take the relationship that we've seen in the past.
Free cash? Free cash? Free cash – it should be pretty consistent with last year.
It's really all about contract capital and the reliability of revenues and new awards.
Everything else should trend along.
And then lastly before I hop off the ATM offer have you completed that? Are we looking at share count leveling at about $101 million and should the tax rates stay around 32%? Let's do ATM first.
We have been out of the market in the first quarter and we'll only go back in for growth money.
As you may recall we started the program in August of last year with the express purpose of having funds to continue to look at that growth internal and acquisition related.
We raised about $40 million last year.
Once it was clear that the market was performing like we thought it was we shut the program off.
And it will stay turned off until we talk more about opportunities or spend some money on transactions.
Sorry second part of your question was what Barry? Percent? Didn't hear it sorry.
Tax rate.
Oh I'm sorry.
Yes the tax rate should remain in the low 30s.
Was there a special reason why it was 32% and not 33% this quarter? Just the geographic mix of income.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks Barry.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Hello John.
Hi good afternoon.
Just following up on the last question I just want to make sure I got that right Ron.
In terms of the cash as you sign some of these projects or contracts through the year you're still expecting to collect upfront cash on these all of the terms you've seen in the years past? Correct.
Particularly the lump sum business.
Okay.
And then any pressure to change that in the current pricing environment? No I don't think so.
I think the focus historically has been on the ultimate price.
And beyond that most of our owners realize that we're not interested in working on our own money for these projects.
And we have mechanisms it's either breakeven on much of the cost of reimbursables' business or remain cash positive on the lump sum work.
Okay.
And then just in terms of the nuclear containment vessel work what you have now included for that? Have in what sense? What we currently have in backlog? Yes in backlog and the opportunities out there I know it's still pretty.
Yes we've talked about that.
It's been a bit more – a bit sluggish than we really anticipated when we started looking at that.
We've got four orders that we – Right around $300 million in backlog $350 million.
There is some potential new work in front of us that we would hope would be awarded second quarter and we'll just wait to see how that plays out.
Beyond that I think it's going to be somewhat sluggish going forward throughout the remainder of this year.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you At this time we have reached the allotted time for questions.
I would like to turn it back over to management for closing remarks.
Stephanie we had one more gentleman on the queue.
Would you like to let him ask his question? One moment sir.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
Hi Andy.
I think Brian Uhlmer was on there but I think he hung up.
So one more question.
Thanks for taking my follow-up then.
Just real quickly Lasse had mentioned something I thought was interesting.
You talked about feed work for LNG liquefaction.
And he had also talked about some storage work that you were going to win or had won in 2Q from the Korean guys.
So can you talk about – are these decent sized projects for the Korean guys? And then on the LNG liquefaction what regions of the world are you focused on for LNG liquefaction opportunities? Well as far as some of the tank work the LNG tank work as you know most of those are re-gas or liquefactions are in the hundreds of millions of dollars as opportunities even just tanks themselves.
We do see opportunities globally for that.
The liquefaction we've seen some opportunities I'd say in some of the more non-traditional regions where we tend to do very well.
And we'll be talking more about that in the second quarter early second quarter.
All right I won't press you.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Well I think that concludes our questions today and we'd just to like to thank you all for your time.
That will conclude our call.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Holly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Chicago Bridge and Iron Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Before beginning today's call the company would like you to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the Company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions that company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company's press release and SEC filings while forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of Chicago Bridge and Iron.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we report Chicago Bridge and Iron's results for the second quarter 2012.
With me today are CB&amp;I's Chief Operating Officer Lasse Petterson who will report on our project engineering and construction and Steel Plate Structure sectors.
Dan McCarthy President of Lummus Technology reporting on the sector's result and outlook and our Chief Financial Officer Ron Ballschmiede who will discuss our second quarter financial performance and outlook for the year.
We will then open the call for your questions.
I am pleased to report that second quarter results were strong across the entire business with backlog and net income reaching an all time high compared to any previous quarter since the company went public in 1997.
Our new awards for the quarter were a mix of announced projects of over $500 million.
Growth on existing projects of nearly $750 million with another $600 million of smaller underpinning works spread across the three business sectors.
We also got off to a great start for the third quarter by a recent announcement of the $225 million (inaudible) project in New South Wales Australia.
The backlog which now exceeds $10 billion is long term and durable.
We have the opportunity in front of us to significantly grow the backlog with potential awards to some very meaningful projects over the next year as LNG development in Australia and the United States move forward and new regions particularly East Africa started getting some traction.
The same thing could be said about the burgeoning gas process and petrochemical businesses in the U.S.
and increasing engineering opportunities in offshore pipelines and new opportunities for our global tank and storage business.
But in all the excitement around the mega projects and developing end markets I want to highlight the outstanding performance of Lummus Technology.
Driven by some very important new awards this quarter totaling over $300 million and producing 25% on income from operations this sector continues to underpin our income stream cash flows while providing critical visibility into future energy CapEx and opportunities around the world.
Dan will give you the detail in a minute.
I am also pleased to report that we continue to record outstanding safety performance around the world.
Year-to-date and on nearly $40 million man hours at work CB&amp;I remains in the top tier of one of the safest companies in the industry and as I have repeatedly said we are firm in our belief that our relentless focus on safety as a primary core value and our goal of 'Nobody Gets Hurt' at CB&amp;I is not only a tremendous competitive advantage but drives recruiting retention and client confidence and most importantly it's just the right thing to do for our employees.
Now as we have done in previous years we take the same quarter report as an opportunity to calibrate our guidance given the increased visibility into our current backlog and potential new awards and I am pleased to report that we see the year unfolding as we had projected in our original guidance last November.
In addition to engineering and construction awards we are experiencing tremendous results from technology steel plate structures engineering awards and significant growth on existing projects which when consolidated have a meaningful impact on the quarter and our outlook for the year.
So we are reaffirming our new awards guidance for the year of $5.5 billion to $7 billion and have narrowed the range for revenue to $5.4 billion to $5.6 billion and earnings per share to $2.85 to $3.05.
So I will ask Lasse and Dan to walk you around the backlog and new awards and then Ron will summarize the financial reports.
Lasse? Thank you Phil.
Good afternoon.
As in the last earnings call I gave my comments on some trends in our key markets including the new awards this quarter and then provide a brief update on some of our larger ongoing projects.
Global market trends are positive in all our seven primary end markets.
As reported last quarter the LNG trade is projected to continue growing at a rate twice as fast as natural gas production but the LNG portion of gas supply forecasted to increase approximately 20% over the next two decades.
This will provide us with good EPC product opportunities and we have positioned CB&amp;I well for this EPC contracts by winning and executing six LNG liquefaction FEED studies the last year.
In the second quarter we completed the Browse and Arrow FEEDs for Australia.
On Browse we also completed our full EPC tender for the onshore development that James Price Point invested in Australia and our client Woodside has confirmed fourth quarter 2012 for the selection of their EPC contract for Browse.
You have probably seen that Browse had an EPA approval last week.
On Arrow we will compile an EPC tender to be complete first half of 2013 with EPC contract selection following in the second half of next year.
We also completed the Yamal FEED for the full onshore development on the Yamal peninsula in the North of Russia.
Our client NOVATEK has issued their call for tender for the EPC development which is due later this year with planned award end of fourth quarter.
It was recently reported in Russian business press that the Russian government would invest in a private-public partnership for the dredging and marine facilities at Sabetta which is key to the Yamal LNG project.
In North America shale gas production and low gas prices that resulted at a number of LNG import terminals planned to be converted to export terminals.
We are in the midst of executing the LNG FEED studies for the conversion of the terminals in Freeport and ECHO Point.
We are also following LNG opportunities in Western Canada and in East Africa where we have submitted a tender for a FEED study for a multi-train development by Anadarko in Mozambique.
The shale gas production with liquids rich gas has also resulted in a surge of new petrochemical projects in the U.S.
We have been awarded contracts from both Williams and Westlake for ethylene production expansion.
For the Williams we won a contract valued in excess of $300 million for revamping their existing Williams ethylene complex in Geismar Louisiana.
The expansion will increase the olefins plant capacity from 1.3 billion pounds per year to 1.9 billion.
For Westlake we are installing new capacity at the Westlake Petrochemical Complex in Sulphur Louisiana.
The market for petrochemicals is also increasing in Russia where we have been awarded a $40 million ethylene FEED contract for [MKNK].
The offshore oil and gas market is continuing to be strong with large developments planned particularly in Brazil and in the North Sea.
In the quarter we were awarded a contract by Talisman for the topsides and the bridge linked platform details assigned for the Montrose Field in the UK sector which adds nicely to the award of the Luva Topsides FEED that we announced in last quarter.
In Malaysia we were awarded a contract to develop a FEED study and an EPC tender for a floating LNG facility for PETRONAS.
In Canada we were awarded an additional contract in excess of $300 million for supply of the interconnecting modules for the Kearl Oil Sands Project and we will tender for the subsequent installation later this year.
New awards in the quarter totaled $1.8 billion which increased our backlog to above $10 billion with a good mix between reimbursable and lump sum contracts.
In addition to the new contract awards as mentioned we had scope adjustments on existing projects in excess of $750 million.
We announced yesterday a good start to the third quarter with award of a contract valued at $225 million for a peak sharing facility in Tomago in New South Wales in Australia.
Moving on to our existing projects I will start with our Project Engineering and Construction business sector.
The construction work on REFICAR's new 150 000 barrels per day refinery in Cartagena Colombia is progressing well.
43 of 84 process modules from fabricating at our fabrication yard in Beaumont have been received and installed at site.
Engineering is close to being completed in our Houston office and our manpower at the project currently exceeds 6 500.
In Canada the Kearl initial phase construction work is now complete.
We have received several of the client-supplied equipment modules and the hookup work is proceeding on schedule to be completed this year.
Engineering work in Houston on our Kearl expansion project is progressing as planned and we have begun work in the field north of Fort McMurray.
In the U.S.
Occidental's Elk Hills gas processing plant in California is complete and the facility has been started up by the client.
At Dominion's gas processing facility in Natrium West Virginia construction is well underway and we are working towards first gas in the plant in December this year.
In Europe the refinery expansion for shale in Pernis Rotterdam has been completed and the NIS Pancevo Oil Refinery Modernization Project in Serbia is scheduled to be completed this year.
In the UK we are being contracted to install an additional LNG import pipeline at the Isle of Grain Terminal and the work is executed on a reimbursable basis and the project is proceeding on schedule.
In Papua New Guinea on Exxon's Hides gas conditioning plant in the Highlands construction is ongoing.
Engineering is complete and procurement of materials and equipment has been finalized and ready to be shifted to site.
Shifting to our Steel Plate Structures business sector progress on our two new nuclear projects Vogtle and Summer has been good in the period with welding work on the container vessels continuing well.
In Canada and in the U.S.
we have several large conventional storage tanks contracts all of which are progressing on schedule.
In the Middle East the GASCO project in Abu Dhabi is coming to a successful completion.
All tanks have been purged with nitrogen and the project is scheduled to be finished this year well ahead of the original schedule.
Additionally we have several large conventional storage tank projects underway in Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi including 90 tanks as part of Takreer's refinery expansion in Ruwais and Mussafah.
Construction and fabrication are in progress and scheduled to be completed in 2012 and 2013.
On Gorgon MEI we have mobilized more than 300 strong management team in Perth and we have received and installed the first modules on Barrow Island.
This is a construction-only scope for us with all engineering materials logistics and process modules fabrication provided by the client.
The majority of the construction scope will be performed in 2013 and '14 and at peak more than 4 000 CB&amp;I employees will be engaged on the project.
We are also constructing two LNG tanks for the Gorgon project on Barrow Island.
Welding of the out-of-tank shells on the first tank is complete and the-roof raise is planned for early August.
The roof raise for the second tank is planned for October well ahead of the next cyclone season.
Work on Barrow Island has as previously reported had a slower ramp up than initially planned transferring some work scope into 2013 and '14.
This change is included for in our current manpower planning for the project.
On Curtis Island on the East Coast of Australia we are erecting two LNG tanks for ConocoPhillips APLNG project.
The tank foundations are in place and we have started welding the outer tank walls.
The project is progressing ahead of schedule.
In Papua New Guinea we are building the two LNG storage tanks for Exxon's LNG project on the coast at Port Moresby.
The gas from the PNG gas plant in the Highlands will be processed here and then shipped to the market.
The air-raise on both LNG tanks has been completed in the period and the project is on schedule.
I will now hand over to Dan to comment on Lummus Technology.
Thank you Lasse.
Good afternoon to everyone.
Those that have reviewed the sector results in our press release would have noticed that Lummus Technology's second quarter new awards exceed previous quarter's by wide margin.
This should not be too surprising because we ended the quarter with a flurry of new project announcements.
While our new awards contain substantial heat transfer equipment bookings the licensing side was by far the bigger component.
I attribute this success to two developments.
First and foremost is the award of our first paraxylene license.
We have always been an active licensor on the olefin side of petrochemicals but now paraxylene opens up the aromatics value chain to us.
Reliance Industries of India a major producer of paraxylene and polyester licensed a suite of three technologies from Lummus to build the world's largest paraxylene plant.
Compared to many other technologies the value of this licensed package and catalyst sale is high thus explaining a significant part of our growth in new awards.
The second factor is the release of a number of contracts that were in development for the last six to nine months.
Although the new awards value for the first quarter was good it mainly consists of heat transfer equipment.
The large increase from licensing bookings for our heritage business in the second quarter catches up for a slower than usual first quarter.
Ethylene activity remained strong in the second quarter.
We booked grassroots projects in Malaysia and Russia and expansion in Southeast Asia and a pyrolysis heater supply contract in Egypt.
Consistent with our vision to be a total technology supplier to olefins producers these projects include licenses for associated technologies such as butadiene extraction high-purity isobutylene aromatics dealkylation and other small units.
While there were not any new ethylene awards in United States we continue to follow number of ethylene prospects which should move forward in the next six to 18 months.
Propylene technologies did generated good business in the United States.
We licensed a large propane dehydrogenation plant which will be built by Enterprise.
This facility will convert the propane component of natural liquids to propylene.
We believe that there are additional opportunities for propane dehydrogenation in North America.
For those more technically inclined we also have licensing new technology this quarter.
Many of our customers produce propylene via metathesis technology.
Often production in these plants is limited by the availability of C4 feedstock.
We have developed and licensed a new process called CDIsis which enables us to utilize a greater proportion of the C4 byproducts streams at feedstocks to these metathesis units we see this as a valuable debottleneck tool for many of our existing licensees.
With all this emphasis on petrochemicals I do not want to ignore Refining Residue Upgrading and hydro-processing investments continued to proceed.
Our non-consolidated joint venture CLG performed above expectations well actually based on lubes licensing and catalyst sales.
Our delayed coking business remains active and we are seeing increased interest in our Proprietary Devices for fluid catalytic crackers.
From an earnings perspective we produced solid results.
With the strong growth and license backlog as well as on-hand purchase orders for a large catalyst shipment in the fourth quarter Lummus Technology is poised to generate revenues and earnings growth in the second half of this year.
Thank you and I'll turn it over to Ron.
Thanks Dan.
And good afternoon everyone.
With that overview of our significant project activities around the world let me take you through our solid financial results which were included in our second quarter earnings release.
Revenue for the second quarter was $1.3 billion up $214 million or 20% over the second quarter of 2011.
The revenue increase reflects our higher beginning of the period backlog and the continued increase of construction activities on our major projects.
We expect this increasing project activity to continue throughout 2012 providing sequential quarterly revenue growth consistent with the underpinning and tightening of our full year revenue guidance.
Based on our revenue today and expected backlog burn in the second half of 2012 we increased the lower end of our revenue range by $200 million providing new 2012 revenue guidance of $5.4 billion to $5.6 billion.
The increase in our gross profit for the quarter was primarily driven higher revenues from our Project Engineering and Construction sector and total $159 million the highest – second highest in our history.
Gross profit totaled $140 million in the comparable 2011 quarter.
Each of our sectors continued to benefit from the solid projects – project execution and are performing consistent with our expectations.
The decline in our first quarter gross profit percentage to 12.2% from 12.9% in the second quarter of 2011 reflects the changing relative revenue contribution of our sectors.
Specifically and as we expected approximately 80% of our quarter-over-quarter revenue growth came from our Project Engineering and Construction sector which accounted for 55% of our consolidated revenue compared to 50% in the comparable periods 2011.
I'll come back and discuss changes in our revenue and operating income by business sector in a moment.
Selling and administrative expenses increased $3.9 million from the second quarter of 2011 and totaled $52.4 million.
The change reflects increases in our business development efforts global administrative support costs and global inflation.
Selling and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue was 4% for the quarter compared to 4.5% for the comparable quarter of 2011.
We continue to expect our full year 2012 selling and administrative expenses to be approximately 4% of revenues down from 4.5% for full year of 2011.
Second quarter income from operations increased 17% to $103.1 million or a solid 7.9% of revenues compared to $88.4 million in the second quarter of 2011.
Our income tax rate for the quarter was 29% consistent with the 28% to 32% range discussed historically and consistent with our expectations for the full year.
The summation of [low lab] results in the second quarter net income of $72.3 million or $0.74 per diluted share and year-to-date net income of $131.8 million or $1.34 a share.
Each of the aforementioned earnings reflect a strongest second quarter and first six months results in our history.
EBITDA totaled a $119.9 million for the quarter or 9.2% of revenues.
Or our earnings to date and our confidence in the quality of our backlog have allowed us to narrow the guidance range and increased the lower end of our earnings per share range guidance.
As we indicated in our earnings release our revised 2012 EPS guidance is $2.85 to $3.05.
Now let me take you through the sector's 2012 results were consistent with our expected annual range of operating results which we have discussed previously.
Specifically our performance expectations for operating income are in the range of 7% to 10% for Steel Plate Structures 3% to 6% for Project Engineering and Constructions and annual operating income for Lummus Technology of $100 million plus or minus 10%.
Phil Lasse and Dan spoke to specific new awards and prospects activities so I'll cover some overall comments relating to new awards.
As we previously indicated new awards for the second quarter totaled just over $1.8 billion for book-to-burn of 141%.
As pointed out earlier the second quarter awards resulted in backlog of over $10 billion the highest in our company's history.
Press release awards and growth in our major projects totaled approximately $1.2 billion and the approximately $600 million aggregate balance of smaller new awards was spread nicely between our sectors and projects types and around the world.
Our new awards of $3.5 billion for the first six months and prospects for the balance of the year enable us to reaffirm our previous full year 2012 new award guidance of $5.5 billion to $7 billion.
Now let me turn to our sector performance.
Steel Plate Structures reported second quarter 2012 revenue of $500 million an increase of 9% from $456 million in 2011.
The increase primarily reflected higher activity on our large LNG tank and mechanical erection projects in the Asia Pacific region.
Operating income totaled $48 million or 9.7% of revenues compared to $47 million or 10.4% of revenues in 2011.
Our 2012 results benefitted from higher revenues volume and the related leverage of our – operating costs offset somewhat by the impact of higher percentage of revenues being derived from our cost reimbursable mechanical erection project in the Asia Pacific region and other changes in the mix of our projects and processes.
Project Engineering and Constructions revenues totaled $711 million in the second quarter of 2012.
And increase of $170 million or 31% from 2011.
The most significant revenue increase related to the increased activities at our REFICAR refinery project which Lasse discussed earlier.
Increased revenues were also generated from our gas processing plants in the United States.
Income from operations increased 33% to $33 million or 4.6% of revenues in the second quarter of 2012 compared to $24 million or 4.5% in 2011.
Factors contributing to the change in operating margins included better operating leverage from the higher volume somewhat offset by an increase in the level of reimbursable projects higher pre-contract costs which were driven by an increase in bid activity around the world.
Finally Lummus Technology has had a record new awards quarter of [$311 million] driven by the strength of the global petrochemical market which Dan spoke to earlier that will certainly drive future earnings in the back half of 2012 and beyond.
Second quarter revenue of $89 million was comparable to the 2011 quarter and second year operating income totaled $22 million up $16 million from the comparable quarter of 2011 reflecting a favorable margin mix on the quarter activities and improved equity income from our 50% interest in Chevron Lummus Global.
Our balance sheet liquidity remains strong with a cash balance of $553 million no revolver borrowings and cash net of debt of $513 million.
During the quarter we returned $23 million to our shareholders through $5 million of cash dividends and stock repurchases of $18 million.
For the first six months our share repurchases and dividends totaled $133 million.
Our CapEx in the second quarter was $23 million and $34 million for the first half.
We expect full year CapEx to be approximately $65 million.
Our investment in contract capital reflected the combined balances of receivables contracts and process and accounts payable stands at a negative $540 million at the end of the quarter compared to $672 million at the end of the first quarter.
This changed primarily due to the timing of receivable collections.
A significant portion of the second quarter change is expected to be recovered over the balance of the year.
In closing our strong backlog and financial position provide us with the necessary financial flexibility to deliver our projects and take advantage of the energy market demand for our services.
We are well positioned for opportunities to grow our Company and continue to provide strong returns to our shareholders.
Phil? Thank you Ron.
Now we'll open the call for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Andy Kaplowitz Barclays Capital.
Good afternoon Andy.
Nice quarter.
Thank you.
So Phil if I didn't know any better I mean the way it sounds like everything's going along very very well.
Are you guys seeing any sort of slowdown in anything? I mean it sounds like no.
Obviously what we read every day looking at the markets is different but you guys seemed well positioned and everything is going along well.
Is that true? Any customers saying that? That's a pretty good read Andy.
We're very encouraged about what we see in front of us.
Certainly the developments in Australia still keep -- are keeping pace with what we've reported previously especially on big projects and we're quite hopeful we are – we’ll continue to win our share if that work.
The market in the U.S.
around shale gas petrochemicals no surprise there they are developing as planned nothing difference to report on the export facilities on LNG export.
We continue to work with three port developing fee and we are doing some preliminary work with (inaudible) as well and again we think we are well-positioned for at least one or two or those in the next couple of years.
So in my opening remarks I said the best news was that it is as we planned and gave guidance for it and I think that's a -- in this business that's a pretty good thing to say.
Yeah that is.
So I'm going to get Dan in trouble for this but obviously very large awards in the quarter in Lummus and so you've given the guidance that you've given for the last year so around that 100 plus or minus 10%.
I know we're starting sort of slowly but it seems to me like you're going to ramp up quickly here in Lummus Tech for the next couple of quarters.
Is that fair? So maybe you could get to the high end of that range or even beyond? Yeah Andy I think that that's definitely the direction we're going with the paraxylene activity.
It's a bit of a step change for us and so we have a hope that indeed – well I guess it's got to be more than hope right? We have expectations that indeed we are on an upward ramp now.
Okay.
And maybe I could throw in one more quick one.
Did the scope adjustments Phil of $750 million I think you mentioned in Q2 those seem unusually high.
Where are they coming from and do you expect more scope adjustments in the second half of the year? They are unusually high for this quarter and not unusual for the amount of reimbursable – for the size of reimbursable projects and the size of projects.
But certainly this quarter that kind of concentration is kind of unusual.
We have certain restrictions on disclosures on scope changes in our contracts but if you look at our major projects I think you can pretty well see the projects will be effective primarily LNG related but it was a high concentration of growth on projects.
But again they were – our forecast just has other new awards we anticipated in our forecast.
We're certainly subject to the same kind of factoring subject to owners' approval so it wasn't a spike as we certainly anticipated that.
So it was just a different kind of mix this quarter than previous quarters.
Okay that's helpful.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Andy.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Cook Credit Suisse.
Good afternoon Jamie.
Hi good morning and congratulations.
One of the few good reports I've had so far earning season.
Two -- couple -- two clarifications and then one question.
One as it relates to I think you made comments with regards to Gorgon about some revenues being pushed to 2013 versus '14.
Did I hear that correctly and can you quantify? And then the second follow-up question relates to what Andy just asked.
On the Lummus Technology in terms of I just want to make sure I understand we're at a new inflection point or whatever you said is that in terms of -- do you expect orders to somewhat continue at this rate or do you -- or were you talking more about the burn rate associated with those orders? And then my real question is just in terms of you know great quarter.
The revenue was a little lighter relative to what we thought.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of where revenues trended relative to your expectations? I know you expected sequential improvement but the Street was higher so if you could just talk through that and then I'll get back in queue? So I'd give you the short answer because I'm going to let me colleagues here expand if needed but on the Gorgon project I believe what Lasse said that was expected ramping up in 2013 2014.
So we're going to see the top of that curve through those two years so it's '13 and '14 Jamie.
But no change in forecast I'm just trying to understand whether you said it'd be delayed -- it's further out than you thought or is there nothing…? No it actually relates to your last question too and there is a sluggishness in some of the revenues and that was directly related to more delayed revenue on Gorgon in our steel plate structured business.
But again it's just -- it's not -- it's still in front of us.
So we had not quite the expectations but that was attributable primarily to Gorgon.
Then Lummus Tech I'll let you answer that.
Well I think that for us Jamie we have been looking at maybe like $125 million a quarter and I think now we are looking higher than that maybe $150 million.
So for the year I think that you know we'll have significantly higher overall awards than we had in previous years.
And of course the margins associated with that should generate additional profit and for us to be in the range at the end of the year of about $120 million could very well happen.
That's what would be in my target.
Is there any reason the margins will be based on that –– significantly different than what we are seeing? I would think the trajectory the trajectory for 2013 in terms of what you see on your operating income should be better than the $120 million that you are talking about? That's something to look at the next year of course but you know it's a little early for us to have a perspective on that.
But I think that in general we have been fortunate to sort of growing bottom line at 10% and we hope to continue to do that year–on–year.
Yeah.
Jamie I think also as the answers in mix as Dan said in his remarks previous quarter was a greater concentration of heaters heat transfer equipment which carries a different kind of commercial structure to it and somewhat incrementally lower margins.
So that has I think to –– that adds to a component of this.
But I think that step change from $80 million to $100 million to $120 million is very significant on the net income line.
So we hope that it's continued improvement.
But I'd be careful using just a straight run–rate calculation going into next year.
But certainly we expect Dan's group to grow at that kind of pace.
Then sorry just one and then I really will stop.
Back on Gorgon could you quantify the revenue deferral or you know what's getting plus to 2013 2014 I just want to get sense of for how material that is? Is that much sure money.
I think we were able to come in at a revenue target the upper end of our revenue guidance because the small shortfall that we have had as we have ramped that up has been offset by revenue coming out of the other projects.
So it was not being (inaudible).
When we started the year one of our base challenges and trying to anticipate to have an excellent impact on revenue forecasting.
Quite honestly as we have gotten through the year that change if you will the variance is probably within 5%.
I think I will have go back and check that but wasn't as significant as we had anticipated.
So it's pretty much producing what we forecasted.
Okay.
Thanks and congrats again.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Fisher UBS.
Hello Steven.
Steven? Sorry about that.
Good afternoon.
Not sure if I missed this but did you comment on what your expectations are for the minority the non–controlling interest? Is that still expected to be $25 million for the year? Papua New Guinea and Gorgon and then of course our business in Saudi we would expect that to be closer to $50 million for the full year.
Okay because it seems like is that part of the reason for the guidance change or is it I guess the net you wouldn't get the benefit consolidated anyway? It actually helps a little bit because that revenue is being replaced with other revenue and of course that's revenue we don't share with anybody else.
So as we hit our revenue number and it gets 100% on versus partially minority it does help the bottom line a little bit.
Then can you just comment on what you are seeing on the ability to find adequate labor in Australia and how that is expecting a ramp up of the Gorgon MEI? Then I guess just to clarify that again the part of the Gorgon that's delayed that is your tank work cannot just MEI? Yeah.
No what we are seeing is there is some transfer of revenues from this year to the later years on Gorgon and that increase in labor that maybe comes as the compression of the schedule.
We have not seen any difficulties in finding the labor in Australia.
We have a large following there as we have talked about it in earlier earnings calls.
And the ramping up to this level of labor that we need to do on Gorgon is well within what we have in our forecast and I think we can do.
And clearly we'll max out on our Australian Liverpool and then if need be we can supplement through four five seven visas for additional resource.
Yeah I think it's important to clarify Steve that the delays if you will – we've been talked about in Gorgon are not result of labor shortages.
It's – I characterize it as more of re–sequencing of the work but certainly not because we can't mobilize labor.
You know when you look at the new job that we are just awarded in New South Wales as that's whole different labor market over there it's a heavy industrial area plenty of local labor different unions and so forth.
So and that's kind of how it is in Australia it's not all concentrated in one area but certainly we've seen good results from recruiting in Australia and good productivity.
So we're very encouraged.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Okay.
Your next question comes on the line of George O'Leary Tudor Pickering.
Hello George.
Pickering</strong> Yeah.
Good evening guys.
How are you all? Good.
Pickering</strong> So just kind of talking about end markets you believe will most impact–fully drive new term growth opportunities for CBI some maybe ranking LNG verses petrochemical and then talking about the North American opportunity verses the rest of world.
Just maybe a little bit more color on what you think drive this business in the near term? Well if you look into next year in 2014 as Lasse said you'd have to put Australia LNG right at the top of that list.
We're very encouraged again when you get back to US on the markets developing both with shale gas and petrochemical projects to next two to five years.
And certainly the export facilities I think close by that would be with the Freeport and others.
So those would be the – the big opportunities.
So we've also seen a wonderful diversely in our new awards for offshore pipeline FPSOs that are driven by engineering offices around the world.
And that's really important part of our overall picture that contributes to the –– what we experienced this year of the $600 million are sold new awards throughout our offices and in technologies and small projects.
So that's been very important run–rate for us and it would contribute as we said previously.
Around $2 billion and $2.5 billion of new business each year and very–very diverse book of work.
So when we see activity in virtually all the sectors which we participate throughout most of geographic areas.
We have talked some more (inaudible) in Russia seems to be getting some various interesting traction on that project and we hope that we'll go to tender here very soon at least of this year.
So the end markets that we're positioned for I think are still very strong for us and we think going into 2013 and 2014 we'll be in pretty good shape.
Pickering</strong> Yeah that's very helpful and maybe just piggybacking on the back of that and given your comments around offshore and some pipeline FPSO type work any thoughts around using your cash balance and solid liquidity position to – you know bolster your position in the upstream markets maybe potentially even looking at during some M&amp;A there? We've certainly talked with number of analysts and others about this they asked a lot of questions it's a natural -- it's a natural position for us to take given the amount of headroom we have in there I mean there's a lot of headroom in that.
It’s very difficult M&amp;A market for us except on very incremental basis but we continue to grow our position in offshore FPSO a lot of good engineering and procurement work.
To get into the next level it would take a whole different kind of investment that we’ll have to really think hard about it in our projects.
Go ahead.
And also one of the growth opportunities we have coming out from the upstream and the offshore side is to find partners to do EPC together with that vessels on our growth avenue for us in that area.
Pickering</strong> Thanks guys.
That’s very helpful.
That’s all I got.
Thank you.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Dudas Sterne Agee.
Hello Michael.
Good evening Phil and everybody.
Lasse to follow-up your last comment there on the upstream side are you thinking about different partners different areas of the world different skill sets or maybe getting a venture with one particular company to levered both your skill sets.
As we’ve done on the LNG side we’ve partnered up with Saipem and with Chiyoda and we are executing projects jointly with them in various parts of the world.
We like to work with the same partners so we know them and we trust them and we know how they can perform.
And we will do the same when we leverage into other markets and we are currently exploring that on the FPSO side and also on fixed platforms where we are in good position on with doing engineering.
Appreciate that.
For Ron as the business mix changes as you see growth in the topline and potentially and hopefully on the backlog side in new business taking in the next couple of years.
You feel comfortable you can still drive the leverage through the G&amp;A business to maybe enforce that percentage revenue even below the 4% range as we move for the next couple of years is that model still there or is there more investment or required to get to that next level revenue? I think as we look forward in our markets and have confidence there will be double-digit growth beyond 2012.
We’ll continue to see some of that leverage that we saw this year to date and expect for the full year.
Obviously it’s incrementally more challenging to -- you can go 5.3 to 4.5 last year it was 4.0 this year.
So it diminishes as far as significant but we continue to believe that we have an S&amp;A activity that will increase by inflation plus a little bit certainly would be in the kind of the range that we saw in this quarter mid -- percent mid single digit percentages.
And so we will see some leverage coming out of that as long as we keep growing the topline by that double-digit number and that would be our expectation.
Appreciate that.
And my final question for Dan maybe you can talk a little more about the refining aspect in your technology side.
Any indications on what customers are thinking about and maybe the coking side -- is there opportunity for coking potential licensing for you and do you see an outlook of growth from cap investment or refining side given what you are talking about with your customers? I think the coking business continues to be an important activity throughout the world whether it be just putting in a coker itself or taking the bottoms of resi treater in coking that.
People are always going to extract the maximum amount of liquid.
These projects are quite interesting.
And so yes we continue to see that business being vibrant for the next few years.
Another aspect of coking is that there is a lot of interest now on specialized coke in particular needle coking and we are doing some work in that area to this sort of product used in steel making and has a tremendous value.
So it sort of puts a upside to coking because otherwise it’s a difficult product to get rid off.
And so we are enthusiastic about coking.
Refining we think that there is two or three issues that the U.S.
has to address not this year but out in the future.
There is going to be continued growth in Asia-Pacific Rim and that will provide opportunities for us.
Excellent.
Thanks for your thoughts gentlemen.
Thanks Michael.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Konigsberg Vertical Research.
Hello Brian.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hey I just wanted to touch on U.S.
gas processing.
Couple of projects you are working on there you had discussed the potential opportunity for some add-on work.
I was curious where that resides right now and do you see that being a contributor say over the next couple quarters or a potential contributor? I think as we said on the back of the shale gas developments in the U.S.
It has given us opportunities particularly for the Dominion gas plant.
Hopefully there will be more work coming out of that part of U.S.
and generally on the gas processing side we are well-positioned also with technology for smaller gas plants and I think there will be some good opportunities in that sector.
You are probably referring to Brian I think we’ve specifically talked about expansions at both those facilities… Yeah.
They are still in the playing phases.
We don’t have any more information on that.
But we still would anticipate that we will look forward at some point but it won’t be immediate.
Okay.
And just shortly with natural gas prices creeping up obviously we are still at very low levels but I’m just curious when your discussions with some of the project sponsors at what levels do they start to reconsider the economics of some of these projects.
I assume we are still very far away but I'm just curious if you have any kind of break-even levels or kind of where that resides around? Well I think probably if you asked three of us moving forward we should probably might get four different answers as far as where does that impede more capital expenditures in Southern downstream plants and gas plants.
We haven’t seen that as of yet.
I hate to give you a number it would clearly be speculative on my part.
But certainly I think its well north of where we are.
We were quite comfortable that there would be unusual increase that would stop or impede more CapEx in natural gas.
We just haven’t seen it.
We have not seen the pace slowdown of anything.
I think generally speaking we think most of the developments have accelerated over the last year or two.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Levine JP Morgan.
Hi Scott.
Hi.
Hey.
How are you doing Phil? Question so your margins so even margins have generally hung in the 7% 8% range and gross in 12s.
But could you give us some color you guys have traditionally endorsed 10-ish to 12-ish gross margin range.
I’m wondering if they ever continue to think about that this year and maybe subjectively into next? And then also maybe some color regarding the margins and the work you are booking today versus what is running through your P&amp;L? Are there any market differences between the two? Well I think Ron will probably tell you in a minute that that range that we’ve been operating in for all the business sectors is still what we see that very remainder of this year and going into next year.
We haven’t seen any fundamental shifts in the market that are affecting absolute margins at least in the regions in which we are participate.
And I think we haven’t seen any incremental changes in those margins in the end markets that I’m talking about.
So I think it’s got -- the ranges what we’ve given you for each one of those sectors still good range for operating.
Ron would you agree? Yeah.
I think it’s very challenging to talk about our 10.5 to 12.5 range without getting back to understand the sectors because as you saw this year and you have seen the last two years many quarters in a row now the sectors are operating right where we think they should be or it have been.
The midpoint for PEC the upper end for SPS in this $100 million and growing from Lummus Technology.
But that mix is really driving a change in our consolidated gross profits.
So we try and act to focus too much on that because you kind of miss the story if you will and the result when we are growing that PEC business by 33% a year we’re going to see some continued reduction in consolidate gross profit.
But as you saw this quarter most of our operating incomes all of our operating income increased from the -- what I would call the project business came out of that revenue machine and that’s why that business model works and that’s why we like it.
So as we continue to hopefully exploit some of these large projects in LNG we will see that PC revenue stream continue to grow pretty healthy and the phenomenon you saw continue.
But Phil is right what we are selling what we are delivering the mix of work the type of contracting we are doing and the mix we have of cost-reimbursable versus lump sum I wouldn’t respect any major changes in our sector ranges sort of performance that we have seen in the last many quarters.
Got it.
One follow-up and maybe housekeeping any impact from FX translation on your backlog or reporting metrics or is that de-minimus or I don’t know if that was given or not? Its pretty de-minimus for the first six months that probably helped us it bounced if you will probably overall 3% 4% improvement in the first quarter and we gave it back in the second vice versa.
So right now we are right where we started the beginning of the year.
Thanks.
Nice quarter.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Ritchie Goldman Sachs.
Hello Joe.
Hi guys.
Great quarter.
And thanks for taking my questions.
First question is really around your awards.
It looks like first half of the year you are on a run rate to hit the top end of your award guidance range.
You hadn’t really booked to a lot of big award there with the exception of maybe curl.
And so is it fair to say that you can hit the top end of that guidance range just by continuing to crank out $200 million $300 million projects and you don’t need any of these large mega projects that come through to get there? Well the forecast is a mix of somewhat very large projects and the range of projects that you are talked about of course is a factoring of probability so we’ll resolve that as well.
So our range is really predicated on that kind of factoring and mix.
I think you’re right.
I think probably if there is a risk in our guidance it’s all new awards and just timing of the awards.
I think we are pretty confident that Browse do as they say and go to EPC towards the end of year but whether that’s translates in the beginning of the contract before at the end of year is fairly problematic and some of the others.
But I think when as we look at the book of work in front of us for the reminder year there is a number in that $250 million $300 million range that will be very very good projects for us and it would make up I think the good portion of our guidance.
So yeah we have a good chance of getting to the top of rig but timing got to be our friend.
Okay.
That’s helpful Phil.
And I guess switching the gears over to your margins and that the margins that you booked this quarter which were strong across each one of your segment.
Was there anything Ron one-time that helped those margins particularly in steel plate for example incentive fees on GASCO is there anything that just was with off this quarter that helped you? When the Yamal was up they do just as we hope.
Every quarter we have some that do better every quarter we have some that leak a little better or need to be head free of retention but they are pretty much offset that they have been doing for quite sometime.
So no big plus no big minus when aggregated with the 700 plus projects that’s going on at this point in time.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Just one last question for Dan.
We’ve talked in the past about Lummus Technology being a good leading indicator for cross-selling into some of your other businesses particularly I guess your project engineering business.
Can you talk a little bit about the opportunities maybe even in India to do some of the construction work on some on those projects that you are running? Well I think that hold off in India and let’s talk into general for the time being.
Okay.
And in general I think we are having a very good success rate of working projects with its good opportunity to create value for the customer through a single execution model.
And the project I described and Russia is the same project Lasse described is doing the feed work.
And so that’s all very much coordinated between the two sectors.
And the North American market is very much coordinated between the two sectors.
Then when we go out to places like India and other places it becomes there is a lot of local engineering company -- there is a lot preference to use local engineering companies and sometimes the risk-reward profile is not that friendly.
So in the follow-up regions I would say that it’s not only as possible to go together.
I think generally I mean if you just look in this past year or two of course Williams….
Right.
…is a good example of how we bundle all those services dominion molecules.
There were components of that REFICAR and just a number of projects.
So we’re definitely seeing the ability to either use technology as a leader.
In some cases the EPC work where Dan can bring in technology to the mix.
And then of course let’s not forget our tank business either that’s also wonderful add on.
So it’s really been beneficial.
What we don’t do is we don’t -- it’s not prescribed.
We don’t take projects only because we are doing technology and we don’t think EPC if we just have the technology.
So it’s not prescribed.
So we look at each project and its own merits and hopefully in many cases the owners are seeing the advantages of bundling these services together.
Okay.
Make sense.
Thanks for taking my questions and nice quarter.
Thanks Joe.
Your next question comes from the line Robert Norfleet BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi Robert   This is [John Allison] his new associate.
Rob couldn’t be on the call today but I just -- lot of my questions have already been answered.
But I want to get a little bit more color on what you guys are seeing in terms of acquisition opportunities.
And also you guys have a large amount of cash on your books now also I want to know what your thoughts are on share repurchases going forward? Well we’ll -- I am sure Ron will add to this as well but again as we said previously every thing is on the table.
We think our preferred use of our capital is to growing the company organically and certainly acquisitions have always been a part of our strategy going forward if they make sense.
The share repurchase certainly is an ongoing program we look at as long as it’s been opportunity for our shareholders.
So we have got great returns on it.
So that’s certainly a still in the mix.
So Ron you want add anything to that? No.
I think that’s good -- number one objective is to grow our business externally and internally.
And each quarter we look at our opportunities and make sure that we are -- have the right capital structure in place to take advantage of that and to return the shareholder money to an extent we can.
Obviously we did a lot -- we did a large repurchase in the first quarter that was by designed to be the largest simply because if you’re going to do it you might as well get it done early in the year or later in the year.
So that’s why you saw us tail-off here in the second quarter.
Right.
And one more question it sounds like you guys have a pretty positive outlook -- pretty good positive outlook on awards going forward and the market overall but if you’re looking at overall equity markets there is a lot of macro headwinds especially with slowdown in China and what’s going on in Europe.
I guess my question would be what’s your biggest concern right now in CB&amp;I’s market? Well we are able to mitigate a lot of that headwind [John] by really just the customers that we are working for.
Our mix of customers are those large international and integrated oil companies who are scenario of playing 5 and 10 years out and are planning their CapEx accordingly.
And those are -- make up our essentially our client list.
And I think as long as we stay faithful to that process I think we would be able to mitigate a lot of the macro headwinds that you refer to.
And we’ve been successful as well as having a good mix of business and a good diverse portfolio work I think has been the primary reason we’ve been successful in awards.
Okay.
Well thank you so much.
Thank you John.
This will be the last question.
Your final question comes from the line of Matt Tucker KeyBanc Capital.
Hi.
Good afternoon and nice quarter guys.
Thank you Your first question when you look at the revenue guidance the midpoint suggest a pretty material ramp-up in the second half or sort of first half.
I was curious to the project business continue to drive most of that or could you kind of give us sense on your by segments of the trajectory going forward? I think volatile mode continue to have revenue growth on a percentage basis.
I think you’ll see that on coming through on Lummus Technology.
Although when you cut through it their income is more important than their revenue level just because of the way they -- their business is structured in various equity participations et cetera.
But I think what we saw in the second quarter we expect to continue for the balance of the year.
And you’re right if you are at midpoint you would look towards $3 billion of additional revenue in the back half that just so avenues be at 20% growth on the $2.5 billion we have so far and they are very close to 20% growth we had in the first quarter 20% growth we had in the second quarter.
So I wouldn’t expect anything drastically different to get to our guidance we need that 20% for center to rotate to continue and that will continue to be driven nicely by the PC side being closer to 20 and the steel plate structure side be very close to double-digits also.
Thanks Ron.
And then you commented on the mix of smaller awards as well as obviously technology -- both very strong in the quarter.
Do you see that level of kind of base load work and technology work as sustainable going forward? Was there a little bit of benefit from lumpiness in the second quarter? I think it’s interesting.
We first start paying a lot of attention to that “small work” and every time I say that prior have a bunch of business developers sending me for probably $40 million small but as we looking at that back in ’08 beginning of the financial crisis and really zeroing in at it and I must say I don’t recall quarters.
Since then that we haven’t been in that kind of 400 and low to $600 million $700 million on the high every quarter and that work is important to us.
We focus a lot on those small projects.
They are really -- it's really nice work when you go through the risk profile of those things.
So I would look for that to continue and we wouldn’t call any of those quarters unusual at this point in time.
Thanks Ron.
If I get one last question as you look at your award guidance for the rest of the year so you mentioned that you I guess taking out a probability weighted approach to some of the potential very large projects out there.
You mentioned that Yamal LNG is at least scheduled to be awarded EPC that is in the fourth quarter.
Could you give us any more color on how you’re kind of factoring that into the award guidance because my sense is that it will happen in the fourth quarter you could probably be well above the high end? Well that could happen Matt.
Again the timing would have to be in our favor.
I think the important thing about that is that it has been extremely positive comments come out of Russian government regarding the project and the sponsorship of large portion of the capital expenditure there.
So those projects that we’ve identified in that part of the world certainly Yamal seems to be well ahead.
And we’ve got a great position there we’re going to have to earn our way our obviously but the timing again it’s most of those projects that we’re glad to see that the timing has been somewhat accelerated that what we had envisioned probably in November when we gave our guidance.
So yeah that would have anywhere of those large jobs would certainly have a tremendous upside to our new awards but I think staying in the course on the guidance right now and perhaps towards the upper end is probably a reasonable projection.
And I think I’ll just remind you that a lot of these projects while they will announce EPC award that doesn’t necessarily mean that they have met all the criteria that we have to put some in our backlog.
So obviously we’ll have to have NFID decision or FID and contract and hopefully soon by down payment to get us mobilized and get us going.
So never say never but all those things needs to happen before we put it in our backlog because we want to make sure we don’t take it out at some point.
Yeah.
That’s very important.
We do tender conservative side about what we consider backlog and as Ron said all those conditions have to be met.
So even though the closer we get to these large mega projects and the excitement and impressive these will get again we’re going to make sure that all those things have been achieved before we actually put in the backlog.
So we’ll communicate that.
I think that makes sense.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you Matt.
Thank you.
That was our final question for today.
Like to thank everyone for your participation on today’s call you may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Before beginning today's call the company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company's press release and the SEC filings.
While forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we report Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron's results for the third quarter of 2012.
With me today are CB&amp;I's Chief Operating Officer Lasse Petterson who will report on project backlog and steel plate structures; Dan McCarthy President of Lummus Technology; and our Chief Financial Officer Ron Ballschmiede who will discuss our third quarter financial performance and outlook for the year.
We had another very strong quarter highlighted by a year-over-year the growth in earnings and revenue solid cash position and a sustainable backlog.
New awards year-to-date increased to nearly $4.5 billion consistent with the trajectory we had anticipated in our guidance for the year.
During this quarter we announced a $237 million EPC project built a peak shaver in Eastern Australia; a contract in excess of $80 million of engineering and procurement for an offshore facility in Europe; an exciting FEED contract for Occidental Chemical's new ethane cracker which we hope to convert to EPC in early 2013 with a very interesting project for the engineering and construction management project for BASF in Belgium for a new butadiene crack plant.
In addition our quarterly run rate of new awards for smaller underpinning work in technology tanks and services contracts around the world was in excess of $500 million.
We remain very confident that our focus in LNG gas processing petrochemicals and other engineering and construction opportunities combined with the great return that we're seeing from our technology sector and the global market position of steel plate structures.
We are well poised to enter 2013 in an extremely strong position to capitalize on the continuing development of energy infrastructure in this country and around the world.
As Ron will reaffirm our guidance for this year is unchanged.
Of course a large part of this world view is the pending of financial close of our acquisition of the Shaw Group.
Since we announced on June 30 that we have signed a definitive agreement to acquire the Shaw Group we've had the opportunity to speak with analysts investors bankers employees customers as well as other stakeholders in both companies.
From those conversations I've been impressed with the tremendous support and anticipation about this important consolidation of 2 of the leading companies in our industry.
As we get to know more of the Shaw employees we’re encouraged by their talent and dedication.
As we further examine their work processes and technical capabilities we clearly see an opportunity to leverage their expertise with the success we've had with our approach to execution.
With our technology EPC and tank fabrication and erection combined with the Shaw businesses like pipe fabrication and plant services we can scale our business model to provide a virtually seamless offering.
The owners will require a safe and comprehensive solution for their capital projects which by some estimates will require a resource capability not seen in this industry for decades.
Let me provide an update on this transaction timeline: what's been accomplished and what's still to come.
Activities are moving along as planned.
Shaw announced that it successfully completed the divestiture of its energy and chemicals business announced the extra size of put options to sell its Westinghouse shares with a settlement expected in January 1 both conditions to close.
Lastly Shaw has reported a cash position on August 31 of $1.4 billion and EBITDA for the past 3 quarters of $242 million which obviously gives us great confidence that Shaw is satisfying the $800 million of unrestricted cash and $200 million EBITDA requirements for closing.
We also continue to make progress on the regulatory front.
All necessary filings have been made and the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino has expired.
We remain confident that the proposed transaction will receive the few remaining necessary governmental approvals.
The next major milestone will be the filing of the final proxy statement which is in process now.
We're working towards and continue to expect a transaction close in the first quarter of 2013.
We're also well along with our transaction -- transition activities led by Beth Bailey a seasoned CB&amp;I executive who also drove our Lummus integration.
She has a team of functional and business individuals with a complementary team from Shaw.
These initial transition planning efforts will be critical as we ramp up towards the closing and future operations of our combined companies.
With all that said we're limited in further commenting on the transaction and we request that you keep your questions focused on today's main topic which is of course our quarter 3 performance and outlook for the remainder of the year.
Now let me that the focus of this afternoon's call over to Lasse who will update you on our private engineering and construction business and steel plate structures.
Lasse? Thank you Phil.
Good afternoon.
As in the last earnings call I'll give my comments on some trends in our key markets and including new awards this quarter and then provide a brief update on some of our larger ongoing projects.
Global market trends are still positive in all our end markets.
The LNG market is particularly strong.
CB&amp;I continues to be involved in developing projects for LNG liquefaction in Australia in the U.S.
and Russia as previously reported with new projects now emerging in Canada and East Africa.
We have completed the FEED for the Browse and Arrow projects in Australia and the Yamal project in Russia.
Each of these projects is targeting EPC contractor selection and final investment decision during 2013.
In North America we are currently executing the FEED studies for the conversion of existing LNG import terminals to export terminals at both Freeport Texas and at Cove Point Maryland.
The petrochemical products market continued to be strong worldwide with high demand for ethylene propylene butadiene ammonia ammonium nitrate and other related derivatives.
In the U.S.
shale gas production with liquid rich gas has resulted in a surge of new petrochemical projects.
As previously reported CB&amp;I has been awarded contracts from both Williams and Westlake for new ethylene production expansion.
For Williams we won a contract valued in excess of the USD 300 million for revamping their existing ethylene complex in Geismar Louisiana.
The expansion will increase the olefins plant capacity from 1.3 billion pounds per year to 1.9 billion pounds.
And for Westlake we are adding new capacity at the petrochemical complex in Sulphur Louisiana.
This quarter we were awarded by BASF 155 000-ton per annum butadiene extraction unit in Antwerp Belgium.
We have also begun basic engineering and FEED work for Occidental on the grass [indiscernible] plant in the U.S.
In Russia we have recently been awarded a USD 45 million ethylene FEED and extended basic engineering contract for our 1 million ton per year facility for Nizhnekamskneftekhim NKNK in Tatarstan Russia.
The offshore oil and gas market is strong particularly in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea where we are bidding several topsides detailed engineering contracts.
In the U.K.
sector we were awarded a detailed engineering of a topsides and bridge linked platform valued at USD 80 million.
Early in the third quarter we announced a contract valued at USD 237 million for a gas peak saving facility from in Tomago in New South Wales Australia.
We also added the number of small- and medium-sized storage tank projects in the U.S.
Canada and the Middle East.
Our backlog stands currently at USD 9.5 billion with a good mix to reimbursable and lump sum contracts.
Moving to our existing projects I will start with projects in our Project Engineering and Construction business sector.
The construction work at REFICAR is 150 000 [ph] barrels per day a refinery in Cartagena Colombia is progressing well.
All edified process modules from our fabrication yard Beaumont has been received at site.
53 modules has been set with a remainder in the process of being installed.
Our manpower the project currently exceeds 9 500.
In Canada on the Kearl initial development project construction work is nearly complete.
We have received all of the clients' applied modules and their hook-up work is proceeding on schedule to be completed this year.
Engineering work in Houston on the Kearl expansion project will be completed this month as planned and we have started work in the field north of Fort McMurray.
Our new module assembly yard in Fort Saskatchewan is fully operational and we will use this yard to assemble 263 modules to be installed at the Kearl site next year.
In the U.S.
at Dominion's gas processing plant in Natrium West Virginia construction is well underway and we are working towards bringing first gas into the plant in December this year.
In Europe the NIS Pancevo Oil Refinery modernization project in Serbia has reached mechanical completion.
Some minor items to be completed before commissioning started this quarter.
In the U.K.
our work to install the additional LNG import pipeline at the Isle of Grain terminal is proceeding well and on schedule.
In Papua New Guinea on Exxon's Hides Gas Conditioning Plant in the islands as I stated last quarter engineering is complete.
Procurement of materials and equipment has now been finalized and is in the process of being shipped to the site.
The on-site construction has encouraged some delay due to the challenging logistics of bringing materials and equipment to the site.
The client is constructing an air strip that can land [indiscernible] of cargo planes that can carry the 40-ton major equipment packages to the site once the air strip is complete.
Shifting to our Steel Plate Structures business sector progress on our 2 nuclear projects Vogtle and Summer has been good in the period where welding works on the containment vessel is continuing well.
In Canada and in the U.S.
we have several large conventional storage tanks contracts underway all of which are progressing on schedule.
In the Middle East the GASCO project in Abu Dhabi is coming to a successful completion.
All tanks has been purged with nitrogen and the project is scheduled to be finished this year well ahead of the original schedule.
Additionally we have several large conventional storage tanks projects underway in Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi including 90 tanks as part of Takreer's refinery expansion project in Ruwais and Mussafah scheduled to be completed in 2012 and '13.
Gorgon on the MEI project we have mobilized more than 400 strong management team import and we have received and installed the first 11 modules on the permanent foundations on Barrow Island.
Over the next year we will receive in total more than 400 modules coming from 4 fabrication yards in Asia.
This is a construction-only scope for CB&amp;I with all engineering materials logistics and process module fabrication provided by the client.
The majority of the construction scope will be performed in 2013 and '14 and at peak more than 4 000 CB&amp;I employees will be engaged on the project.
We're also constructing 280 000 cubic meter full containment LNG tanks at the Gorgon project.
Welding of the outer tank shale on the first tank is complete and the roof raise was done in August.
The roof raise on the second tank is planned for early November well ahead of the next cyclone season.
Following the roof raise we'll be proceeding with the welding of the inner 9-nickel tanks well protected from the weather.
Work on our contracts on Barrow Island has as previously reported had a slower ramp up than initially planned transferring work scope from 2000 -- work scope into 2013 and '14.
This has been due to delays experienced by the client's civil contractor as well as difficult logistics associated with the island.
Our plans have been modified to accommodate these changes.
On Curtis Island on the East Coast of Australia we are erecting 2 full containment 160 000 cubic meter LNG tanks for ConocoPhillips' APLNG project.
The tank foundations are in place and we have started welding the outer tank walls.
The project is progressing on schedule.
As I previously mentioned we were awarded a USD 237 million EPC contract by LNG peak shaving facility including a 63 000 cubic meter single containment LNG storage tank in New South Wales Australia.
The engineering is progressing well and we are in the early mobilization phase at the site.
On the coast in Papua New Guinea close to Port Moresby we are building 2 single containment 160 000 cubic meter LNG storage tanks for Exxon's LNG project.
The gas from the PNG gas plant in the highlands will be processed here and then shipped to market.
The air raises of the LNG has been completed and we are currently installing LNG pumps instrumentation piping systems and fire protection on the tanks.
The project is on schedule to be completed next year.
I would now hand it over to Dan to comment on Lummus technology.
Thank you Lasse and good afternoon.
New investment commitments in gas processing oil refining and petrochemicals continued at a high rate in the third quarter as reflected in our new awards of approximately $145 million.
Our year-to-date new awards of $582 million exceeds our previous annual high which occurred in 2008.
Once again the quarter was heavily weighted towards licenses and catalyst awards which resulted in a higher-than-typical gross margin profile.
A large part of our new business was related to shale gas monetization in the United States.
We have been predicting that U.S.
projects would develop in 2012 and now see some of those proceeding rapidly.
Similar to the petrochemical build cycle in the Middle East between 2000 and 2010 these projects are driven by plentiful low-cost gas feedstock and advantaged energy prices.
We were awarded 3 important contracts in the U.S.
in the third quarter.
Technology and equipment supply for gas plant license and basic engineering for new ethylene plant license and basic engineering for propane dehydrogenation plant.
Our PEC sector will be performing the feat for the ethylene plant which as previously mentioned is Occidental.
China has also contributed materially to new awards by ordering 3 propylene plants a polypropylene plant and a methanol to olefins facility.
By comparison investment commitments in refining were somewhat slower.
We did receive 4 notices of award but the contracting process was not completed in the third quarter.
One very noteworthy third quarter award was a gasoline operation license for a new process trade named [indiscernible].
Ethylene alkwood [ph] is a clean high octane blending component of gasoline.
Today it is produced using acid catalysts such as hydrochloric or sulfuric acid which have inherent erosion safety and environmental risks.
The active clean [ph] process uses a proprietary salt catalyst which eliminates all the risks of liquid assets.
After the start up of this first plant the active clean [ph] process has the potential to be considered best available technology.
Another area that I would like to discuss is income from operations which is up substantially from previous quarters.
This is attributable to 2 factors.
First the gross margin in our revenues has increased reflecting the high level of license sales.
Secondly our overhead and S&amp;A expenses have declined because high workload required that the ships mold ahead resources the project work.
The fourth quarter is expected to be similarly strong as the third quarter.
We continue to have a long prospect list which should drive new awards into the range of previous quarters.
Income from operations should also be close to that of the third quarter.
Large volumes of catalyst are scheduled to be shipped in the fourth quarter which will drive earnings in both the consolidated activities and equity income one.
We also anticipate that over the next 6 months heat transfer equipment sales will arrive as licensees begin ordering Specialty Equipment associated with ethylene and propylene [ph] licenses.
In summary we are confident to achieve the higher performance level Phil mentioned in the previous earnings call.
With that said I would like to turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Dan and good afternoon everyone.
With that overview of our sectors' significant activities and markets around the world let me take you through our strong financial performance for the quarter.
Revenue for the third quarter was $1 447 000 000 up $192 million or 15% from the third quarter of 2011.
The year-over-year revenue increase was consistent with our expectations and reflects our higher beginning of the period backlog and continuing increase in construction activities on our major projects.
We expect fourth quarter 2012 revenue to be essentially consistent with that of the third quarter.
Beyond 2012 we expect our higher level of backlog in the opportunities on our global marketplace to generate significant revenue growth in 2013 and beyond.
Our record gross profit for the quarter was $189 million compared to $147 million for the 2011 quarter.
On a percentage basis our gross profit increased to 13.1% of revenues from 11.7% for the comparable 2011 quarter.
Each of our sectors continued to benefit from solid project execution which is driving improved year-over-year operating results.
We continue to believe that our mix of our revenues and contract current terms will generate consolidated gross profit in a 10.5% to 12.5% range which we have discussed previously.
However we continue to believe that given our ever-changing revenue mix in the different sector operating characteristics analyzing our performance at the sector level provides a better understanding of our performance.
Consequently I'll come back and discuss changes in our revenue and operating income by sector in a moment.
Consolidated selling and administrative expenses remain well controlled at $52.9 million or 3.7% of revenues for the quarter.
The change from 2011 of $3.1 million reflects increases in -- associated with our business development efforts around the globe and increases in our global administrative support with the balance being global inflation in the low single digits.
2012 other operating expense include Shaw related transaction costs of $3.5 million and $5 million for the third quarter and year-to-date respectively.
We expect full year 2012 Shaw-related transaction costs to total approximately $8 million or about $0.05 a share.
Third quarter operating income totaled $128.2 million the best quarter operating income in our history.
Over the trailing 16-quarter period our operating margins have been consistently in the 6% to 9% range and have averaged 7.7% of revenue reflecting the quality and solid execution of our backlog and our unique combination of business units.
Net interest expense for 2012 third quarter totaled $4.9 million an increase of $6 million over the comparable 2011 quarter.
The significant items affecting comparability included a swing of income tax related interests primarily around tax contingencies and commitment fees related to the Shaw abridged financing.
Third quarter 2012 income tax related interest expense was $2.4 million compared to a net benefit of $2.4 million in 2011 a swing of $4.8 million.
The third quarter Shaw financing commitment costs totaled $1.7 million with full year expected Shaw financing fees of approximately $5 million to $6 million.
Our income tax rate for the quarter was 30.1% and 29.4% year-to-date.
The third quarter rate increase reflects the impact of an income tax rate reduction enacted in the U.K.
and an anticipated favorable geographic mix for our pretax income.
The U.K.
tax rate reduction required a write-down of our U.K.
NOL asset thereby increasing our third quarter rate by $2.4 million.
About half of this increase was offset by the more favorable geographic mix of our pretax income.
We expect our full year tax rate to approximate our 2012 year-to-date rate of 29%.
The quarter-over-quarter increase in noncontrolling interest primarily reflects the increased activities of our 2 major -- 2 large major -- majority-owned venture projects the Papua New Guinea Gas Plant and Gorgon MEI which the last I spoke to earlier.
The summation of all that results in third quarter net income of $80 million our strongest quarter ever or $0.82 per diluted share.
EBITDA totaled $145 million for the third quarter and $368 million year-to-date compared to $110 million and $308 million respectively in 2011.
Our earnings to date and our confidence in the quality of our backlog have allowed us to maintain the range of 2002 EPS guidance of $2.85 to $3.05.
This guidance includes the aforementioned Shaw acquisition cost and interest expense of $13 million to $14 million or about $0.10 per diluted share.
Finally we expect to provide 2013 guidance for CBI on a stand-alone basis before the end of the calendar year.
As an aside I can also confirm that we have essentially completed our permanent financing for the Shaw acquisition which is substantially consistent with our prior disclosures that will be re-communicated with the next filing of our form S4.
Lastly Dan spoke to our new awards and prospect activities so I'll provide some overall comments.
Our new awards for the third quarter totaled $930 million and year-to-date new awards are $4.5 billion.
Press release awards for the third quarter of 2012 totaled approximately $400 million.
The approximate $500 million aggregate balance of smaller new awards and project growth was spread nicely around our sectors and product types around the world.
Our backlog totaled to $9.5 billion at the end of the third quarter compared to $9 billion at the beginning of the year.
Now let me take you through the sectors' Q3 results.
Each of our sectors' 2012 results were within our expected annual range of operating results which we have discussed previously.
Specifically our performance expectations our operating income in the range of 7% to 10% for Steel Plate Structures 36% for Project Engineering Construction and annual operating income for Lummus Technology of $110 million to $120 million.
Steel Plate Structures reported third quarter 2012 revenue of $497 million compared to $511 million in 2011.
This slight decrease is attributable to our nearing completion on large projects in the Middle East and in the Caribbean partially offset by the ramp up of our Australian LNG projects.
The Australian LNG work will continue to ramp up and we expect significant revenue growth in 2013.
Operating income totaled $51 million compared to $43 million in 2011.
Increase in operating margin to $10.3 million of revenues for the quarter reflects the impact of net project savings in the quarter offset by the effect of higher percentage of  -- a higher percentage of revenue being derived from cost-reimbursable mechanical erection project in Australia.
In addition other changes in the mix affect that relationship.
Project Engineering Construction revenues totaled $800 million in the third quarter of 2012 an increase of $170 million or 27% from 2011 the most significant increase related to the increased activities on our REFICAR refinery project which Lasse discussed earlier.
The increased revenues generated from our gas processing plant projects in the United States and the Asia-Pacific region.
Income from operations totaled $36 million or 4.5% of revenues compared to $23 million or 3.6% of revenues for 2011.
Our 2012 third quarter results generally benefited from higher revenue volume and better cost recoveries from increased engineering activities somewhat offset by increased level of cost-reimbursable projects volume and higher precontract costs driven by an increase in business development activities around the globe.
Finally our Lummus Technology sector had a fabulous quarter and is well on the way to deliver a spectacular year.
The record new awards of the last year driven by the strong petrochemical market which Dan discussed earlier has contributed to significant revenue and earnings growth.
Revenues totaled $150 million for the quarter an increase of $37 million over the comparable 2011 year -- quarter.
Operating income rose $41 million compared to $27 million last year.
This results benefited from the increased revenue volume and higher margins on licensing activities.
Now a few comments on our balance sheet cash flow and other financial matters as we have many positive developments in the quarter.
Our balance sheet and liquidity remained strong with a cash balance of $655 million up from $553 million at the start of the quarter.
We have no revolver borrowings and cash net of debt of $615 million.
The remaining $40 million of our Lummus global acquisition related debt will be paid off when due in the first half of November.
During the quarter we returned $5 million to our shareholders through cash dividends.
Year-to-date our share repurchase of the dividend totaled $138 million.
Our CapEx in the second quarter was $17 million and $51 million for the third -- first 3 quarters.
We expect full year CapEx to approximate $70 million.
Our investment in contract capital reflecting the combined balance in the receivables contracts and process and accounts payable stands at a negative $462 million at the end of the quarter compared to $540 million at the end of the second quarter due primarily to the change in mix of our projects and the timing of receivable collections.
We expect the portion of the third quarter change will be recovered over the balance of the year.
In closing our strong backlog and financial position provide us with the necessary financial flexibility to deliver our projects and take advantage of the energy market demand for our services.
We are well positioned for opportunities to grow our company and to continue to provide strong returns to our shareholders.
Phil? Thank you Ron.
Now we'll open the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Michael Dudas of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> First question maybe to Dan if you could elaborate about the rapidness of the shale gas phenomenon in the U.S.
It’s of course been well talked about the last 6 to 9 months.
Is it getting much more quicker? And could this lead maybe for Lasse or Phil some real EPC opportunities in the space in 2013 across-the-board? I think the answer to your question is that it's hit and strike today and so the projects that we're planning in 2011 are now going into engineering in 2012.
And I do agree that this is definitely an opportunity for CB&amp;I to do the EPC activities on some of these projects.
Michael just to expand on your question clearly we've seen that.
We saw with the Williams award in Louisiana earlier this year.
And certainly the Occidental fee work which again we were hoping would be converted to EPC sooner but we certainly see that in early 2013 I think are good examples of the market accelerating.
Research Division</strong> You've talked about the integration team's early-stage opportunities.
Is it too early to talk or think about the prospects for projects as a combined company as you're kind of mapping out the planning stage for once you guys get this acquisition done in the first part of next year? And are there any evidence to that is you see through it? From our perspective it's certainly not too early and we have been thinking of that certainly as some of the larger scale projects particularly in the Gulf region are taking shape and being discussed in a very preliminary basis.
We're looking at certain modeling and what the combined company will be able to provide in terms of more integrated solutions to these owners.
So we're certainly looking at that.
We think again the scale is going to provide us with a great position to address these major major projects in front of us.
Research Division</strong> And just one final question maybe for Ron or -- any more certainty on when votes might occur for shareholders? Have we gotten to a point that we're comfortable to come out with something like that? We're getting close.
We're working on comments we received from the SEC.
We'll hopefully have a revised S4 filed shortly.
And of course now with our 10-Q and 10-K available we'll be updating the numbers for those most recent filings.
So hopefully we can get the process through the SEC's final review and continue to look for shareholder votes in likely late November or early or first part of December.
Your next question comes from Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> If I could ask Mike's question in a different way of Dan.
Dan it kind of sounds like you're on a different playing field now mostly due as a PetChem and I know I'm going to push here but I seem to always do that on Lummus Tech.
You talked about 4Q being similar to 3Q.
We know your year is usually back-end loaded but as you look into the future could you continue with this kind of profitability going forward? I think that when we look at year-on-year certainly 2012 will be much better than 2011.
And I think that 2013 will be an improvement over '12.
Whether I could do 40 per quarter for the next year I wouldn't commit to that.
Research Division</strong> I didn't think you would but it was worth asking.
Okay and so maybe Ron or Phil like if you step back and think about your new awards forecast it's $5.5 billion to $7 billion you're at $4.5 billion.
You did a relatively small amount of new awards in the quarter for the small stuff.
I know you're going to tell me that’s sort of average.
But Lasse talked about a lot of big LNG stuff going to FEED next year.
So what's the visibility like in 4Q really around the new awards forecast.
I mean is it focused more on the low end of the range? Could you still do the middle of the range? And can you do it with the small to mid-size jobs? I think this -- certainly this quarter was impacted by a regional anticipation that perhaps the Occidental job would be awarded as full value full EPC which would’ve been several hundred million dollars more than we reported.
And we also anticipated at the beginning of the year that we would see at least one of the large basable [ph] plants be awarded.
As we see it right now we think that's probably unlikely that the major projects that we're seeing in Australia and certainly here in the United States will probably be awarded and go to FID in the first half of next year.
You may hear some other news of those projects progressing in selection but until we get to FID you won't see us split.
So that's really effective.
Now as far as our guidance we think right now is where we're staying.
We certainly see the lower end of that range for new awards being achievable.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
And Ron just to clarify the interest expense line.
As we look into 4Q it should look actually similar to 3Q.
Is that how to sort of model it going forward.
I know you’ve said a lot of stuff there but just to simplify it.
Yes.
The answer is yes.
We'll have more Shaw-related commitment costs.
And that unusual one-time tax item in the third quarter will go away.
And it just so happens to look like the incremental amount on Shaw.
So you got it right.
Your next question comes from Rob Norfleet of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I know you all are going to clearly stick by your margin guidance of 10.5% to 12.5% and obviously this quarter we did above that.
Execution obviously has been great.
One question I want to ask though are you seeing any improvements in pricing or any markets where capacity is tightening which is resulting in some of that incremental margin improvement? We're not seeing it on the actual basis.
We haven't seen any major incremental increase in just what owners are willing to pay in terms of [indiscernible] margins.
We're just seeing better performance on our projects.
I think it has to do with our focus on the work that we know.
Certainly Lummus Technology has a tremendous influence on keeping our margins in a good place.
And our performance on Steel Plate Structure's and work in our Engineering Construction has just been very good.
And I think that's how it's being reflected.
So we're pushing the upper end of that range and we're hoping that that range as it has in previous quarters will move up as we go forward by getting again a stronger and stronger execution.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And my next question just revolves around obviously a lot of the discussion that you're having on the North American petrochemical market.
One of the rationales that you all made in terms of buying Shaw was to have more North American resource capacity in order to bid on some of these larger projects.
As you're looking at the licensing and catalyst all that moving into the EPC role? I mean do you see a point with the Shaw acquisition not closing until March where you are somewhat capacity constrained in bidding some of these larger projects especially if the gas to liquids project were to be bid on the EPC basis in the next 3 months? No we don't see that constrain at all for the bidding on the work that we see.
Actually the timing of the Shaw acquisition is very very advantageous to us in terms of our planning cycle going forward.
As we look forward and we see some of the large projects that Shaw is involved in now and some of the free resources in some of the out years certainly that fits well with what we see in terms of field and fabrication resources for some very large projects needed in the next 3 to 5 years.
Your next question comes from Steven Fisher of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can you just discuss the competition for EPC contracts in the U.S.
chemicals market? And how much has the competitive landscape taken shape over the last 2 months on some of these ethylene and other projects? And I guess Phil if you expect big decisions in the first half of next year I would assume it must be pretty clear by now.
Well we can look at history as some indication of what that competitive landscape will look like.
Certainly I think those companies that have a technology component and capability will have some advantage certainly on early involvement on these jobs.
But these jobs are very large so those jobs that can demonstrate resource capacity technology capability and certainly a good resume you can look at our space and certainly that would include all the major players in our space.
So we expect the competition to be very strong in this petrochemical market and be very inclusive of all the major companies in the United States.
Research Division</strong> Do you have to still bid on the EPC space for Occidental? Well we're hoping as any job that we're doing the front end that we'll be able to successfully convert that on a negotiated basis.
But certainly like most owners Occidental reserves the right tender that work like anybody else.
But we're certainly hopeful that the quality of our work will prove itself and we'll be able to convert that on negotiated basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just shifting gears for a second I'm just curious how the market is developing for you in project D &amp; C segment in international refining and chemicals.
I mean are you seeing any sustainable pick-up in that market and are there any large projects here you're bidding on currently? I think the opportunity in the international market in refining will be largely in Russia.
There's quite a bit of activity there.
And our experience working in that location is very very helpful.
There continues to be opportunity in the Middle East but that tends to be a difficult contract structure.
And we think that there is going to be some increase in activity in the next -- maybe not 2013 but moving towards 2014 even in the U.S.
Our next question comes from Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Actually guys this is Andrew Buscaglia on behalf of Jamie.
One thing that called my interest you guys mentioned the build out or the potential of LNG opportunities in the U.S.
And I was looking if you can give some more color on that and specifically sort of on your timeline of when you see things start moving along or picking up speed.
Well I mean we've -- on our earnings call we've talked about several potential LNG basable [ph] plants being developed around the U.S.
and more is being announced all the time.
Of course we talk talked about our involvement with Freeport LNG and we would anticipate that early in the first half of next year we'll see that project transition from FEED study into EPC contract and we would expect to go forward with that.
Subsequent to that besides [indiscernible] and Freeport we'll see who's next in the queue.
That could range anywhere from certainly Dominion at Cove Point to Sempra as a strong possibility and others.
But certainly there's a good handful in our shortlist of a very viable projects in multi-billion dollar range I think which are certainly feasible and I'm very encouraged in terms of their stages of development.
All right.
And then just one other question.
If you could talk about the Steel Plate Structures segment this quarter.
You think I mean just looking at how the revenues came in if you guys -- how that tracks to according to what you guys were expecting and then sort of what you see going forward in that segment? I think what we talked about last quarter was probably true this quarter will probably continue as there is obviously some sluggishness on the larger Steel Plate Structures project we have at Gorgon not certainly from what we're doing but certainly the entire project is moving slower than anticipated.
So that was certainly a contributing factor.
But again that project will continue to move and gain traction towards the end of this year into next.
The steel plates and the LNG tanks are doing very well and the other flat bound tanks and other steel plate structures around the world are performing as expected.
So nothing that we saw was unexpected.
Lasse do you have anything you want to add? No the market is good for our traditional business and steel plate structures and this quarter I think we came in as we expected with a little bit of a slowdown in Australia but that will pick up again next year.
Your next question comes from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Couple of things.
First of all I guess for Ron or -- in terms of the guidance range it's still pretty wide for the fourth quarter.
Is that just you want to keep what you've had or is it really that much variability to the current quarter? I think we've had history of keeping things where they are and only move them when we see something happening.
And certainly the new news for the quarter is as I mentioned earlier we did add $0.10 into the full year for our 2012-related costs for Shaw transaction.
However I think the strength of the quarter particularly with those numbers coming in as well as it did would give us great confidence that we'll be well within that range so we need to move it.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then secondly Phil or whoever in terms of the opportunities in the North American market and CB&amp;I's position there how do you see this market compared to where you've been working primarily internationally in developed regions in the past years.
And specifically in terms of the size of the project awards I know the size of the projects can be -- is big in North America.
But the way that they'll be bid and awarded and the margin opportunities given competition in your inherent capabilities or advantages in the market could you talk a little bit about that more? Well certainly as you know 2 years ago we didn't have much of a market to talk about at all in North America.
As we're seeing our portfolio we’re being rebalanced in our markets we're pretty encouraged by it.
Part of that is certainly in project type is certainly in our technical range.
A lot of projects within the $200 million to $300 million range is certainly a sweet spot for us in terms of book and [indiscernible] profitability.
And I think certainly and particularly related to how we're growing our scale and the additional service we’ll be able to provide in pipe fabrication as well as steel plate structures we can address a lot of aspects of the very large petrochemical and basable [ph] plants that we saw.
So even if we might miss an opportunity in the prime contract with some of these projects we certainly have a wide range of type of offerings that we could participate at some level or some very good scopes of work.
So we're quite encouraged.
The difference in the margins we haven't seen that.
We see pretty much around the world of that bandwidth that we've talked about relative to our technology offerings and we announce it to our tank and EPC offerings.
In terms of our potential for [indiscernible] we think those margins are certainly sustainable within that bandwidth and that's what we expect from North America.
Research Division</strong> So if I'm hearing you right it sounds as if the awards could be lot more midsized or smaller awards.
And does that mean that it will be less lumpy but did it also mean that you won't get multi years of visibility that you've had at times in the past? No I think we will give that multiple years of visibility and I'm not suggesting awards are small.
To me a few hundred million dollars is a large project.
But there's going to be some very very large projects in terms of some of the export facilities and some of the very large petrochemicals and potential gas to liquid developments over the next several years.
So we'll have a lot of visibility in all of that.
We don't envision a market opportunity that we won't have a look at.
And certainly we're planning to participate in that and certainly all those markets in North America.
Your next question comes from Chase Jacobson with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask another question here on the timing of some of these large LNG projects.
I mean it always seems that they take a little bit longer to move forward in their respected -- that's not a huge surprise.
But over the last few weeks I feel like we've been seeing more news of owners maybe reassessing final investment decisions not just because they're taking a little bit longer but because there are so many projects out there and there's potentially some price competition between some of these projects.
Could you comment on that at all? And what gives you confidence that this won't happen on the projects that CBI is positioned on? Well I can't guarantee that there's not going to be some change in timing on the projects.
In fact we almost would anticipate that.
I can't tell you what's being told to us by the owners in the development of those projects and again if you take Browse as a good example they are getting very near to their selection of EPC contractor.
We will anticipate that they'll -- after the Board meeting at the end of the year we'll be prepared to announce some of that.
Certainly it will be premature for us to take a leg right now.
But again as we said that will not be backlog for us until they get their final financial approvals.
We haven't seen any change in that although there's as you said much speculation around the industry.
The U.S.
export facilities certainly we've seen some delay in the Freeport job.
We've also seen some interests by other major owners in that project which I think will certainly accelerate the development of -- potentially accelerate the development of that work.
And then there's the others that are in the queue.
So none of this is really coming as a real surprise but as you accurately say it's all subject to timing and they do have a long cycle time.
And even once awarded and this is one of the things that we like to remind people even once awarded we still don't see huge returns in terms of revenue for those projects for at least about a year or so until the engineering is substantially complete and we get into the deal.
So there are long cycle times and time is certainly a factor here when we try to forecast our new award guidance and our backlog.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one other question.
I think I've probably asked this in the past but when you look at petrochem opportunities particularly on the EPC side are you seeing opportunities with customers in the current market that you might not have in the past because of having one less technology -- I think we're seeing customers that we haven't seen in a very long time.
Because of the opportunity and exactly because of variables that Dan talked about in terms of the pricing situation and just the landscape out there and the availability and abundance of gas.
So we haven't seen some of these owners in a very long time but they're not necessarily new certainly to Lummus technology.
I think what we've also recognized is that buying services from these owners tend to be a bit different that refineries perhaps and that they tend to bundle more of the technology with the basic engineering.
And if you have a delivery solution your opportunity to perhaps stay involved on the EPC I think is greater than certainly in other oil and gas opportunities.
Your next question comes from Scott Levine of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Talking about the U.S.
coming back here.
I was wondering if you could provide a little bit more specifics and color regarding your outlook for the power markets.
And when you talk about large projects over the next 3 to 5 years how important is power nuclear otherwise within your growth horizon your expectation on that market moving forward in '13 and beyond? Certainly one of the analyses that we did in terms of potential market opportunities and justification partial justification certainly for this acquisition is the opportunity for infrastructure projects in a market segment which we are not necessarily -- which we are participating in.
So as you look at the data that would support the conversion to gas-fired power plants and combined cycle power plants those opportunities are going to be significant.
So even beyond nuclear and the only thing we've really anticipated was the 2 that we -- the backlog from the 2 that we are working on.
Certainly we recognize that it's a natural step for us as far as our involvement in gas prices in natural gas business LNG to certainly looking at power generation as another source of opportunity for us on infrastructure work.
So it's all around the energy and we're certainly encouraged by what we see in terms of development.
Research Division</strong> And could that conceivably be as your large market for you a couple of years out as some of the other major energy markets that you're in today or is it too early to really tell? I don't think it's too early.
I think we're looking at the same day that you are going for and we think it can be a tremendous market opportunity.
And the one thing that we really like about this acquisition is we are buying the #1 company arguably in that industry.
So I think we have a great advantage in terms of existing relationships that Shaw brings with their customer base and the reputation in that business.
So I think we're starting off in a good place and we're certainly hopeful that will continue.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
One follow-up on you have the step-up here I think this quarter with the noncontrolling interest on Gorgon MEI.
Maybe for Ron or Phil can you give us an understanding of how that's going to trend? I don't know if you covered this in 2013 should we expect a major step-up in that line item into '13? Or any other specifics could offer will be helpful there.
Sure.
We tried to give you a heads up on that a year ago on our Investor Day and unfortunately we missed this by a little bit just simply because of the pace of these projects.
But in our original guidance underlying guidance we talked about what's sort of this rate $6 million perhaps a little bit more kind of minority interest number and I would look for that to go forward particularly as this project dissipates.
Research Division</strong> $6 million per quarter on a kind of steady-state environment or are we still ramping? We're still ramping a little bit but it won't -- I don't think we'll get to double digits in the quarter.
Your final question comes from Will Gabrielski of Lazard Capital Market.
Research Division</strong> So can you talk about both the award opportunity and competitiveness currently in Steel Pipe Structures? And specifically around the award opportunity I guess if we were to see some of the Brownfield LNG expansion projects move forward that you have exposure to like Gorgon or PNG would there be incremental MEI or tank work done on those facilities? And then just from a competitive standpoint can you talk about that broadly speaking? Lass would you want to address that? Yes most of the conversions here in the U.S.
will come with additional storage capacity or capability requirements.
And the same goes for the projects when they expand in other parts of the world.
So typically you see MEI opportunity and an additional tank on these projects.
Typically what we're seeing in those developments is they will -- they did separately the tank work is early works and that's something we can do independent.
Even if we're looking at FEED work or preliminary engineering on some of these projects we'd still go ahead and tender the tank work as we've seen and that's good for the owner to get early work started as well as us.
The competitiveness certainly throughout the world certainly a lot of the Japanese are very competitive with this out there and certainly in the U.S.
we expect to see others that will be competing for us in the market.
It's a little more fragmented here so that really depends on the size of the project but certainly on the large projects we are very competitive here in the U.S.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess in the Middle East specifically there's been some news about a competitor winning a project and I know it's been a more competitive market but has anything changed there? Unfortunately not.
That tends to be a very tight very competitive market for us.
We're very careful in terms of which products we're selecting.
But that still hasn't changed in terms of extremely competitive market.
Again we tend to be more competitive on those value-add type opportunities cryogenic or LPG storage or those types than certainly the large tank bonds or flat bottom tanks.
So those are the opportunities we're going to continue to focus on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the U.S.
given that you're -- it sounds like you've taken a step forward in terms of your confidence around what the spending cycle is going to look like here.
Your ability to hire at this point and allocate resources around those projects I guess within the broader landscape of the construction industry there's certainly still an employment problem or an unemployment problem but I guess what specialty skills are you guys going to require for these projects and how does that market look in terms of hiring? Well it's going to be the important question going forward.
I mean if we're looking at the market as soon as 2014 we're talking about 87 000 potential construction workers needed for just the energy infrastructure market we see alone in the U.S.
11 000 engineering procurement fabrication these are large numbers.
Certainly engineering and in engineering we have an opportunity to certainly spread among the number of resource centers we have.
The construction workers you rightly pointed out it's about 16% of employment in the Gulf Coast it's going to require a lot of training a lot of work on the part of companies like ours but you got the skill sets and that's going to have a cost and productivity issues until the work starts stabilizing.
We haven't seen this kind of investment potential in the United States for many many years.
But we'll take a period of time to get the craft labor to the point where it's productive as it was certainly a couple of decades ago.
Research Division</strong> Will you guys be comfortable taking any lump-sum risk? I think most of these projects will be a combination.
Certainly there's areas of the projects that we can certainly be comfortable taking fixed price work.
It depends on a lot on the owners appetite for risk and premiums associated with that risk.
So it really just depends.
Certainly there's some of these project that are in the couple of $100 million $300 million range we've demonstrated we’re quite willing to look at that on a fixed-price basis.
But as these projects get larger as with any market certainly the risk premiums become substantial.
And we find that owners are willing to look at more of a mix contract or our hybrid contract on those opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then really quickly.
I just want to give you guys a chance to talk to the guidance from Shaw on Friday.
I know you said you really want to get into it but just sort of an opportunity if you would to comment on it or pass on it if you would.
Well I’ll just say the important numbers we saw coming out of certainly their announcement was a confirmation of their cash balances which was obviously important to us in closing and their progress on EBITDA and their I guess their earnings and that was better certainly than expected.
Remember the $200 million EBITDA threshold was 4 quarters preceding close and they've achieved that and exceeded that after 3.
As far as the guidance certainly it's in line with what we saw in terms of our management projections it wasn’t anything surprising to us.
They certainly have the inside on those markets and we certainly think that they're in good shape going forward and we have every confidence that we'll be able to close this deal in February.
We have reached the allotted time for questions.
I would now like to turn the call back to the leaders for closing remarks.
Thank you.
We appreciate everyone's interest.
Just as a footnote there's been a lot of questions in terms of our giving guidance for 2013.
We certainly plan to do that and we'll get more information out to you before the end of the year.
As you know we had deferred our investment day because of this acquisition until early next year.
We still plan to do that but as far as our guidance we will be hosting a special call for our guidance certainly before the end of the calendar year.
So we'll give more information on that.
But that will conclude our call and we certainly appreciate your participation and your interest.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good afternoon.
My name is Jody and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the CB&amp;I Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before beginning today's call the company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company's press release and the SEC filings.
While forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcomes or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we report Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron's Fourth Quarter and Year End 2012 Results.
With me today are CB&amp;I's Chief Operating Officer Lasse Petterson who will report on project backlog and steel plate structures; Dan McCarthy President of Lummus Technology; and our Chief Financial Officer Ron Ballschmiede who will discuss our overall financial performance.
We're very pleased to report a very strong quarter and a great year.
A metric we're exceptionally proud of this year is achievement of 0 lost time accidents in our project in engineering and construction group.
This 0 represents nearly 40 million man-hours both direct and subcontract on projects from Canada to Serbia Colombia to Papua New Guinea and everywhere in between.
This is an outstanding achievement by all of those responsible for our projects and offices around the world.
Our Steel Plate Structure business also had an extraordinary safety record with only 4 lost time accidents in 30 million man-hours including all of our field and fabrication sites.
As CB&amp;I in total has not had a single fatality in over 2.5 years and 170 million man-hours work we thank everyone for their dedication to the basic principle that nobody gets hurt at CB&amp;I and proving 0 accidents is certainly possible.
Now we remain very confident that with our focus in LNG gas processing petrochemicals offshore and other engineering construction opportunities combined with the great returns we are seeing from our technology sector and our global market position in the fabrication erection of steel plate structures we are entering 2013 in an extremely strong position to capitalize on the continuing development of energy infrastructure in the U.S.
and around the world.
And as Ron will reaffirm our 2013 guidance for CB&amp;I which we provided in December is unchanged.
Some of the new business we were awarded in the fourth quarter include: Aramco storage tanks and spheres in Saudi Arabia spheres in Equador a Co2 removal plant for Exxon Australia offshore marine field developments for DSME and Statoil in the North Sea technology awards from Shell in Singapore and Westlake in the U.S.
plus a petrochemical owner in Korea.
And the last one Dan will provide the detail but I wanted to highlight the broad diversity in our new awards and the fact that we entered 2013 with $11 billion of backlog.
And while each of our business sectors experienced substantial growth over the last year in revenue income from operations and new business we should highlight that Lummus Technology exceeded all of our prior forecasts and posted record numbers in earnings and new awards but I'll let Dan tell that story in a moment.
Looking forward we're confident in our end markets producing results that can potentially exceed our expectations particularly if one or more of the mega LNG projects we're currently involved with in the early works receive final go-ahead for an EPC contract.
We're also seeing the continuation of the petrochemical and gas processing projects being developed in the U.S.
and the global storage market continues to be strong in most geographic areas.
While technology sales are increasing in the fast pace as the U.S.
Russia Asia Pacific drive global petrochemical growth in ethylene and derivatives.
But before we report the details of CB&amp;I year-end results I want to briefly mention the new CB&amp;I which as you know reached financial close on the Shaw acquisition on February 13 following the achievement of all of the conditions specified in our agreement and approved by well over 90% of the shareholders.
So until we get all the numbers merged and forecasted leading up to our Investor Day guidance on March 28 it's premature to say much at this point except that the immediate transition was virtually seamless as offices with all of 250 000 employees up on CB&amp;I email CB&amp;I signs on the offices and at the project sites and in our fabrication facilities 26 000 new CB&amp;I hard hats issued and much more and all happened on Day 1.
Many thanks go to those at both companies who worked so hard to ensure that we became one CB&amp;I on February 13.
The integration continues.
And if you've noted the organization announcements that were released the first day beginning in the first quarter we'll be reporting to you results in 4 operating groups: technology; ECM or engineering construction and maintenance; fabrication services; and government solutions.
The name should be fairly self-explanatory but it continues our goal of scaling our business model by grouping like businesses together to leverage the talent and the unique commercial aspects of each unit.
Again the overall mix of the combined company will be a better geographical balance of 50-50 U.S.
to international backlog 50-50 between fixed-price and reimbursable or hybrid contracts and most important is that over 75% -- 70% of our total earnings will come from a much more diverse and predictable revenue stream than in a model that is solely dependent on engineering and construction projects.
So I'll pause here and turn it over to Lasse Dan and Ron for the quarter 4 and year-end results.
Lasse? Thank you Phil.
Good afternoon.
As in the last earnings call I'll give my comments on some trends in our key markets including the new awards this quarter and then provide a brief update on some of our larger ongoing projects.
Market trends are positive in all our oil and gas markets.
LNG liquefaction projects are developing in Australia and U.S.
and Russia as previously reported.
And we now see new projects emerging in Canada and East Africa.
We have completed the FEED for the Browse and Arrow projects in Australia and the Yamal projects in Russia.
Both Browse and Yamal is targeting EPC contractor selection and final investment decision during 2013.
In North America we are currently executing the FEED studies for the conversion of existing LNG import terminals to export terminals at both Freeport Texas and at Cove Point Maryland.
In December we were awarded a front-end engineering contract by Anadarko for our liquefaction plant in Mozambique.
The petrochemical products market continued to be strong worldwide with high demands for ethylene propylene butadiene ammonia ammonium nitrate and other related derivatives.
In the U.S.
shale gas production with liquid rich gas has resulted in a surge of new petrochemical projects as well as associated storage tank prospects.
As previously reported CB&amp;I have been awarded contracts from both Williams and Westlake for new ethylene production expansion and we have begun basic engineering FEED work for Occidental on a grassroots ethylene plant.
In Europe we were awarded a butadiene extraction unit in Antwerp Belgium by BASF.
And further east we're executing an ethylene FEED and extended basic engineering contract for NKNK in Tatarstan Russia.
Within gas processing we were awarded an EPC project by DONG on their Hejre Crude Stabilization Project in Jutland Denmark valued in excess of USD 175 million.
And we were awarded a major EPC contract by Exxon for their Longford gas plant in Victoria Australia valued at more than USD 550 million.
The offshore oil and gas market is also strong particularly in the North Sea where we in the fourth quarter were awarded the Topsides engineering for Statoil's Mariner field in the U.K.
sector together with DSME valued in excess of USD 250 million.
And we were awarded the Topsides engineering contract for Statoil's Aasta Hansteen field in the Norwegian sector together with Hyundai valued approximately at USD 150 million.
This is the first time a spar platform a deep floater concept used in the Gulf of Mexico will be installed in the North Sea and the top size weight will be above 20 000 tons.
This award will be in our first quarter 2013 report.
On floating LNG we are engaged in 3 feed studies and we are developing EPC pricing for these projects together with partners.
Both the offshore and floating LNG market provide opportunities where we can leverage our technology and engineering competences into enhanced EPC project participation.
Steel Plate Structures has added a number of small and medium-size storage tanks projects in strong markets in the U.S.
Canada and the Middle East.
The largest new award was for Sadara Aramco Dow in Saudi Arabia valued in excess of USD 110 million.
In Asia the market for LNG import terminals is active and we are hopeful to announce a new terminal award this quarter.
With awards in the fourth quarter of USD 2.8 billion our new awards for 2012 reached $7.3 billion and our backdrop is close to $11 billion for CB&amp;I with a good mix between reimbursable and lump sum contracts.
Moving to our existing projects I will start with the projects engineering and construction business sector.
The construction work at REFICAR's new refinery in Cartagena Colombia is progressing well.
All 85 process modules from our fabrication yard in Beaumont has been received and most installed at site along with 1 300 pieces of equipment 26 000 tons of field erected steel and over 350 000 feet of pipe.
Our manpower in the project currently exceeds 9 500 and we are now busy connecting the modules with piping hookup and have begun E&amp;I works.
In Canada on the Kearl initial development project construction work is nearly complete and the client is now commissioning the plant.
On the sister project the Kearl Expansion Project engineering is complete and we have started work in the field north of Fort McMurray.
A new module assembly yard at Fort Saskatchewan is fully operational and 263 modules for Kearl Expansion project and Kearl Expansion interconnect pipe rack will be built there and then installed at the Kearl site in 2013 and '14.
In the U.S.
at Dominion's gas processing plant in Natrium West Virginia mechanical completion for the first phase is scheduled for March.
The work at site has been somewhat delayed by the storm Sandy and heavy winter weather.
In Europe the NIS Pancevo Oil Refinery modernization project in Serbia has been completed.
And on the BASF project at Belgium engineering is ongoing in our Hague office and we are mobilized at the site.
In the U.K.
our work to install an additional LNG import pipeline at the Isle of Grain terminal is proceeding well and on schedule to be completed in the third quarter this year.
The engineering works for Nexen's Golden Eagle platform is nearing completion and we are mobilizing now for Statoil's Mariner project.
In Papua New Guinea on Exxon's Hides Gas Conditioning plant in the highlands as stated last quarter engineering is complete.
Procurement materials and equipment has now been finalized and in the process of being shipped to the site.
The on-site construction has encouraged some delay due to the challenging logistics of bringing materials and equipment to the site and the client is constructing an airstrip that can land Antonov cargo planes that can carry the 40-ton major equipment packages to site once the airstrip is complete later this year.
I said earlier we were awarded an EPC contract by Exxon for more than USD 550 million to build a gas processing plant in Victoria Australia.
We're currently mobilizing the product management and engineering team in our Singapore office.
Shifting to our Steel Plate Structures business sector progress on our 4 containment vessels for the 2 nuclear projects Vogtle and Summer has been good in the period with welling [ph] quality continuing to be excellent.
In Canada and the U.S.
we have several large conventional storage tanks contracts underway all of which are progressing on schedule.
And in the Middle East the GASCO project in Abu Dhabi has been completed well ahead of the original schedule and the client continues to engage CB&amp;I on additional mechanical work on a reimbursable basis.
Shifting to Australia on the Gorgon MEI project we have mobilized more than 500 strong management team in Perth and we have received and installed first [ph] 19 modules on the permanent foundations and additional 59 modules has been received on Barrow Island.
Our project staffing on the island is close to 300 which is less than originally planned.
Over the next year we will receive in total more than 400 modules coming from 4 fabrication yards in Asia.
This is a construction-only contract for CB&amp;I and with all engineering materials logistics and process module fabrication provided by the client.
The majority of the construction scope will be performed in 2013 and '14 and at peak more than 4 000 CB&amp;I employees will be engaged on the project.
We're also constructing two 180 000 cubic meter of full containment LNG tanks for the Gorgon project.
The roof raise for both tanks has been successfully completed well ahead of this year's cyclone season and we are now proceeding with welding the 9 nickel tanks well protected from any adverse weather.
Both our contracts on Barrow Island has experienced a slower ramp up than initially planned transferring work scope into 2013 and '14.
This has been due to delays experienced by the clients' civil contractor as well as difficult logistics associated with the island location.
Our plans has been modified to accommodate these changes.
On Curtis Island on the East Coast of Australia we are erecting 2 full containment 160 000 cubic meter LNG tanks for ConocoPhillips APLNG project.
The project is progressing on schedule.
And last year we were awarded a USD 225 million EPC contract for LNG Peak Shaving facility in New South Wales Australia which includes a 63 000 cubic meter single containment LNG storage tanks.
The engineering is progressing well and we are mobilized to the site.
And finally a project on the coast of Papua New Guine a close to Port Moresby where we are building 2 single containment 160 000 cubic meter LNG storage tanks for Exxon's LNG project is on schedule to be completed this year.
I will now hand it over to Dan to comment on Lummus Technology.
Thank you Lasse and good afternoon.
As a charter member of this 25-year old technology business I am honored and excited to be able to report on behalf of those who have developed this business in the past as well as those who have executed the work in 2012.
New rewards for the fourth quarter totaled $144 million bringing the annual total to $727 million.
This exceeds last year's record of $538 million by 35%.
While we do not specify details of the CLG's performance it also had a breakout year.
If their new awards were added to those of Lummus Technology the result would be over $1 billion.
These awards are driving income from operations which was $40.9 million for the fourth quarter and $126 million for the year.
CLG through the equity income line had a large contribution to income from operations in the fourth quarter.
Cash generation was also strong.
The new awards in the fourth quarter were led by 2 ethylene furnace projects associated with ethylene plant expansions; one in the United States and one in Asia-Pacific.
There are also 3 license awards associated with C4 processing.
The first was a gasoline alkylate plant our fourth alkylate project in 2012.
The second was a plant to dehydrogenate C4s for further processing.
And the third was a facility to chemically synthesize butadiene from butane.
On the CLG side the fourth quarter sales are extremely high with 3 license awards and enormous amount of catalyst sales.
I would like to come back to the butadiene project award.
Butadiene is a critical building block for the synthetic rubber industry.
The demand for buta-3 rubber continues to grow but the supply of butadiene is constrained.
Almost all butadiene is produced as a byproduct of ethylene plants using liquid feedstocks.
However feedstock economics have incentivized ethylene producers to switch from liquid to gas feeds.
A new plant capacity in the Middle East and the United States will be based on ethane.
To overcome the butadiene supply constraint we have been promoting a chemical synthesis route with the trade name CATADIENE for a number of years.
In the fourth quarter we secured our first license with an Asian petrochemical producer who will supply raw material to a tire manufacturer.
As with the gasoline alkylate business we believe that this first license opens the door to multiple opportunities around the world.
The refining business was surprisingly robust in 2012.
While operating rates and profit margins continued to challenge refiners we saw significant improvements in licensing catalyst sales.
The projects often represent additional processing capability in existing refineries to address fuel specs or to produce upgraded products such as lubricants.
For 2013 our prospect list supports the continued strong market for petrochemicals and refining.
The ethylene and propylene prospect backlog remains healthy leveraging feedstocks recovered from shale gas.
These projects are not only being planned in the United States but also internationally.
Additionally ethylene licenses awarded in 2011 and 2012 should generate substantial opportunity for heat transfer equipment sales.
Our forecast indicates new awards in 2013 will include a higher percentage of heat transfer equipment.
In previous earnings calls when Lummus Technology's new awards have been in the range of $140 million to $150 million there have been questions about whether we are now operating on a new plateau.
I would like to provide some perspective on that issue.
Part of our growth is certainly attributable to very high levels of investments in petrochemical projects.
Market dynamics indicate that petrochemical investments will continue to be strong but more important is the impact of new technology on our business.
In 2012 we introduced new technology products such as paraxylene CATADIENE and butadiene new olefins conversion applications gasoline alkylation hydrogen purification and even biojet fuel production.
The new award value for these technologies is approximately $120 million.
We anticipate these markets will continue to generate new revenue opportunities.
So indeed there is a significant organic growth through product diversification.
In summary we will continue to exploit traditional and newly introduced technologies.
The addition of hydrogen and sulfur recovery technologies will integrate well with our CLG technology offerings.
The organizations associated with these technologies will create better opportunities for us to supply components and modules desired by our licensees.
We will continue to pursue opportunities to broaden our technology portfolio through acquisition partnering and R&amp;D.
Finally we will take strides to position ourselves to expand our catalyst business.
Thank you for your attention.
And I will turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Dan and good afternoon everyone.
With that overview of our major sector activities and our markets around the world let me take you through our financial performance for another strong quarter and year.
Revenue for the fourth quarter was $1.5 billion up $282 million or 22% from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Full year revenue totaled $5.5 billion up from $4.6 billion in 2011 or up 21%.
The year-over-year revenue increase was consistent with our expectations and reflects our higher beginning of the period backlog and continued increase of construction activity on our major projects and increasing revenues from Lummus Technology.
We previously announced our CB&amp;I standalone 2013 revenue guidance range of $6.3 billion to $6.7 billion an indicative increase of 19% based upon the midpoint of our guidance.
This revenue growth reflects the continued high activity in ramp up of several large projects in our backlog and the absolute increase in our year-over-year backlog.
Our 2013 revenue burn is expected to be 45% to 50% of our record 2012 backlog of $10.9 billion.
This backlog burn compares to 40% to 45% for 2012 and reflects the increase in construction activities of our long-duration projects such as Gorgon MEI and the PNG gas plant.
Finally with our strong backlog position we expect our 2013 first quarter revenues to be generally consistent with our 2012 fourth quarter and subsequent quarterly revenue increasing some mixing sequentially throughout 2013.
Our gross profit for the fourth quarter set a high watermark at $198 million compared to $147 million in 2011.
Our gross profit for the quarter was 12.9% of revenue positively impacted by the strong fourth quarter performance of Lummus Technology.
The full year gross profit of $699 million or 12.7% of revenue reflects $128 million increase over 2011.
Each of our sectors contributed significant revenue gross profit and operating income growth.
Selling and administrative expense remains well controlled decreasing to 3.9% of revenue for the fourth quarter and 4.2% for the full year reflecting a 10 and 30 basis point improvement over the comparable periods.
As discussed in our December guidance call our CB&amp;I standalone 2013 selling and administrative expense is expected to increase in the mid-single-digit percentage range.
The increase reflects global inflation and a minor volume impact essentially repeating the estimate-related operating leverage improvement which we experienced in 2012.
As an important reminder when thinking of stock-based compensation cost GAAP requires certain stock-based compensation to retiree eligible participants to be expensed in the quarter in which the awards are made.
CB&amp;I's long-term incentive compensation awards are made in the first quarter.
Consequently the aforementioned accounting results in almost 2/3 of our full year stock-based compensation expense being recorded in the first quarter predominantly within S&amp;A In terms of EPS the expense in the first quarter of 2013 is expected to incrementally exceed the stock-based compensation expense of the second third and fourth quarters by approximately $0.15 per share.
Other operating expense includes Shaw-related transaction costs of $6 million and $11 million for the fourth quarter and full year respectively.
Additionally Shaw-related financing commitment costs were $5.5 million and $7.2 million for those same periods.
On a combined basis Shaw-related costs reduced our earnings by $0.09 in the fourth quarter and $0.15 for the full year.
Fourth quarter operating income totaled $139 million our best quarter on record or 9% of revenues.
Full year operating income totaled $456 million also an all-time high reflecting a 28% increase over our 2011 results.
Over the trailing 3-year period our operating margins have totaled 8.1% of revenues reflecting the quality of our backlog solid project execution and the relative contribution of each of our sectors.
Net interest expense for 2012 fourth quarter totaled $6 million an increase of $5 million over the comparable 2011 quarter and increased $8 million to $12 million for the full year.
The change for each of these periods was predominantly the Shaw-related financing commitment cost I spoke to earlier.
Our income tax rate was 26.7% for the quarter and 28.6% for the full year.
We do expect our 2013 effective income tax rate to increase slightly reflecting the changing geographic mix of our backlog to higher tax rate jurisdictions.
Our net income to noncontrolling interest increased by $7 million for the fourth quarter and $15 million for the full year reflecting the increased activities of our 2 large projects with 35% minority partners specifically Gorgon MEI and the PNG gas plant.
We expect consolidated noncontrolling interest to be slightly in excess of $30 million in 2013.
The summation of all that results in the fourth quarter net income of $90 million or $0.91 per diluted share and earnings per share on the full year of $3.07 an all-time high for the fourth consecutive year.
EBITDA totaled $154 million in the fourth quarter and $522 million for the year or 10% and 9.5% of revenues respectively.
Finally as a reminder in December we've provided 2013 CB&amp;I standalone EPS guidance of $3.35 to $3.65.
Phil Lasse and Dan spoke to our new awards and prospect activity so I'll provide some overall comments.
Our new awards for the fourth quarter totaled $2.9 billion and totaled $7.4 billion for the full year which provides us with a full year book burn of 1.33.
We announced major awards during the quarter of approximately $1.1 billion spread nicely around the world amongst our sectors and project types.
Fourth quarter new awards of smaller projects were approximately $800 million with a balance reflecting contract growth from several of our large projects.
Our prospects going into 2013 including our already announced awards which Lasse spoke about earlier provide us with confidence of our new our guidance of $7 billion to $10 billion for 2013.
Our backlog totaled $10.9 billion at the end of the year compared to $9 billion at the beginning of the year.
As I previously mentioned our 2012 backlog burn is expected to be 45% to 50% and based on our new award and revenue guidance we expect to grow backlog again in 2013.
Now let me take you through the sectors' fourth quarter results.
Each of our sectors' fourth quarter and full year results were within our expected range of operating results which we have discussed previously specifically our performance expectations and operating income in the range of 7% to 10% for Steel Plate Structures 3% to 6% for PEC and annual operating income for Lummus Technology in the $125 million range.
Steel Plate Structures reported fourth quarter and full year 2012 revenues of $542 million and $1 billion respectively -- I'm sorry $2 billion respectively an increase of 14% and 18% over the respective prior periods.
The increase is attributable to the ramp-up of our Asia Pacific LNG projects offset somewhat by the completion of large tank projects in the Middle East and the Caribbean.
The Asia Pacific LNG work will continue to ramp up and we expect significant revenue growth from these projects in 2013.
Operating income totaled $55 million or 10.1% of revenue for the fourth quarter and $193 million or 9.8% for the full year.
Our 2012 operating results generally benefited from higher revenue volume and better cost recoveries from increased construction activities.
Project engineering and construction revenues totaled $848 million in the fourth quarter up $194 million a strong 30% increase over 2011.
For the full year PEC's revenue increased 33% to $3 billion.
The revenue increase for both the quarter and the year was driven by greater construction activities on our Colombia refining project and gas processing plants in PNG in the United States.
Income from operations totaled $43 million or 5.1% of revenue for the fourth quarter compared to $29 million or 4.5% in 2011.
For the full year income from operations totaled $137 million or 4.5%.
Our 2012 operating results benefited from the additional volume of work somewhat offset by a percentage of revenue base because of higher percentage of completion of revenue we generated from our cost reimbursable projects and higher pre-contract spend on the large projects which Lasse described earlier.
Finally Lummus Technology had another fabulous quarter reporting operating income of $41 million up $11 million over the fourth quarter of 2011.
Full year operating income totaled $126 million up $30 million or 31% over the prior year.
Fourth quarter and full year revenues and operating results benefited from the continued strength of the petrochemical demand and the improving refining market which Dan just described.
Now a few comment on our balance sheet cash flow and other financial matters as we have many positive developments in the quarter.
Our balance sheet and liquidity remained strong with a cash balance of $643 million compared to $672 million at the beginning of the year.
This strong cash position reflects investments in growing our business through capital expenditures of $72 million and making the final installment on our Lummus acquisition debt of $40 million earlier this -- in the third quarter -- in the fourth quarter of 2012.
In addition we returned $143 million of cash to our shareholders through $123 million of stock repurchases and approximately $20 million of cash dividends.
We had no revolver borrowings in 2012.
Our borrowings to execute the Shaw acquisition totaled $1.8 billion which includes a 4-year $1 billion term loan and an $800 million senior note issuance maturing over 5 to 12 years.
In order to lock in the favorable terms of the senior notes we completed that transaction on December 28 2012.
Accordingly you will note that both borrowings and $800 million of restricted cash on our year-end balance sheet.
Obviously that cash was utilized earlier this month as part of the Shaw transaction consideration.
Our investment and contract capital reflecting the combined balances of receivables contracts in progress and accounts payable stands at a negative $357 million at the end of the year compared to $700 million at the beginning of the year primarily due to the decline -- is primarily due to the changing mix of our projects and the timing of receivable collections.
We expect that a portion of the 2012 change will be recovered in 2013.
In closing our strong backlog and financial position provided us with the necessary financial flexibility to deliver our projects to our owners and take advantage of the energy market demand for our services.
We continue to be well positioned to take advantage of opportunities to grow our company and are committed to continuing to provide strong return to our shareholders.
Phil? Thanks Ron.
Now we'll open the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Dudas from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> First question is -- look I won't get you and we'll until March for all the questions on the new CB&amp;I.
But as you're looking -- you had a terrific Q4 results.
As you look into the first part of 2013 on the new business and looking at your fabrication utilization do you sense generally that business trends are still quite good? Is that translating to better negotiated strength for contracts in some of your key markets? If you are talking just fabrication first I think  as Lasse indicated the Steel Plate Structures -- and again as you'll see from the organization we still have 2 distinct units under fabrication services Steel Plate Structures and the fabrication manufacturing business that we acquired look very strong.
We don't see any dilution of the historically I think good margins that Shaw had generated for the fabrication manufacturing.
They still have a very good external and global market that we plan to capitalize on.
And with Steel Plate Structures the global storage demand is still very very strong in most of the geographic areas that we work in.
So the combination of the 2 becomes how do we increase and maximize any efficiencies between both legacy businesses.
And I think there's a tremendous opportunity there.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And just to follow-up maybe on Ron's last comment about debt and cash flow et cetera maybe you can remind us how we're thinking about capital deployment debt repayment versus share or return or additional acquisitions or investment in the company -- in the new company? Yes I'll let Ron talk to the detail but just to give you a sense of what we're going to talk about at Investor Day in the breakout session that we are going to talk about our capital utilization plan going forward and talk about how we do plan to deploy the capital.
But Ron do you want to add some color to that? Absolutely.
I think the objective from the beginning of doing the funding for the Shaw transaction was to accomplish a couple of things notably to remain an investment grade credit which we of course accomplished but also to have financial flexibility and some very long-term capital.
So as we look at that $1.8 billion -- when you start dissecting it as I mentioned that $800 million comes through -- comes to somewhere between in tranches between 5 and 12 years.
So it's a nice mix of -- that's our fixed price a little bit under 5% and $1 billion of borrowings which is a 4-year term debt that can be pre-paid without penalty.
Having said that the intent would be to certainly run 2013 and make sure we understand all the characteristics of what we would acquire and be relatively.
conservative about making big moves on paying down debt or otherwise.
We always want the ability to grow our business particularly the technology side for opportunities that come up around new technologies.
I think after that what we would look at is continuing to have powder to do transactions but also revisit as we've done in the past the way we return money to our shareholders.
So first opportunity is continue to grow second one is to -- obviously we want to continue our dividends.
And then lastly return some money to our shareholders when it makes some sense.
And I think the crystal ball would be out there years -- back end of year 2 and 3 and 4 see some pretty heavy debt repayments in excess of the amortization.
So that if you take yourself out 5 years we'd probably have worked that debt down to give or take $1 billion and be very comfortable that even at that point in time our debt has an average duration of around $8 billion -- I mean 8 years.
So that's sort of the master plan on that.
To the most extent much similar to what we've been doing for the last 4 5 years taking advantage of all those 3 levers.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Dan or Ron or Phil can you talk about Lummus Technology a little more in the context of -- you mentioned you're sort of on a new playing field.
You've done $41 million in operating profit for the last couple of quarters.
Can you sustain that kind of momentum going forward on a quarterly basis? I think your guidance was $125 million for '13.
But I don't know the transcript from last quarter says $225 million.
So maybe you could just give us some color there.
I'll let Dan give you the detail on it Andy.
But again I think the takeaway that Dan was trying to talk about was the absolute value we're getting from new technologies.
So that's kind of the plateau that we were talking about.
Dan is that correct? Yes absolutely with $120 million worth of sales in new technology.
So we think our -- going to be -- it's a lumpy business.
I'm not going to say it's going to be $120 million every year.
But as a mean it's probably not a bad number to think about.
And that generates our typical margins.
So if you've followed us over a few years you'd sort of see what the additional amount could be.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But Dan without sort of pinning you down you're at decently higher run rate than $120 million or $125 million.
Fair? Excuse me? A run rate of about $120 million $125 million.
The run rates going forward? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean of earnings.
I mean that -- the second half of the game.
Well that's our -- that's always our objective is to try to get that up.
We're not going to necessarily commit to $160 million.
No.
Of course not.
Even in the year there's a cycle.
Right? But I think that -- Ron has talked about $125 million as a guidance number and that's a pretty safe one.
I think Andy we'd just have to consider time line.
When you look at some of the new technologies and the application that Dan and his group have now sold in the marketplace we're talking 2 or 3 years of development and research time as well as putting these very difficult acquisitions together.
So that's got a certain time line associated that you don't necessarily see obviously in the other parts of our business.
I think the point is we're going to continue down that track.
We're always looking for new linkages as Dan described in a variety of areas.
So we expect to still get continued growth not just out of the mature business but new technologies in new ways that we approach the business.
Yes.
And Andy maybe to help you a little bit that $225 million obviously was some kind of typo with whoever did the transcript.
But we started the year with -- talking about Lummus Technology as a $110 million bogey if you will.
And based upon the strength of the year that cap moved up to $120 million to $125 million.
So that's probably right where we -- obviously right where we wound up a little bit better than that.
So we'll see if we can repeat that performance next year.
But right now we're staying with the $125 million to start the year anyways.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fair guys.
Phil if we could step back think about the U.S.
sort of petrochemical ramp up here I often get the question around sort of the risk of labor productivity in the U.S.
Gulf Coast.
CBI is very comfortable doing fixed-price contracts.
But when you talk to the chemical guys they want to forgive me but screw the E&amp;Cs if they can.
So how do you approach what could be a pretty tight market over the next couple of years to avoid and to get good profitability on these projects? I think our approach to that Andy is first of all understand that the new -- there is a new norm we believe in labor productivity in the marketplace that we're going to have to address.
There hasn't been as much activity particularly on large projects and those are going to have to be certainly well thought through before we get into a lot -- many of these jobs.
And there's always certain risk premiums associated with that.
So that does -- will reflect in the pricing from the market from the industry.
Having said that our approach has always been as far as risk on any large projects is to control as much of the critical paths and certainly the critical parts of the project that we can direct labor included.
And if you looked at what we structured today going from technology to engineering on to procurement pipe fabrication any steel plate structures that we may have on the job we're doing a fairly complete view of every project that we address.
I think combined with I think the opportunity of converting more technology awards for petrochemical into EPC and other opportunities I think are far greater in that market perhaps than what we've seen historically in refineries.
Clearly you're right though.
I think the productivity issues and direct labor costs are going to be one of the key issues going forward in how we're pricing these projects.
And we're certainly aware of that.
But we also believe that you don't necessarily mitigate that risk by subcontracting.
We believe that our ability to self-perform on the majority of that work is really one of the keys to our success.
Our next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy from Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering just on Lummus Technology and what you were just speaking about how it -- some of the awards there might translate into EPC down the road here.
And you spoke in your prepared comments about developing organically some new technologies for on-purpose propylene and butadiene.
How does that influence -- when you sell those technology designs internally influence the selection of you or someone else's EPC contract turn? Maybe if you could talk a little bit about the competitive landscape there for some of those technologies.
Yes.
I'll let Dan talk to the technology-specific just -- but again how we've always approached our technology business from the time we acquired it is to take a little bit different approach than others who may choose to embed technology opportunities within their EPC offering.
We first look at technology as a discrete opportunity and service our clients like that.
In most cases we certainly have the opportunity then to see if it makes sense that we convert to EPC.
But that's a decision that we make once we understand the project better.
It's not an assumption we make going into a project.
But as far as the technology market I'll let Dan speak to that.
I think that in terms of technology when we talk about ethylene projects we feel we've invested a lot of time and effort into improving the flow sheet reducing the piece count and lowering the investment especially in that area of these ethane crackers.
So this gives us what we hope is a particularly strong advantage there.
In the area of on-purpose propylene or butadiene we also feel that we have more advantage through the technology solutions that we have prepared and in some cases have unique solutions that other companies don't have.
It's not that they couldn't make propylene but they just couldn't make it the way we make it and we feel that's better.
And as we approach the market as Phil mentioned we always are looking to try to create value for the customer.
And in early phases especially in North America we can help in environmental permitting in planning and scoping our projects.
And then because we have years and years of background in these technologies and we know how they have to go together in the construction side I think that we can have a very convincing story going back to the previous question of what needs to be done to execute the project and to do it efficiently on time recognizing the other constraints of labor.
So it's a -- one of our old guys once called it the short [ph] of a salami approach.
You take a slice of salami at a time and that's what we do.
And it's been very effective in the U.S.
Speaking of that salami I love them guys from New Jersey management team.
But Marty I think too just getting commercially as you were referring to it does give us a competitive advantage.
It allows us to get more comfortable with some of the guarantees that owners typically require in these contracts and so we can certainly address that commercially more effectively too.
But it gives us an opportunity to really evaluate the project before we sign up for an EPC.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question since your guidance call in late December have you grown any more confident in being able to book one of these large LNG projects this year? I'll let Lasse speak to that.
I think certainly timing has always been the challenge but we're actively engaged in every project that we've talked about in terms of the FEED work.
But Lasse why don't you talk about a couple of them? Yes.
I think the 2 closest is Yamal in Russia where the client has got bids for the engineering and procurement phase and then invited us to come and negotiate an EPC target price contract.
And the client is confident that he'll make this selection some time in second quarter this year.
And then on Browse Woodside has received bids for the Browse development and they are saying they will make a selection either late second quarter this year or beginning of third quarter.
Freeport.
On Freeport we're executing a FEED currently.
That project will probably be awarded either late fourth quarter this year or maybe early next year.
That is kind of the timing now on those 3 projects.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Fisher from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Wonder if I could just ask you to clarify that last point on Yamal.
Specifically the extent of competition there.
I thought there was maybe 2 or 3 bidders on that project.
Can you just clarify what you're looking at there? Yes.
As we understand it the client has gone out in competitive bidding.
And I think there was originally 3 bidders.
We believe the competition is probably down to 2.
And more than that we do not really know about the other competitors.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I think on the last call you had expressed confidence in hitting the low end of your bookings guidance if none of those LNG projects come through.
Has anything changed in that perspective? No and we've talked about this that we typically forecast our new awards on a factory basis and the probabilities that we discussed.
Certainly we -- some of that new award forecast includes some LNG major award this year.
We fully expect that to happen.
If that doesn't happen certainly if we have confidence that we'll still be able to make -- certainly in the middle of our range of our guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up to that is the $800 million of smaller-type projects in the quarter.
If I heard that correctly it's a pretty nice step up.
Is there anything that you can point to in the quarter that would explain that via geographically or end market? And then I guess what are the expectations that you have for that type of work in 2013? The projects represent the typical mix from engineering to small tanks and certainly technology.
Probably the technology is the -- is probably the one component which made it incrementally higher than what we've seen in previous quarters.
And again those quarters and those run rates have run from about $500 million to $700 million I think totally and then to roughly around $2.5 billion -- $2 billion to $2.5 billion of new awards every year.
We expect that to certainly continue.
Again we may have some incremental adjustments on that but that's a pretty good run rate to go forward for 2013 we'd say.
And a lot of that too let me just say is we've had some great success on expanding our offshore business.
Again those are primarily engineering and procurement contracts which may again in value -- certainly many of the -- those have been over $100 million.
That's been a great development for us in terms of our market development.
So offshore is becoming a bigger and bigger part of our business as well.
LNG.
And floating LNG.
Thank you.
And I think in the United States the steel structure market continues to improve.
Certainly a lot of this oil [indiscernible].
So a lot of things.
Our next question comes from the line of Jamie Cook from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One just to follow-up on Andy's question on some of the labor issues that you're talking -- that people have been talking about since early in the year.
Some of your peers have come out and said it was a result to that they're seeing the markets in the U.S.
move more towards cost-plus.
Are you seeing that as well? And when you think about your approach to the U.S.
market with Shaw Group would you rather go to a cost-plus model? Or do you think given some of the competitive advantage you have with fabrication and pipe bending and all that stuff that you could get a higher win rate doing fixed-price? And I guess my second question is Phil just -- would you on the labor side -- I mean you have more prospects than most with Yamal Gorgon Freeport Shaw's new projects.
I mean at what point do we get concerned that capacity becomes an issue for you because there's a lot of other big jobs out there on the GTL side et cetera.
So I just want to get a sense of it.
At what point labor becomes constrained for you with the companies on a combined basis? Right.
Thank you Jamie.
Well as far as the contract type it really depends on the size.
I mean many of our -- let's say call them mid-sized projects that we've seen both in the petrochemical side and other types of projects in the U.S.
have been fixed-price.
And we performed very well.
We haven't necessarily seen any real pressure on labor issues per se.
But certainly as we go forward our preferred model on the very large jobs is more of what we've always called the hybrid projects.
I think the very large projects you're going to see strictly on a bid -- price bid basis and perhaps more development-type projects through the preliminary engineering.
And you'll probably see on the very large projects more contractors involved in verticals because most of these projects lend themselves to a very good vertical scopes.
So I think you're going to see all of the above.
I don't think it's going to be an all-or-the-other type situation.
As that affects labor when we talked about the acquisition we certainly talked about scale and resource capacity and numbers in the next 5 years for 200 000-plus people you're going to need in this industry to do some of this work that's projected in the U.S.
As that affects other opportunities certainty we draw from a global labor pool in all of the areas that we work in.
Certainly Australia lends itself to many of those labor pools wouldn't necessitate necessarily diluting our project management staff at all.
Much of our expatriate staff is already working overseas.
So we think that's well -- we've got a good view on that.
And if you look just on pure curves of projects about the time many of these larger jobs in the U.S.
-- this is theoretical -- are ramping up you're going to see some of these large nuclear jobs start to go down.
So we look at those curves as well.
And so I don't know that -- it depends on the phasing of the job.
It's unlikely that these jobs are all going to happen at once.
But we're -- as we project these jobs not only financially we're certainly looking at any kind of resource capacity constraints.
But I would tell you we're firm in our belief that again as I said to Andy we think the best way to mitigate these risks is to be able to address all the critical components of the jobs theirselves.
Even if you look just at pipe fabrication as you mentioned Jamie that can be as much as 8% content in any job.
So we don't have to necessarily -- we don't have to subcontract that anymore.
So again we'd take that out of the risk component.
So we're very encouraged by what we see and I think the industry is going to be geared up to handle these capital projects.
Your next question comes from the line of Will Gabrielski from Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about if Browse or Yamal get awarded and you're selected how quickly you would expect each one of those to start to ramp up into construction I guess on Browse specifically? Is FID in sanctioning the project really the main obstacle to moving it in construction? Or do you still see some metallurgical hurdles that needs to be cleared? Lasse do you want to answer that? Well the final investment decision for these projects has not been made yet by the client.
We have been going through FEED verification and bidding works.
So once the final investment decision is made we can then proceed into detail engineering and place a major equipment order that drives the critical path on that -- on these projects.
Will just to clarify we've had a team ongoing.
There hasn't been any break in our consolidated team between -- and all the joint venture partners.
So we've had a fairly sizable team on a paid basis continuing to work with the owner to develop information and getting ready for as quick a ramp up as we possibly can.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then in Australia specifically there's been some news over the past few weeks and UGL spoke about it today on some potential changes to the 4 5 7 visa program have you guys anything heard about that? Or are you planning around that? Well we see what is written in the paper as well.
We haven't experienced any problems with mobilizing people to our projects in Australia and these projects will require foreign workers in order to be completed.
And as I said we're working on mobilizing personnel to -- and Gorgon at this point in time.
And we believe that the Gorgon project phases very well into some of these opportunities that we have in Australia.
Yes.
Will if you do any factoring regarding let's say the Woodside trains that were previously installed keep in mind that tremendous amount of off -- or outside of the country kind-of-work we're going to be doing in terms of modernization and fabrication in virtually every large yard around Asia.
That's a huge component of these projects that you haven't seen in previous trains.
And I think that's going to be a real positive impact on mitigating labor or resource issues with these projects.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then lastly can you just comment -- you made a comment about Gorgon maybe staffing up at a lower rate than you had previously planned.
I'm assuming that's like a productivity-positive thing.
But do you guys -- is that right? And are you seeing any potential margin incentive from that? Well the project Gorgon has been somewhat delayed due to the conditions out on the island.
It's a Class A nature reserve and also some of the design issues on that project for that very reason.
So when we planned the original project we had the tanks and the MEI project ramping up quicker than what we currently see in our plants.
But what all this does is to transfer work of a transferred work from 2012 and into '13 and '14 for us.
And we're on a reimbursable basis with a fee component on there Will.
So it's not a financial risk.
It's just -- we're trying to help the project move as quickly as we can.
Your next question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> And really leading to that I think as some analysts lose sight of how important your safety record is -- so could you talk a bit more about -- and I know you will be talking more about Shaw quantitatively soon.
But would you talk a bit about -- really looking at Shaw from the same safety and execution aspects and really seeing qualitatively and strategically what you can bring from your safety record and execution record to Shaw to the extent you can? Well thank you for asking that.
We looked at their safety record certainly or execution methods and procedures quite exhaustively when we performed the due diligence and very pleased with what we saw.
Both Shaw and CB&amp;I have similar backgrounds and legacies and how we look at work whether it'd be fabrication or technology or engineering construction.
So the first certainly understanding of the talent they have within that organization and our ability to transfer our policies and procedures to Shaw knowing that there's going to be a good understanding of why we're doing this.
And so we've had a lot of good discussions over the past few months transition teams working on making sure these policies and procedures are transferred looking at where -- certainly Shaw has brought many good execution philosophies and methodologies to us as well and that's a process that will continue.
So we don't expect that we're going to see any change except continuing improvement over the total execution of the work going forward.
And we expect to see the results from that as well.
Research Division</strong> And my other question is in regards to the offshore side.
It seems like you've made some very notable traction there.
Could you talk about the opportunity set for CB&amp;I over there? Do you see it being a fairly sizable business for you 2 3 years down the road? Could it be as notable as some of your other larger businesses? Lasse? Well we've been quite successful over the last couple of years in securing a good share of the projects that has been awarded both in the U.K.
sector and also in the Norwegian sector out the North Sea.
It has been our ambition to leverage that position into also performing EPC projects together with partners on these projects.
And that goes for the floating LNG opportunities as well.
So there's good opportunity there to leverage into a larger revenue stream for CB&amp;I going forward.
I think we'll be prepared on our Investor Day to talk a little more detail around that and what we truly see in terms of the overall sizing of what we think of the market now.
But we've seen tremendous gains going from strictly an engineering contractor and services company where we're providing more and more scope and more and more places around the world.
Your next question comes from the line of John Rogers from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
First of all just in terms of pricing in the domestic market in the past I've always heard that opportunities outside the U.S.
often provided better margins.
And as this market ramps up -- I mean do we see a -- is there a change in the margin profile that we should think about? I know Ron you gave us some margin guidance but you always seem to be at the high end of those.
Well as Ron -- I think Ron will tell you we think those margins in terms of excellent [ph] margins and opportunity there -- probably it's moving that bandwidth.
And certainly it's our challenge to certainly perform within those bandwidth or in many cases exceed them when we can.
We don't have any indication that there's any kind of incremental change in the [indiscernible] markets -- margins of this business.
There's plenty of competition.
Certainly in the U.S.
market we're going to see going forward probably more competition in the U.S.
market than perhaps what we've seen in some of the international businesses.
So I don't necessarily would make that assumption.
And I quite honestly don't -- I probably don't agree that there was just a natural premium amount available for international work.
But -- so I think when we look at these margins and these bandwidths of opportunities it's pretty much a global bandwidth we're seeing.
I wouldn't go too much out of that as far as modeling going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then -- so you've got -- you're going to be busy with Shaw but is there an opportunity to do more fabrication and construction for offshore work? Well sure.
I mean as you're probably going to see and we're going to talk about this probably going forward into the next quarter is that's going to require partners and you're going to see some interesting partners.
We're going to have in terms of overall fabrication top-side design and application of technologies.
So our ability to work with and collaborate with these global partners are going to be important.
But it won't be all of us as Lasse indicated.
We're going to have many partners in this market.
Your next question comes from the line of George O'Leary from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question since most of mine have been ticked through would be on the refining markets.
And just kind of -- what opportunities -- it feels like we're in the beginning innings of some potential big refining CapEx spend.
You saw Valero announce a topper project.
But what opportunities do you guys see in pop up other than that end market? Dan? I think that if you're focusing in -- on the U.S.
for instance the opportunities are probably more spec-driven than anything else and some adjustments possibly to refining configurations associated with different blends of crudes being processed especially the shale crudes.
So we see more opportunity internationally than in the U.S.
But nevertheless all the markets are important to us.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then a second opportunity would be on -- if you could kind of help me with size of the market opportunity of the ethane derivatives market? And then is -- the labor that you guys have acquired in Shaw is that -- it's U.S.-centric.
There's going to be a big U.S.
build out.
Is that labor capable or transferable to the pet chem end market? Let me answer the labor question first then turn it over to Dan for the ethane question that you had.
Yes.
Certainly the labor is fairly fungible across those business lines.
And the number of -- the amount of direct labor that Shaw brings to the table not only in construction but certainly fabrication is going to be very helpful in addressing that market.
I think the other aspect to labor that you need to understand too and that we certainly look at is the double-breasting aspects of the direct labor both union and non-union.
And both CB&amp;I and Shaw have a good track record of being able to perform in virtually any labor posture in the United States.
That of course is going to be very very helpful when we look at these projects.
Dan? Yes.
And when we talk about downstream of ethylene plants especially ethane crackers most of this is going to be converted into a polyethylene or ethylene glycol.
And these are areas where we don't participate very much in terms of technology is an opportunity for our EPC organizations of course to do projects.
And in terms -- but your question was what is the magnitude of the investment? I would say in each ethylene plant -- and I'm just giving rough numbers here each ethylene plant would have maybe half the investment in downstream facilities.
This is probably a reasonable number to use.
Your next question comes from the line of Rob Norfleet from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Phil most of my questions have been answered.
I just had one quick one.
When you look at during the quarter project engineering and construction the margins in that business were very strong at north of 5%.
Was there a close out in the quarter that impacted margins? And I guess I'm -- when I'll look into 2013 and we had a lot of FEED work converting into EPC work with obviously a higher burn rate you would think that obviously the margin there might be a little lower not higher.
So how should we look at the fourth quarter margin from a run rate perspective? Well go ahead Ron.
Yes nothing out of the ordinary in there.
We always have ups and downs but nothing really moved the needle.
I think the key part of that business is really a volume business.
I mean we have grown that revenue this year somewhere north of 30%.
And that same leverage that's easy to see on our income statement on S&amp;A the 20 or -- 10- or 30-basis-point improvement flows down to the units.
And they also have other fixed cost there that help in this equation particularly with PEC with its engineering offices and associate overheads with things like that.
So we're getting the -- we're getting some operating leverage there and that's more than offsetting some of the greater percentage of cost-reimbursable work.
Yes.
Rob I think when you -- when we talk to you in March -- and hopefully you can come.
But certainly what we're going to be talking about going forward is the -- what we see is a pretty good balance of our backlog.
I mean historically you're going to see the long durable backlog contained in our engineering construction and maintenance group probably about 60% of that backlog.
And you're going to see those margins are going to probably produce probably I don't know 25% 30% of the EBITDA.
But then the important thing is you get a nice balance between the other 70% of our EBITDA opportunities coming from non-EPC and a fairly constant revenue stream.
And I think that's the unique aspects of our business model and one we plan to take advantage of.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
And Phil my last question I know it's been asked a few times in terms of the wage rate increases we've seen especially in the Gulf Coast but clearly one of the rational reasons you laid out for your purchase of Shaw was to increase resource capacity especially in North America.
When you look at the petrochem opportunity the LNG opportunity and just the overall gas opportunity -- I mean how would you characterize as this business ramps the available capacity that we have in North America? I mean is this going to become a pretty significant issue in terms of getting skilled labor and actually seeing people reaching their capacity limits sooner than later? It is.
That's a good summation Rob.
I think you're going to see that.
That that's going to be the primary.
And we've seen it in other high-demand markets and other high-demand cycles before that certainly the competition with that direct labor will drive absolute rates absolute cost of labor.
However it's a productivity issue I think which is the real key here.
Because again I think we're going to see some new norms and that's going to drive certainly the mix in the field on these very large jobs.
It's going to be a challenge because it's not going to be the same estimating norm that we might have seen 10 years ago.
But then when you have large projects competing for labor you may see some increase and that's something we usually certainly can see as far as normal escalations.
But I would say the overall productivity and getting the trained workforce [ph] that would take if you look at just how craft workers come through the system you're talking about 2 or 3 years probably before that really levels out to some good predictable productivity that would have some cost benefits from these projects.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Connors from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one -- when you look on your 2013 man-hour execution schedule just sort of wondering what sort of year-over-year growth rates we could have versus the $71 million you did this past year.
Well yes.
I don't -- I can't tell you exactly.
When you look at that we haven't had huge swings in overall man hours expended.
I mean this year was 71.
Last year I believe was 67.
It's really a function of how quickly a lot of these major projects will ramp up.
And although we're aware of that certainly from our safety performance and other metrics man hours is not necessarily the metric that we compare to.
But it's -- certainly we have seen some growth but we've also seen some very successful years financially that didn't have necessarily the man hours.
So we're not necessarily man-hour driven in terms of how we look at our business.
But yes we did see substantial growth.
As our revenues grow this year and certainly when we look at the combined companies there are going to be significant man hours associated with our business and more and more of a component of direct hours as you look at the fabrication and project sites.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then within Lummus Tech do you see any possibility in the 2013 of margin decline if you exclude the equity income but obviously offset by higher revenues as the heat exchanger work is an increased portion of the mix? Yes.
So I think that as heat exchanger work comes in maybe revenues will go up.
I don't see that income from operations will go down.
We've always seen and we've talked about there is some diluted factor in terms of the heater transfer which have the characteristics more of an EPC model but that's not because we're not making more money.
We're making more money but as far as the percentage is you do see some incremental effect on that.
And so getting more heat transfer work is a good thing in absolute terms but you do see a little variation in the margin percentage.
Right.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just squeeze in one more I don't know if you'll answer it now or at the end of March but -- not really asking for any quantitative figures but just in general what is your outlook on the future government solutions segment and particularly the MOX contract that you're acquiring from Shaw? Well of that business certainly the MOX contract stands out as probably a huge opportunity provided it gets approved by Congress and the administration to go forward.
And we see that very positively.
I mean Shaw had -- did a tremendous job of capturing a good share of the government work around the United States and various federal state and local and certainly the MOX work at Savannah River.
So we're well-positioned.
So we think it's a good business.
Of course it is new to some of us and we're going to have to evaluate it.
But again it's got a good run rate and good returns on it.
So we're very positive on that business.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will now turn it back over to the presenters for any closing remarks.
Just a quick reminder we'd like you all to please come to our Investor Day on March 28th.
It will be an opportunity to meet the management from the combined companies and to look at our plans for each segment of our business.
And with that we thank you for your time and attention this afternoon.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the CB&amp;I First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Before beginning today's call the company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company's press release and the SEC filing.
While forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or result may differ materially from what is expressed or implied at any such statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we report Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron's results for the first quarter 2013.
With me today is CB&amp;I's Chief Financial Officer Ron Ballschmiede who will discuss the company's overall financial performance.
We'll also have reports from CB&amp;I's 4 operating group presidents: Lasse Petterson for engineering construction and maintenance or ECM; Luke Scorsone fabrication and services; Dan McCarthy technology; and Chip Ray government solutions.
The operating executives will individually provide the narrative for each of our reporting segments followed by Ron who will summarize our financial results for the quarter.
Then of course the entire group will address your questions following these opening remarks.
First let me express how pleased we are with the pace of integration of the 2 companies and how quickly the organizational lines are blurring into truly 1 CB&amp;I.
Although it's only been weeks since the financial close of the transactions for Shaw the amount of work and dedication to ensure that we immediately capitalize on the strength of our consolidation is impressive by all measures.
Safety performance is always one of our leading indicators and I can report that with over 27 million hours we expended in the quarter our safety record on projects in shops labs and offices around the world remains in the top tier of companies against any relevant index or measure.
Our results reflect some seasonality of the new backlog we acquired as it relates to maintenance and outage work in our plant services business.
The political headwinds associated with government contracts as we saw recently with the postponement of the large Browse LNG project in Australia the timing of new awards for very large capital projects.
But our end markets are strong and for the first quarter I'm pleased to report that the income from these operations was nearly $148 million and delivered $0.82 of earnings to the bottom line before adjustments.
We also remain confident of our guidance for the year.
Now we frequently refer to the total amount of what we term as underpaying work we report as part of our annualized awards revenue projections.
With the addition of new maintenance contracts fabrication work as well as a growing demand in engineering projects and offshore production plus new technology awards and a variety of opportunities for our Steel Plate Structure business this quarter is a good example of how this work is growing to almost 70% of our total earnings resulting from lower risk and a more predictable backlog.
Now today we've asked the leader of each of the operating groups to discuss their businesses.
And if you attended our Investor Day in March you'll have additional context from which to base your understanding.
So with that I'll turn the call over to our first report from Lasse Petterson who leads all of our engineering construction and maintenance work around the world.
Lasse? Thank you Phil.
I'll comment on some trends in our key markets for major engineering construction and maintenance projects including new awards this quarter and a brief update on some of our larger ongoing projects.
The EC&amp;M operating unit includes the projects and operations within oil and gas power and plant services EC&amp;M employs more than 38 000 people and more than 350 active projects representing a backlog exceeding USD 18 billion.
During the quarter we have started alignment and integration activities throughout CB&amp;I with our priority on safety as a core value and common operational standards our CMSs that have greatly enhanced our performance and set CB&amp;I as a best in class performer in the energy infrastructure arena.
As part of this process we continue to identify opportunities for collaboration across our operating groups to leverage our position as an integrated solutions provider.
Trends remain positive in our key end markets new awards in the quarter included the Aasta Hansteen detailed engineering for Statoil Anadarko's Mozambique LNG FEED study and the multi unit nuclear fleet-wide maintenance contract.
Starting with oil and gas we saw last month the postponement and continued evaluation of the Browse project by Woodside.
However we remained well positioned to capitalize on LNG opportunities in the U.S.
in Canada in East Africa and in Australasia.
As reported earlier this year we received a FEED award for Anadarko's Mozambique LNG project adding to our portfolio of ongoing LNG FEED studies.
On the Gorgon MEI project construction work is proceeding as planned and we are mobilizing additional construction personnel on [indiscernible] island.
The opportunities for projects in the petrochemical products market continues to be strong particularly in the U.S.
and Russia.
Leveraging off technology's strong position as a licensor we have been successful in securing new EPC opportunities.
Construction of the Williams' ethylene EPC expansion project in Geismar Louisiana is progressing as planned and the expanded FEED study for NKNK in Russia is proceeding well.
We continue to experience increased activities in the offshore market where we were awarded the topside engineering contract for Statoil's Aasta Hansteen field in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea together with Hyundai.
When operation begins the production platform will be the world's largest bar [ph] capable of producing 812 million cubic feet of gas a day and storing 160 000 barrels of condensate.
We are also mobilizing the design team for Statoil's Mariner project in the U.K.
sector over the North Sea in our London office.
In Singapore the topside design for the [indiscernible] FPSO for Petrobras was completed this quarter and the design for the new [indiscernible] FPSO is well underway.
Our work on the 2 FEED projects for floating LNG is also progressing well.
Our offshore projects represent more than $500 million of combined contract value which underscores CB&amp;I's position as a leading provider of engineering services for both fixed and floating offshore platforms.
In the refining markets we expect our opportunities to remain primarily in Russia and in South America.
The replica of refinery expansion projects for Ecopetrol in Cartagena Colombia is proceeding well.
At the sites we employ more than 10 000 people with a vast majority of our craft being Colombian nationals many of which has received craft training by CB&amp;I in the trade schools we established in Cartagena well before any construction at the site had started.
The focus on training has been core to CB&amp;I and was employed on the projects in Nigeria in Peru and now in Colombia to ensure a high degree of in-country content and skills development in these nationally important projects.
Our projects in oil sands and gas processing continue to progress well with Exxon's Kearl initial development project completed and started up and the Kearl interconnecting modules and Kearl expansion projects well underway.
Engineering for the DONG crude  [indiscernible] EPC project in Denmark kicked off during the quarter.
Interesting CB&amp;I built the original terminal at the site back in 1984.
Construction of our gas processing project in PNG is proceeding to plan with the [indiscernible] airfield now being extended allowing major equipment to be airlifted to the sites.
Engineering for Exxon's Longford Gas Plants EPC project in Victoria Australia is ongoing in our Houston offices.
Moving to power we start to see favorable trends within the power markets.
I would like to point out that subsequent to the quarter we were awarded a multi-site contract with first energy to provide engineering procurement and construction management services to evaluate and implement AQCS solutions to their existing fleets.
The AQCS market represents opportunities for continued growth as utilities must comply for the Mercury and Air Toxin (sic) [Toxics] Standards.
In our nuclear power business we recognized a major milestone this quarter at both Vogtle and the V.C.
Summer sites.
In March we poured first nuclear concrete at both sites signifying major milestones for our contracts and the entire nuclear industry.
The concrete pour took approximately 50 continuous hours to complete and each pour was more than 7 000 cubic feet.
Vogtle and Summer are the first nuclear units to be built in the U.S.
in over 30 years.
And outside the U.S.
work continues to progress well as are nuclear projects in China.
On the fossil power side we foresee that low gas prices will drive demand for new generation projects and we are working with lines to provide an optimal delivery solution for new gas power installations.
In plant services CB&amp;I is the leading provider of systems-wide maintenance and modification services to 45 of the 104 operating nuclear power reactors in the United States.
Subsequent to the quarter CB&amp;I was awarded a sizable extension to our fleet-wide maintenance contract.
We'll see opportunities to leverage combined offerings throughout our different operating groups and capitalize on our footprints to build increased business in the shutdown modifications and maintenance markets both for onshore and offshore facilities.
And post-Fukushima modifications to the nuclear units will begin in late 2013 and run through the next few years.
CB&amp;I is responding to a number of studies for nuclear services activities for flooding seismicity and spent fuel pool levels requirements.
Going forward CB&amp;I will retain its focus on delivering enhanced safety performance and best in class EPC project execution and continue to generate growth through leveraging the combined capabilities now included in our company.
And now I hand over to Dan.
Thank you Lasse and good afternoon.
From a financial perspective Technology's performance continued on the trajectory of the second half of 2012.
Awards were a nice mix of license heat transfer and catalyst sales.
In the quarter we announced 2 major strategic technology moves revising the catalyst supply chain for Chevron Lummus global and signing an agreement to purchase Phillips 66's E-Gas technology.
In addition we restructured some of our technology business to create Lummus engineered products.
I will discuss each of these initiatives but before I do that I'm sure many of you want to hear about the markets.
The olefin side of petrochemicals remains extremely active.
Remember when we talk about olefins it's more than ethylene plants.
We are also looking at large investments to make propylene and butadiene on purpose.
Obviously the North American market remains vibrant but Russia and Asia Pacific also have major investments in various stages of development.
A new trend is the rapid development of NGL export terminals in the United States.
In the first quarter we were awarded a propane dehydrogenation plant in Korea that will be based on propane imported from the United States.
As a result we may see a shift in the United States to more investment and infrastructure and somewhat less in downstream units.
While there is much focus on olefins I'd also want to state that the refining and aromatic series continue to perform well too.
The purchase of the E-Gas gasification technology from Phillips 66 fits our overall strategy of expanding our offers in syngas as well as aligns very well with our EC&amp;M interests.
The technology can be used in 3 ways: generate clean gas from coal for power generation; efficiently gasify coke produced in refineries or produce building blocks synthesis gas for chemicals production.
These projects are large and present good opportunity for EC&amp;M.
The creation of Lummus engineered products provides us a mechanism to engineer procure and fabricate technology-based products that do not follow the license model.
We will supply heat transfer equipment hydrogen NGL recovery sulfur recovery and PSA facilities through this operation.
In order to execute these services we required an engineering office and have taken responsibility for the CB&amp;I office in Tyler Texas.
Finally we have restructured the catalyst supply chain for CLG.
Advanced refining technologies commonly referred to by the acronym ART will manufacture our catalyst and manage technical service and rebid sales for CLG.
ART is a joint venture between Chevron and [indiscernible] so we expect this transition to proceed very smoothly.
This initiative will increase our supply capacity and improve our success in the refill market thus increasing earnings to CLG.
We believe these strategic moves will better position us in the market to achieve our strategic growth objectives.
Thank you and I will turn it over to Chip.
Thank you Dan.
CB&amp;I's government solutions operating group provides a wide range of services to local state and federal government clients primarily targeting infrastructure projects program management such as the operations and maintenance of military bases environmental engineering and  remediation and disaster response and recovery.
In addition the group offers many of these services to private sector clients to help them comply with governmental regulations.
Our current backlog includes a diversified portfolio of large and small projects representing the full spectrum of our capabilities and expertise.
Because the majority of our work is within the United States and more specifically with or supported by funding from the U.S.
federal government I'm going to focus today's comments on 3 of the primary trends affecting this market.
First the issue that has been making headlines for some time is the funding of federal government programs.
From continuing resolutions to the debt ceiling to the fiscal cliff and on to sequestration there has been an ongoing debate regarding the appropriate level of spending along with where federal spending should be targeted.
During early April President Obama released his desired budget which provides greater insight into what we may experience over the next few years.
Although there has been nearly endless discussion in the House and Senate regarding budget cuts expectations are that the probable outcome will be a reduction in the rate at which spending increases over time not an actual cut to existing levels.
With that said when the competing spending proposals are evaluated in terms of where money will be directed differences in priorities become very clear and we do see proposals to marginally reduce federal funding for specific programs particularly in the areas of defense and conventional energy development.
For CB&amp;I a reprioritization of spending can have positive and negative impacts on our financial results.
Because we have arguably the most complete range of capabilities to serve the federal government we have the ability to strategically focus our resources on those areas primed for investment such as infrastructure projects and green initiatives.
This operational flexibility helps us continue growing new awards and it leads to a more stable earnings stream.
At the same time we currently have some work which is funded annually and subject to possible reductions most specifically the MOX project at Savannah River.
In that case we are working with our client the Department of Energy to find possible paths to maintain the project schedule.
In the event that the President's proposed 2013 funding of $320 million for MOX is adopted we will see a resultant negative impact on revenue but we will adjust accordingly to minimize any adverse impact on earnings.
A second trend which has positive impact on the company's government solutions business is the increase in environmental awareness and the regulatory burdens that our clients face both government and private sector clients.
Regardless of whether they are working to comply with legislation regulations or codes trying to benefit from tax credits subsidies or grants or simply attempting to be good corporate citizens we capitalize on this trend by supporting them with expertise in areas such as the development of energy efficiency programs management of environmental compliance efforts and remediation of environmental sites.
It's worth noting that this trend isn't limited to the United States and our capabilities are exportable to help CB&amp;I clients throughout the world.
Finally over the past few years we've seen an adjustment in the terms and conditions contained in many government contracts.
A noteworthy example is the shift from cost plus to performance-based contracts where the contractor takes some risk.
This trend plays to CB&amp;I's competitive advantage of having a flexible execution model because we have the processes systems and tools to successfully perform both reimbursable and risk work.
Another example is small business set asides.
At present the federal government has a bias towards small businesses which is manifested through contractual conditions that essentially ensure small businesses win a certain amount of work.
The challenge is that in most cases there aren't small businesses with the capabilities to satisfactorily execute the larger and more complex projects.
To achieve growth in this business climate we follow strict selectivity practices regarding the work we pursue and when appropriate we strategically partner with small businesses that share our values and are capable of performing a portion of the project scope.
In summary from the perspective of a contractor the U.S.
federal government is a very large market that is in transition.
The trends we see paint a relatively clear picture of what the future may hold but there is still a level of uncertainty about funding and priorities.
Fortunately CB&amp;I has a comprehensive range of products and services significant headroom and we are well positioned in a number of areas to benefit from the developing trends.
Now that we have the combined resources of 2 great companies we have further enhanced our ability to win the right projects and execute them to the satisfaction of all of our stakeholders.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Luke Scorsone who will discuss fabrication services.
Luke? Thank you Chip.
The fabrication services operating group had a solid first quarter of operations.
Management structures have been put in place personnel moves have been accomplished and integration activities are advancing.
On this last point a rollout and implementation of CB&amp;I's CMS standards program is well underway and will expand uniformity and processes and procedures throughout the operating group.
We continue to see strength in our end markets primarily driven by domestic oil and shale gas projects and LNG developments in the Australia Asia Pacific region.
Major first quarter awards for Fabrication Services include three 160 000 cubic meter full containment LNG storage tanks in Asia pipe spools and large diameter pipe pens for crude oil and the pipeline projects a turnkey natural gas liquids export terminal and off-site storage tanks for 2 Australian LNG export terminals.
The Fabrication Services group will enhance CB&amp;I's competitive positioning by supporting the EC&amp;M group with plate structures pipe and fitting supply and piping spools.
Operationally steady progress is being made on the LNG storage tanks for the Gorgon AP LNG and Papua New Guinea LNG projects.
In the Middle East the storage tanks for the Ma'aden aluminum refinery project in Saudi Arabia are advancing well.
Also in Saudi Arabia site work has begun on the Sadara storage tank project.
In North America activity is at a high level on natural gas liquid terminals pressure sphere and conventional storage tank projects.
Pipe spooling and bending activities are continuing on a variety of LNG pipeline power and offshore projects in the United States and the Middle East.
The Fabrication Services backlog currently represents a good mix of projects relating to the LNG low temperature nuclear gas processing and petrochemical end markets.
Our backlog is also a testament to our confidence and capability to execute high-margin work with the largest share of the group's backlog approximately 85% representing fixed price and hybrid contract types.
Going forward the Fabrication Services operating group is well positioned to capitalize on the domestic and international plate structures markets grow the pipe spool and module [ph] business internationally and enhance the competitiveness of the other CB&amp;I operating groups.
I will now hand the call over to Ron Ballschmiede CB&amp;I's Chief Financial Officer.
Ron? Thanks Luke and good afternoon everyone.
Let me take you through our strong financial performance for the quarter.
As a reminder our consolidated results for the first quarter of 2003 (sic) [2013] include the results of the Shaw operations from the February 13 2013 acquisition date essentially 1/2 of the first quarter.
In order to focus on the ongoing combined company's operating performance during the quarter I will discuss our results excluding the acquisition-related costs as set forth in more detail in the earnings release.
Revenue for the first quarter was $2.3 billion up $1.1 billion or 87% from the first quarter of 2012.
The revenue increase reflects growth across each of our 3 legacy business units of $425 million or 35% over the comparable period of 2012.
This increase is driven by increased activities of our large projects and the execution of our higher beginning-of-the-year backlog.
The balance of the revenue growth of $625 million or 52% over the first quarter of 2012 represents revenues from the Shaw acquisition.
We expect increasing project activity in each of our operating groups to continue throughout 2013 providing sequential quarterly revenue growth consistent with the underpinning of our previously announced full year guidance of $10.7 billion to $11.2 billion.
The increase of our gross profit for the quarter was primarily driven by the acquisition and higher revenues from our oil and gas and technology business units which totaled $246 million.
Gross profit totaled $153 million in the comparable 2012 quarter.
Approximately 2/3 of the gross profit increase was a result of the acquisition with the balance coming from the higher revenues of each of our 3 legacy business segments.
Each of our operating groups continued to benefit from solid project execution and performed consistent with our expectation.
The decline in our consolidated first quarter gross profit percentage to 10.9% from 12.8% in the first quarter of 2012 primarily reflects the changing relative revenue volume of our legacy business units and the acquisition.
Specifically and as we expected more than 80% of our legacy quarter-over-quarter consolidated revenue increase came from our oil and gas business unit which accounted for 65% of our historical consolidated revenue base compared to 59% in 2012.
The balance of the operating margin decrease was attributable to the acquisition which delivers an overall slightly lower gross profit rate but substantial gross profit realization.
I'll come back and discuss changes in our revenues and our operating income by business -- by operating group in a moment.
Selling and administrative expenses increased to $94 million from $63 million in 2012.
There are a couple of items contributing to this increase.
The most significant increase relates to the acquisition which accounted for approximately 75% of the dollar increase.
In addition the amount of stock-based compensation increased year-over-year most of which is classified as selling and administrative costs.
Consistent with past years the first quarter had a greater amount of stock-based compensation cost due to the accounting requirement to expense stock-based compensation in the period of grant for those individuals who are eligible to retire.
The consolidated expense in the first quarter of 2013 which is predominantly classified as S&amp;A totaled $33 million an increase of $22 million in the comparable period 2012.
Due to the demographics of the employee participants and the acquisition the expense in the first quarter of '13 reflects 55% of the total expected 2013 expense.
This equates to the expense in the first quarter of 2013 incrementally exceeding the stock-based compensation expense of each of the second third and fourth quarters by approximately $0.15 per share.
Stepping back from that after that long explanation of S&amp;A which I believe is important to understand we continue to expect our full year S&amp;A expense to benefit from continued operating leverage.
Our S&amp;A was 4.2% of revenues for the first quarter down 0.9% from 5.3% in the first half -- quarter of 2012.
As we have previously discussed we expect our full year 2013 S&amp;A revenue -- S&amp;A to revenue to be approximately 3.8% down from 4.2% in 2012.
Intangible amortizations totaled $9.2 million for the first quarter.
Our incremental intangible amortization related to the Shaw acquisition was $5 million in Q1 and is expected to be approximately $10 million for each of the remaining quarters of 2013 reflecting a prospective full year run rate of approximately $40 million to $42 million.
Acquisition-related cost of $61.3 million for the first quarter of 2013 were comprised of transaction change  [ph] in  [ph] control and severance-related costs.
We continue to expect our full year acquisition-related cost to be in the $80 million to $100 million range.
First quarter adjusted income from operation was $148 million or 6.6% of revenues compared to $86 million or 7.1% of revenue in the first quarter of 2012.
Net interest expense for the quarter was $21 million.
Approximately $10.5 million of this expense was acquisition-related credit facility costs incurred prior to the acquisition and interest on one-time acquisition-related financing  commitments satisfied during the quarter.
Our income tax rate for the quarter was 34.7% reflecting the nondeductible portion of certain of these acquisition-related costs.
On an adjusted basis that is excluding the effect of the nondeductibility of some of these acquisition-related costs our tax rate was approximately 32%.
This rate reflects the changing geographic mix of our taxable income to higher tax rate jurisdictions in 2013 and is consistent with our expectation of our 2013 full year adjusted tax rates.
The summation of all that results in the first quarter adjusted net income of $85 million or $0.82 per diluted share or $0.32 per diluted share on an as-reported GAAP basis.
The adjusted EPS of $0.82 includes accretion from the Shaw acquisition of approximately $0.08 per diluted share.
Our full year adjusted guidance remained unchanged at $4 and $4.35 per diluted share and adjusted EBITDA totaled $176 million for the quarter or 7.8% of revenues compared to $102 million in the comparable 2012 quarter.
Before I take you through the operating group first quarter results let me highlight a couple of items.
First we have reclassified our 2012 as-reported segment information to conform with our 2013 operating group organization.
The only significant 2012 change relates to our Gorgon MEI project which is now managed and included in our EC&amp;M group rather than a component of Fabricated Services.
The MD&amp;A section of our first quarter Form 10-Q includes the reclassified segment information for each of the 4 quarters of 2012.
In addition to assist with the comparative performance analysis the MD&amp;A also provides information broken down between our legacy and our acquired business units.
Each of our operating group's 2013 results were consistent with our expected annual range of operating results which we have specifically talked about in the past.
Our operating performance expectations are operating income in a range of 4% to 7% for EC&amp;M 8% to 11% for fabricated services 3% to 6% for government solutions and annual operating income for technology of $125 million.
Also for the first quarter the incremental stock-based compensation expense generally reduces the operating group's first quarter operating margins by almost 1 percentage point when compared to the annual range I just described.
The operating group presidents spoke to our new awards and prospect activity so I'll provide some overall comments.
Our new work awards for the first quarter totaled just under $2 billion for a book-to-burn ratio of 86% compared to $1.7 billion of new awards for 2012.
New awards and individual project growth in excess of $40 million totaled $1.2 billion.
The $700 million-plus balance of new awards reflect the important underpinning work which is spread nicely between our operating groups and project types around the world.
Our first quarter new awards and prospect activities support our confidence in our previously commuted 2013 new awards guidance range of $13 billion to $16 billion.
Our March 13 backlog totals $25.5 billion up from $10.9 billion at the beginning of the year.
This increase includes the acquired backlog of $15 billion.
EC&amp;M revenues totaled $1.4 billion in 2013 an increase of $720 million over the first quarter of '12.
Approximately 50% or $374 million of that increase was attributable to the acquisition.
The balance of the growth was from the oil and gas business unit which increased its revenues to $1.1 billion or almost 50% increase.
The most significant revenue increase related to increased activities of our LNG and gas processing work in the Asia Pacific region petrochemical work in the United States and continued significant activities at our REFICAR refinery project which Lasse discussed earlier.
We expect these projects together with the U.S.
nuclear projects to provide sequential quarterly revenue growth for 2013 and beyond.
Income from operations totaled $63 million or 4.4% of revenues in the first quarter of 2013 compared to $27 million or 3.9% in 2012.
Factors contributing to this change in the quarter's operating margins include the 5% operating income from the power business unit and the benefits from higher revenue volume and related leverage of our operating costs partially offset by the impact of the greater percentage cost reimbursable-based projects.
Fabrication Services reported first quarter 2013 revenues of $495 million an increase of $104 million over 2012.
Fabrication manufacturing revenues totaled $77 million with operating income of $9 million.
Steel plate structures revenues increased 7% or $27 million to $418 million on higher activity for LNG tank projects in Asia and storage tank work in North America partially offset by the substantial completion of the GASCO project in the Middle East.
Operating income totaled $45 million or 9.1% of revenues compared to $36 million or 9.1% of revenues in 2012.
Fabrication and manufacturing operating margin was 12.1% of revenue and steel plate margins decreased by 0.6% reflecting changes in the mix of projects around the world.
Lummus Technology had a strong quarter reporting revenue of $150 million compared to $100 million in the first quarter of 2012.
The increase in revenue reflect a greater volume of heat transfer and licensing revenue from a higher beginning-of-the-year backlog.
First quarter operating income totaled $36 million $13 million over 2012 reflecting the increased volume and stronger refinery-related equity earnings.
Finally the Government Solutions sector -- or operating group reported revenues of $175 million and operating income of $4 million or 2.3% of revenues.
The post-acquisition half quarter of operating activities were negatively impacted by the current uncertainties with respect to government funding and spending.
Now a few comments on our balance sheet and cash flow.
Our balance sheet and liquidity remains strong with shareholders' equity of $2 billion cash of $393 million and cash net of revolver borrowings of $277 million.
We continue to enjoy significant support from our credit market with $2.2 billion of credit available to support our new awards growth and strategic opportunities.
During the quarter we funded the $3.3 billion Shaw purchase price with $500 million of our equity $1.8 billion of debt and the balance plus transaction costs and Shaw-related debt repayments from our combined cash balances.
Our investment and contract capital reflecting the combined balances of receivables inventory contracts in progress and accounts payable stands at a $951 million number at the end of the quarter compared to $325 million at the end of the year the increase reflecting the acquisition.
In closing our significant backlog consistent project execution and strong position provides us with the necessary financial flexibility to move our projects to our owners and take advantage of the global energy infrastructure and government services opportunities in front of us.
We remain well positioned for opportunities to grow our company and to provide -- continue to provide strong returns to our shareholders.
Phil? Thank you Ron and everyone.
We'll now open the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] First question comes from the line of Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Phil since we all met a month ago has things changed much? Well they continue to get busy Mike.
No I think we certainly are pleased that the operating groups are performing as we expected no real surprises here.
I think the change really is in our realization that the integration is occurring much faster than one would think with the -- with 2 large companies that we just put together.
So those are all positive aspects of this but certainly everyone has worked hard on making that happen and we're very pleased with the outcome.
Research Division</strong> For Ron as you go through 2013 on a cash flow basis is there going to be much variability as you're getting used to new working capital needs and betterment on some of the cash flow as you and we get more comfortable with how the business runs -- the new combined business rather.
Yes as has been historically the case and was so since the Shaw acquisition our first quarter is traditionally our lowest cash generation quarter and we saw that again this year.
Certainly the acquisition combined with more than operating items of funding all the benefit plans et cetera et cetera typically -- any paying our taxes et cetera -- typically has the biggest effect in the first quarter.
After that Qs 2 3 and 4 we would expect to be back to normal and hopefully deliver operating cash flow consistent with our operating income.
Our next question comes from the line of Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Phil I have to ask you about your new awards guidance in the context of you did about $2 billion for the quarter.
It seems like kind of a normal run rate I would guess.
Still means that you need to do some big chunky things right? So maybe you could talk about these big chunky things.
Are they large subcontracting jobs in LNG projects? We do know about a couple of petchem FEEDs that you have.
So if there's any more color and confidence you can give us -- because Browse is a large contract that got pushed to the right that would be helpful.
Yes well as we've talked about previously Andy when we forecast our new awards we certainly assume a certain level of probability associated with competition region timing and so forth.
So although we're very disappointed on the postponement of Browse it's certainly not the overwhelming proponent of our new award forecast.
In LNG for example we're currently involved in I think roughly 14 or more LNG projects around the world whether it -- they're in FEED or other phases of the project.
How it will affect this year if the calendar year is what we're talking about is that we're still optimistic that some jobs particularly a job like Freeport should be announced according to their own publications an EPC contract this year as well as a FID for this year.
So we're optimistic that could happen.
I think it's a bit premature to make any large adjustments in our new award forecast until we've worked through the course of the year and probably about the midpoint of the year we'll certainly look at that again if any adjustments.
We're confident that markets are strong and certainly the long-term outlook is extremely good.
Whether all of that fits as we would like within one calendar year I think is always a risk on these large capital projects.
Having said that when you look at where we're driving our earnings and the other parts of our operations on the combined operations we're pretty confident that these will continue to run at very high rates and improve as the year continues.
So we'll continue to look at that.
There are some big chunky opportunities as you say.
Timing is always the issue.
I think the market is strong and we're optimistic that we'll be able to bring at least one of these home in the calendar year which will be all upside to our forecast.
Research Division</strong> So let me ask another question on the quarter's new awards actually.
So Ron you gave disclosure $1.2 billion of large projects and then $700 million of sort of the bread-and-butter stuff but CBI legacy had $700 million of sort of the bread-and-butter stuff so it begs the question about what's going on in power? Maybe you guys can talk a little bit about the overall power market.
I know that you booked the $300 million for 2Q the scrubber work but is it really pretty quiet in power now? Or is it just lumpiness? Let me start with that Andy and then I'll ask Lasse if he'd like to add additional comments as well as Luke and others.
I think it's not an unusual phenomena in a large transaction like this with  the months preceding the close of that for things to get quiet on the new award front.
Certainly we've seen it with -- we saw it with Lummus and it's not an unusual phenomenon here.
So I think the activity in let's say the last 6 months leading up to transaction we don't believe is necessarily indicative of the strength of the market.
I would say that the awards of both maintenance work as well as the other capital project is a very positive sign and I think we'll see that ramp up.
I think certainly there is opportunity.
But I think it is part of the phenomena of putting a transaction together like this that there is some hesitancy in some of the new awards that we're seeing in the power market.
But in terms of the overall strength of the market we certainly think there is a lot of opportunities not only traditional power generation but certainly how we might be able to look at other types of projects and large capital projects and  provide more than an integrated solution work when it comes to power generation for some of these large capital projects.
So we're looking at a variety of ways that we're going to increase that rate of new awards.
Lasse would you like to add any more to that? I think you colored it very well Phil.
The only thing I would add Andy don't forget we only had Shaw on our numbers for less than -- for about half a quarter and of course as Phil mentioned it's just ramping up.
That we reported with Shaw  [ph] new awards somewhere in the 750 range give or take.
So a good portion of that is going to have some of the same characteristics as we see in our underpinning work particularly as it relates to Fabrication Services and our Government Solutions side of the business.
Our next question comes from the line of Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry because we're all going between 2 calls here so I hope this hasn't been asked.
I heard your prepared remarks I don't think you said what your assumptions were behind the nuclear behind [indiscernible] and southern in terms of percent complete in 2013 and what is embedded in the guidance.
I know I asked that at the Analyst Day and you said you thought you'd have more color by the time you report earnings.
And then just my second question -- or how I think about MOX longer term I mean I would think if there's cuts it probably impacts you more in 2014 and you'd have other projects to offset that.
But in terms of total size from when you guys were part of Shaw -- or I'm sorry from when Shaw was a standalone company I feel like it was like a $600 million $700 million business in a 4% 5-ish percent margin? I mean is that the way to think about it in terms of total size -- not that the total project would be cut but I'm just trying to figure out the magnitude of that.
Let me go back to the Vogtle and V.C.
Summer comment.
I think we certainly in terms of progress the nuclear pour that we accomplished weeks ago was a huge milestone as far as progress on that project.
It was over 7 000 yards in I think 40 41 to 50 hours.
The nuclear island is now complete.
Both nuclear islands have been completed at Vogtle.
And so we made a tremendous amount of progress on that.
Also we've also been looking at certainly some of the other support areas for the projects such as our module fabrication shop in Lake Charles.
We certainly see and have been working closely with all the clients as well as Westinghouse and others on how we might be able to continue to look for improvements in the deliveries and schedule.
So that's all in play right now so we're pretty optimistic of that.
So we think we've hit some pretty important milestones and we'll continue to report as these milestones occur.
But no surprises there Jamie.
Research Division</strong> No but I guess in terms of just what's embedded in guidance in terms of are you going to give a range in terms of what -- the percent you expect to be complete relative to where we stood in 2012? I'm just trying to get a sense for the pace of the project this year.
Yes how much of that is...
Research Division</strong> Like what percent you are at the end of 2012 and then where we will be at the end of 2013? Because I'm assuming there's something embedded in your numbers or? There's certainly revenue embedded in our numbers.
I don't know the percentage of completion numbers off the top of my head but you will see when you get to our Q that in the quarter give or take $125 million came from the nuclear embedded in our EC&amp;M business that's actually half a quarter and we expect growth every quarter.
So I'll let you do the math but that's the order of the magnitude the revenue expectations we have off of those 2 sites.
Research Division</strong> And then second on MOX? Jamie this is Chip.
In terms of MOX I think we've seen over the last year or more the political headwinds that Phil talked about and I mentioned earlier relative to whether it's sequestration or debt ceilings continuing resolutions and we have seen some impact on the top line at MOX the revenue side.
Right now there's a lot of news out there regarding what may occur but I think it's premature to speculate as to what funding will be.
With that said we're certainly planning based on what may occur the President's budget and other expectations.
And as we get more clarity relative to what that funding will be we'll then move our plans in terms of how we execute the project looking at staging our work procurement et cetera.
So I wouldn't at this stage make any judgments or speculation on where that project will go until we get more clarity regarding the actual funding.
Our next question comes from the line of Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about how many greenfield U.S.
chemicals projects you're evaluating in Lummus and separately in the EPCM business? And give us a sense of when you expect the contract awards to be made.
Maybe I'll ask Dan we'll give you a sense of the activity that we see in the U.S.
and that may be helpful in terms of some of the preliminary work we're involved in and what we see in front of us.
Dan? Well in terms of the U.S.
market we're looking at multiple units and I keep emphasizing the fact that it's more than ethylene because they're going to be propylene units and butadiene units.
And so we have a variety of different prospects in hand.
And what's going on is I think there's a lot of discussion among the potential operating companies as to  whether they want to go alone or go in partnership and so that takes them a little bit of time to sort out.
Maybe the overall comment there is that we've seen a continuing strengthening of the interest in the planning for these capital projects.
Again particularly on these large capital projects whether they all fit into the calendar year is really the challenge as far as our forecast but we see continuing strength in investment in these projects.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately Ron I'm wondering if you can talk about how the progress on Shaw systems integration is going.
I know you're installing your management systems and accounting systems.
Just give us an update on where you are in the process and how close are you to the finish line there? Sure.
Our -- certainly our Day 1 activity focused on all the treasury-related matters that you might guess together with making sure that the commercial side of the business are -- immediately adopts our CMS standards.
The balance of -- our main system works are going to continue for the next year plus where legacy CB&amp;Is more than halfway through converting to a new module or new release and Shaw will follow shortly thereafter.
But the good part -- one of the many good parts about this transaction is we both had standalone systems that were working well and we will get some consolidation and integration benefits out of that probably late this year and into 2014.
Jerry I think the -- again as far as an overview comment we've seen no interruption or delay in our transition plans because of any systems issues quite the contrary.
And as far as the control environment that we found Shaw is very strong very rigorous and we're very pleased with that.
So we don't see any issues going forward with our transition relative to any systems integration.
Research Division</strong> Okay and on a related note obviously Shaw when it was a standalone business had some margin surprises come up from time to time.
I guess at this point are you fully comfortable that you've done a complete and full assessment now under your systems of  [indiscernible]  Any projects and obviously outside of nuclear ones where you've spoken extensively? We are very confident of that.
Again if you look at how we've grouped the like businesses and the fabrication services in terms of margins those have very similar characteristics.
In fact we're enjoying certainly an uptick and importantly is when you look at the fabrication manufacturing business but the combination is a very interesting opportunity for us.
Of course the engineering construction maintenance we've talked about that traditional margins certainly within the ranges that we reported for in our standalone CB&amp;I.
Chip talked that we've got some call it headwinds against -- on the Government Solutions but again we haven't seen any deterioration of margin simply because of the type of work it's just the timing of work and subject to government approval.
And Dan certainly in the technology side continues to look for margin increases from his building blocks if you will of technology through applications as well as through acquisitions.
So we see that to continue.
So the general mix I think is very positive and the return we're seeing from of our business is very -- more predictable and I think very solid.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Norfleet with BB&amp;T.
Research Division</strong> This is John Ellison on for Rob.
My first question is in regard to the trend towards using more modular fabrication to deal with rising cost and craft labor and I wanted to know if you could discuss your skill set there.
And also on the same note could you discuss I guess a little color on your capabilities in regards to floating LNG projects and particularly the EPC? I'll start on the modular capabilities.
Certainly we've had capability in modularization for many years.
Much of that early experience was at Woodside where we erected most the original modules for train 5.
Certainly our modular fabrication yard in Beaumont has been very busy over the past 2 years on preassembling nearly 100 or over 100 process modules for the large refinery work we're performing in Colombia for shipment there.
We have examples everywhere.
We think modularization certainly is key to the execution we see on these large capital projects in some cases driven by the availability of craft labor in some cases and in many cases an opportunity to enhance the schedule.
But certainly whether it be in South America certainly in Canada where most of the work we're doing for Kearl is modularized we see that as a very important and critical part of our whole execution strategy.
As far as offshore production I'll turn that over to Lasse.
We have extensive experience with designing top size modules for offshore applications both on fixed platforms for the North Sea and also on floating production units that we have done both in the North Sea and for Brazil.
I think also on the floating LNG projects  [indiscernible] require our scope of supply there will be to do all the design for the top size modules and then deliver the top size modules for the unit as a complete package ready for integration.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And my follow-up in relation to the Shaw integration have you uncovered any additional cost saving or revenue enhancement opportunities? Or are there any other surprises that you have encountered either positive or negative there? We've encountered a lot of positive potential on -- I think on both sides.
We talked about and we committed to at least a $30 million cost synergy target just at the transaction certainly as we look at the continuing operations the combined operations there'll be opportunities to look at both on the cost side.
But particularly we're excited about the revenue synergy side where we see opportunities to join our operations in ways that we probably hadn't anticipated even during the due diligence.
So it's very exciting.
So we're in a good position to really provide a more integrated solution to our customers in virtually all of our end markets by joining so many capabilities we have throughout the company.
So I would say that we've seen a positive result from just the initial look at how we might be able to capitalize on these 2 -- joining these 2 companies.
So that's all very good.
But as far as cost synergies we'll continue to look at that and ways to improve our efficiency continuously as we go forward.
Our final question comes from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of nuclear questions and I'm not sure if you've covered these already but I'm wondering if you can give us an update on the module production at SMS.
Are you fully up to speed there? And if not when can you get there and get all those modules shipped out that had been kind of backlogged? And then the second part is with the concrete poured in the quarter was there any cash payment associated with that? I thought that was kind of a cash-generating milestone.
Well the answer to your second question is yes.
The answer to your first question I'll let Luke kind of update on where we are as far as the Lake Charles operation.
We're in the process of shipping modules.
They're  fitting together well in the field.
There has been a module set also at the sites and we're getting alignment with the engineering design and the construction schedules and integrating those for a  module delivery program that achieves the project's goals.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it sounds like you're getting that cleared out.
It's very important that we make sure that our module operation in Lake Charles is totally integrated with our project schedule and deliverables so we're working very hard on making sure that happens.
So we're very encouraged by what we see.
We're very encouraged by the overall structure and the equipment and the workflow that already existed.
And I think much of it is getting improved cooperation between all the parties and making sure our inspections are adequate and thorough and we're in compliance with all the regulations certainly that we have to address during the -- all facets of job.
So those are the challenges but we're quickly getting around it.
I'll now turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Well we're extremely confident of our ability to deliver the value to our shareholders as promised in this acquisition.
And we're quickly retiring any reference to legacy anything in the company.
And going forward we will refer to CB&amp;I as the one company we truly are today.
So I thank you for your time and attention and that will conclude our call.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation.
You may all disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Holly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the CB&amp;I Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before beginning today's call the company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company's press release and the SEC filings.
While forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgments as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we report Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron's results for the second quarter.
With me today is CB&amp;I's Chief Financial Officer Ron Ballschmiede who will discuss the company's overall financial performance.
We'll also have reports from CB&amp;I's core operating groups: Lasse Petterson for Engineering Construction and Maintenance; Chip Ray for Government Solutions; Dan McCarthy Technology; and Luke Scorsone for Fabrication Services.
These operating executives will individually provide the narrative for each of our reporting segments followed by Ron who will summarize our financial results for the quarter.
And of course the entire group will address your questions following these opening remarks.
But first I have a few comments on the quarter and the outlook for the second half of the year.
Overall it was a strong quarter and we're very pleased with the results from operations.
Backlog is performing well and we continue to book a diversified blend of new work across the board while the mix with a type and value of the new business is consistent with our original sales outlook for the year.
And as you'll hear in more detail from the operating groups our total sales for the quarter was a solid mix of underpinning work distributed throughout each reporting segment combined with larger new backlog projects and added scope on existing projects.
And the back half of the year should look much like the first half in terms of general distribution and new awards.
Without naming specific prospects our expectation is that EC&amp;M or Engineering Construction and Maintenance will contribute over $6 billion of the remaining target with Fabrication Services adding another $2 billion and the remainder of the new work coming from Technology and Government Solutions.
Geographically over 45% of the new awards should be in the U.S.
with Australia Asia Pacific and the Middle East contributing the remaining opportunities for the year.
The prospects from our end markets indicate that over 30% of the remaining new awards in the second half of the year will come from LNG.
Nearly 20% from petrochemicals another 20% from power and plant services and with oil sands gas processing and refining making up the other new EC&amp;M projects.
Fabrication Services and Government Solutions each has about 10% of total with Technology contributing the remainder of the new awards of the year.
Now despite some significant LNG awards that didn't materialize this year the pipeline of new work supports the original guidance and our confidence of winning this work is very high.
Now what we see at midpoint of the year however is a question of whether a combination of government approvals funding decisions and contract negotiations for some major projects can all happen before the end of the year.
And of course we'll continue to maintain our discipline of not booking backlog until the project is approved funded and we have a commercial commitment.
So given this possible timing issue we're confident the $11 billion to $15 billion adjusted guidance has a higher probability for award this year and we hope to land in the upper half of that range at year's end.
And of course a reminder our 2013 guidance for EPS remains unchanged at $4 to $4.25 with revenue guidance unchanged at $10.7 billion to $11.2 billion.
Now a couple of comments about the integration of the 2 companies.
It's hard to believe that it was 1 year ago from this date that we announced the acquisition of the Shaw Group.
And I have to say we're very pleased with the progress to date on the combination of the 2 companies.
The organization structure has proven itself to be a rational and understandable model for our employees customers and shareholders.
Our business model which mitigates the volatility inherent with EPC earnings by creating more diversification of predictable and higher-margin revenue streams is delivering as expected.
The safety cultures of the 2 companies have been blended on over 63 million man hours worked to date with an incident rate of 0.06 for lost time accidents for all projects offices labs and fab shops around the world.
This relentless focus on safety keeps us on the upper tier of all major companies in our industry and remains one of our key competitive advantages in all of our end markets.
But in general the lines between the 2 companies have faded much faster in these short 10 months than we had anticipated and I think that shows in our results.
But we'll continue to focus and work hard on the challenges and ensure that we capitalize on every opportunity to continue to improve performance and drive shareholder value.
One other important item I want to mention before I turn it over to my colleagues.
As you know there was a tragic explosion at the Williams ethylene cracker facility on June 13 where 2 Williams employees were killed.
CB&amp;I had over 650 employees working on the site as part of the expansion project and while experiencing multiple injuries from burns and other related incidents thankfully everyone was accounted for.
Williams management discussed the incident in detail during their June 26 earnings call so we'll not be repeating any additional information here other than to say to the families of all the Williams employees and certainly our own that you're in our thoughts and our prayers.
We've resumed work at the site and are assisting Williams on the plans to have the facility safe and fully operational as soon as possible.
So let's turn to the operating group results.
First Lasse will discuss Engineering Construction and Maintenance.
Lasse? Thank you Phil.
Today I give you my comments on key initiatives markets and opportunities in the Engineering Construction and Maintenance operating group with a brief update on some of our larger ongoing projects.
But to start I'd like to highlight a few major initiatives currently in progress as part of our continued integration of acquired businesses into CB&amp;I.
As Phil was saying safety is a core value in CB&amp;I and we continue to have a robust industry-leading safety record.
CB&amp;I's proven HSE systems procedures and initiatives are being reinforced and implemented throughout the organization with particular focus on bringing in our acquired businesses into the CB&amp;I's safety platform.
We also strengthened our nuclear safety culture in all parts of CB&amp;I that are involved in delivering services and projects to the nuclear industry.
In addition we continue to implement our CB&amp;I management systems or CMSs in all operations to standardize processes systems and tools to support project execution and reduce risk.
Finally we continue to identify revenue synergy potentials between all the business units in CB&amp;I.
For instance we are evaluating the opportunities to expand the geographic presence of the power and plant services business units capitalizing on CB&amp;I's global footprint.
And we are continuing to leverage the opportunities in the refining of petrochemicals markets between technologies and our EPC businesses and we are utilizing Fabrication Services for fabrication of pipes modules and storage solutions on all projects.
Moving to our oil and gas business units where the markets continue to be healthy.
New awards in the quarter was coming from additional work on ongoing projects as well as a number of new engineering studies and projects.
For LNG we continue to see project economics conducive to new LNG developments going forward globally.
In the United States we are particularly encouraged by the recent decision from the Department of Energy to resume issuing licenses to export LNG from the United States to non-FTA free trade agreement countries.
This will enable conversion of existing LNG import terminals many of which has been built by CB&amp;I to export terminals and give CB&amp;I new opportunities to build LNG liquefaction projects.
The Freeport project received their non-FTA export license last quarter and CB&amp;I's performing the FEED study on this project together with our partner Saccharin and we're optimistic on the possibilities of participating in that EPC phase of the project.
Increasing activity is also evidenced in the offshore markets where CB&amp;I is currently performing Topsides engineering work for several projects for the North Sea and for Brazil.
We are actively pursuing EPC opportunities for Topsides modules for both fixed platforms FPSOs and for floating LNG solutions.
In the U.S.
the development of shale gas has not only enabled LNG exports it has also significantly increased the need for new gas processing and petrochemical projects.
As previously mentioned we are executing a major ethylene expansion plant -- ethylene plant expansion in Geismar Louisiana for Williams.
And we are engaged in licensing and engineering studies for additional petrochemical facilities that can convert into EPC projects.
At our oil sands projects in Canada the Kearl Expansion project and the interconnect pipe rack construction activities in the field and at our module yard continue to advance ahead of schedule.
In Papua New Guinea construction of the gas conditioning plant in the highlands is progressing according to plan.
The Komo Airfield is open and we are receiving daily flights of the Antonov planes delivering major equipment to the site.
Currently we have more than 2 500 craft working in the site.
And to date we have worked more than 12 million hours on the project without a lost-time injury.
On the Gorgon project we are progressing the MEI works in accordance with current plans.
As reported earlier we have experienced some delays mobilizing to Barrow Island due to delays experienced by the declines of civil contractor installing foundations and underground cables.
However we are confident to start increasing our manpower on the island in the next quarters.
Finally the REFICAR refinery project in Colombia for Ecopetrol continued at full force with more than 10 000 craft at site.
We have experienced a few days of labor unrest this month which has had no significant impact on the exceptional progress we have had the last months installing piping modules and equipment at the site.
The REFICAR project is a good illustration of our capability to safely deliver integrated EPC projects to our clients with a full spectrum of services offered by CB&amp;I including licensing of technology FEED and detail engineering procurement fabrication piping and modules and construction.
We have executed more than 42 million man-hours to date on the project without a lost time incident which is unsurpassed in the Americas.
Turning to power this quarter certainly brought new and exciting opportunities within air quality control system services for First Energy and Mercury and Air Toxics Standards MATS for Entergy and new plant services awards.
In June the President's climate action plan guidelines were applauded [ph] proposing new emission standards for power plants.
CB&amp;I bring years of experience with AQCS retrofits with over 40 000 megawatts of installed power generation in the past 10 years positioning us well to capitalize on this market.
During the quarter critical milestones for each on our nuclear projects.
We installed the bottom head of the containment vessels and the nuclear islands for both the Vogtle and the V.C.
Summer Nuclear Projects each bottom head weighing in excess of 1 000 tons.
In addition work was begun on the cooling towers on both sites.
As reported last quarter by a blind [ph] scanner on the V.C.
Summer project we have updated our EPC execution plans to reflect the latest module fabrication schedules from the Lake Charles fabrication yard targeting completion of the first reactor in 2017.
We also did in discussions with our clients southern company to settle the outstanding commercial issues on the Vogtle project.
Wrapping up we continue to have strong performance on our major projects and we are optimistic about our new project opportunities in all our key markets.
Phil? Thank you Lasse.
Next we'll hear from Chip Ray who will results from Government Solutions.
Chip? Thanks Phil.
The second quarter was very busy for Government Solutions.
Our financial results showed some encouraging trends but at the same time we identified several areas where we can continue to improve the group's performance.
To address these improvement opportunities we began implementing a number of strategies during the quarter which were designed to positively affect both our top line and our cost structure.
Before diving into those specific initiatives I'd like to set the stage by providing an overview of our financials our operational performance and some of the key trends we're seeing in the market.
Revenue for the quarter was on track due to the diverse mix of work across our primary business clients.
A large number of projects contributed to the quarter's results ranging from small but critically important environmental compliance work to very large EPC projects of international importance for the federal government.
The value of the quarter's new awards exceeded our revenue burn leading to a book-to-burn ratio of approximately 1.1.
So despite the negative short-term impact of sequestration our new award momentum provides some positive indicator that our clients truly recognize the value of CB&amp;I's business model.
We are strengthening our brand with our government clients.
And although it's been less than 6 months since the acquisition was completed the focus we're placing on business development is beginning to pay dividends.
Now another example of the momentum we see is the new award we signed earlier this month for approximately $150 million for an environmental project in the Western United States.
When coupled with the underpinning of small projects that Government Solutions typically receives on an ongoing basis we're off to a good start to the back half of the year.
Operating income.
Operating income showed a noticeable improvement over the first quarter's results and is within the forecast range of 3% to 6% but it's at the bottom end of the range and definitely below what our team recognizes we can achieve.
Over time the 3 factors that have the greatest impact on the group's operating income are new awards -- new awards were late [ph] over the past year but they improved this quarter; overhead -- for the current size of the group overhead is excessive but we have a plan in place; and project performance.
Our projects are generally meeting expectations with a few challenges due to sequestration.
During the quarter several of our larger projects received a fair amount of coverage most specifically discussions over the funding level for the MOX project continued in Washington.
Now that the new Energy Secretary has been confirmed we have been working with Secretary Moniz and his staff to analyze the impact of various funding levels on the overall cost and schedule of the MOX program.
This year revenue from MOX will be more than $0.5 billion.
At this stage we shouldn't speculate as to what the ultimate funding level will be for 2014 but there may be a reduction when compared to 2013.
When analyzing our overall operations I'm particularly proud to report that the group executed another quarter without a lost time accident.
Given the large portfolio of projects and the often hazardous conditions our employees encounter this is a tremendous achievement.
It's also a leading indicator of project success both in meeting our clients' needs and in delivering the financial performance our shareholders expect.
There are 2 strategic initiatives that I'd like to highlight today which were -- we implemented during the quarter and will have a significant role of positioning for the future.
First we restructured each of the groups business units based on the services we provide or the clients we serve.
This organizational approach wasn't feasible prior to the business becoming part of a larger company.
But now with CB&amp;I's geographic footprint and complete breadth of offerings we can pursue the target markets in a manner that allows us to selectively capitalize on higher profit opportunities and prioritize our resources accordingly.
Second we recently initiated plans to consolidate many of our functional resources into a central location driving increased efficiency and operational effectiveness.
With the support of the state of Louisiana we are creating an efficient overhead cost structure that will further increase our competitiveness and an overhead cost structure that is flexible to support our future growth.
In summary while there is still a level of uncertainty about government funding and priorities the Government Solutions operating group is on track to continue to grow margins revenues and new awards and enhance CB&amp;I's unique business model.
Phil? Thank you Chip.
Dan McCarthy will provide the overview of technology.
Dan? Thank you Phil.
The technology group had a very active second quarter.
The financials which Ron will cover show high revenues and earnings as we work through the backlog generated by our group over the last 2 years.
To appreciate the level of new awards activity we have to look at both the consolidated value reported in the financials and CLG's activity.
Demand for CLG products continues to exceed expectations with bookings greater than $125 million for the quarter.
The technology group achieved some important milestones in the second quarter.
First -- foremost is the closing of the E-Gas technology acquisition.
E-Gas is the trade name for an advanced coal gasification technology that had been owned by Phillips 66.
We believe there is great potential in Asia for this technology.
At the time of the acquisition E-Gas was designing facilities for Reliance Industries of India and POSCO the large steel producer in Korea.
Since the closing we've signed a license with a major energy company in China.
In addition to the license and engineering revenue E-Gas generates revenue from proprietary equipment.
During the quarter we also successfully commissioned 2 new products.
The first is the CDAlky process for the production of clean high octane gasoline blend stock from low value C4s.
Our process is based on a novel static mixing technology that reduces catalyst consumption and generates higher octane product.
We have 2 additional plants under construction and believe the technology will penetrate the market rapidly.
The second new product is our pressure swing absorption technology for hydrogen purification.
This aligns with our petrochemical technologies which produce hydrogen as a valuable byproduct.
This product is delivered as a skid-mounted solution through Lummus engineered products.
We've also completed our major upgrade at the Pasadena site this quarter.
The project had 2 major objectives: the automation of CD module manufacturing; and the consolidation of R&amp;D activities.
Both have been successfully completed.
The R&amp;D activities will benefit from an increase in available space as well as the industrial classification of the site.
Plans to build new pilot plant systems are underway.
The timing of some new technology licenses in the petrochemical space slipped to the second half of the year.
This is especially true in olefins and aromatics [ph].
We continue to work with these customers in the early phases of engineering and expect there will be a push to launch these projects before year end.
We also continue to have a substantial volume of here work [ph] associated with previously awarded ethylene licenses that has not yet been contracted.
The refinery side is driven by lube and hydrocracking projects as well as catalyst rebeds [ph].
We are also seeing gasoline desulfurization projects being developed to meet Tier 3 specification.
Tier 3 specification requires sulfur in gasoline to be reduced to 10 ppm.
We have developed attractive solutions to modify existing gasoline desulfurization plants to meet the new requirements.
In conclusion the technology group is off to a great start in 2013.
We remain confident in our markets and expect to exceed last year's income from operations.
Importantly we firmly believe our strategies will develop CB&amp;I's long-term growth objectives.
Thank you.
Thanks Dan.
Luke Scorsone will now talk about Fabrication Services.
Luke? Thank you Phil.
The Fabrication Services operating group had a strong second quarter.
Fabrication Services end markets remain robust both domestically and internationally.
These markets are strengthened through shale gas petrochemical and LNG developments.
These developments are resulting in contracts to Fabrication Services for natural gas liquids storage and terminals pressure spheres and prefabricated pipe spools.
Presently CBI has more domestic sphere contracts than in any other time in our long history.
Yesterday's announcement of the $270 million propane terminal and the first quarter award of an ethane terminal both for Sunoco Partners stem from the natural gas liquids market associated with the shale gas and petrochemical developments.
Fabrication Services was awarded during the second quarter a pipe spool fabrication contract for a major LNG project in Australia building upon CBI's strong footprint there.
We are in negotiations with several major petrochemical and integrated oil companies for long-term supply framework agreements for plate structures and fabricated pipe spools.
Fabrication Services is working closely with the company's other operating groups to enhance CBI's overall competitiveness and further strengthen project delivery certainty.
Operationally we made solid progress in a key -- achieved key milestones on several projects.
The roof of the LNG tank for the AP LNG project in Australia was successfully put into position ahead of schedule.
Using a technique developed and perfected by CB&amp;I the 1 000-metric-ton roof was lifted over 130 feet in the air using slight air pressure in the storage tank.
The LNG and related storage tanks for the Papua New Guinea LNG export terminal are nearing completion.
Key pipe spool fabrication and pipe bending production stretch targets were achieved through the Keystone Pipeline project.
Fabrication is underway and construction is ramping up at both the Sadara tank farm project in Saudi Arabia and the AGL LNG peak-shaving facility in Australia.
The storage tanks for the POSCO tank terminal on the Houston Ship Channel are nearing completion ahead of schedule.
The POSCO terminal is the largest storage tank project in the United States.
Additionally during the second quarter a number of nuclear modules were delivered to the Vogtle and V.C.
Summer project sites from CBI's Lake Charles nuclear module fabrication facility.
Just under 100 modules have been shipped to those projects so far.
Module production is expected to ramp up in the latter half of 2013.
The backlog for Fabrication Services operating group at the end of the second quarter remains a good mix of domestic and international projects in the LNG natural gas liquids nuclear gas processing and petrochemical end markets.
The largest share of the backlog approximately 95% remains the higher-margin fixed-price and unit rate contract which Fabrication Services successfully executes.
The Fabrication Services operating group was well on plan to deliver solid margins capture domestic and international sales opportunities and enhance CB&amp;I's overall competitiveness and project execution.
Phil? Thanks Luke.
Ron Ballschmiede will now cover the company's financial results.
Ron? Thank you Phil and good afternoon everyone.
Let me take you through our solid financial performance for the quarter.
In order to focus on the ongoing company operation's operating performance during the quarter I will discuss our results excluding the acquisition-related costs as set forth in more detail in our earnings release.
Revenue for the second quarter was $2.9 billion up $1.6 billion or more than double that of the second quarter of 2012.
The revenue increase reflects growth across each of our 3 legacy business units of $453 million or a very strong 35% over the comparable period.
This increase was driven by higher activity in our large projects and the execution of our higher beginning-of-the-year backlog.
The balance of the revenue growth of $1.1 billion represents revenue from the acquired business units.
We expect increasing project activity in each of our operating groups to continue throughout 2013 providing sequential quarterly revenue growth.
We remain confident that we will achieve our previously announced full-year revenue guidance of $10.7 billion to $11.2 billion.
Our gross profit for the quarter totaled $297 million versus $159 million in the comparable 2012 quarter.
The increase was driven by the acquisition and higher revenues from each of our legacy business units.
Each of our operating groups continue to benefit from solid project execution and performed consistent with our expectation.
The decline in our second quarter gross margin to 10.4% from 12.2% in the second quarter of '12 reflects the changing relative revenue volume of our legacy business units and the acquisition.
Specifically and as we expected more than 70% of our legacy quarter-over-quarter consolidated revenue increase came from our oil and gas business unit which accounted for 62% of our historical consolidated revenue base.
The balance of the gross margin decrease is attributable to the acquisition which delivers an overall slightly lower gross profit percentage than our pre-acquisition metrics.
I'll come back and discuss changes in our revenue and operating income by operating group in a moment.
Selling and administrative expense increased to $93 million from $52 million in the second quarter of 2012.
The acquisition accounted for the vast majority of dollar increase.
While our integration and consolidation activities are continuing I can confirm that our Day 1 activities and our actions to date have exceeded the high end of our previously communicated annual cost synergy savings range of $30 million to $50 million.
Accordingly we expect our full year S&amp;A expense to benefit from these savings and our continued operating leverage.
Our S&amp;A expense was 3.3% of revenues for the second quarter down 7/10 of 1% from 4% in the second quarter of 2012.
Further we expect our full-year 2013 S&amp;A expense to be approximately 3.5% of revenues down from 4.2% in 2012.
Intangible amortization totaled $16.1 million for the second quarter and we anticipate similar quarterly amounts for the balance of the year.
Our second quarter incremental intangible amortization result relating to our 2013 acquisitions was $12 million.
Acquisition-related costs for the second quarter of 2013 were comprised of severance and other one-time costs associated with the acquisition and totaled $10 million or $0.06 per share.
We continue to expect our full-year acquisition-related cost to be in the $80 million to $100 million range.
Second quarter adjusted income from operations was $195.4 million or 6.9% of revenue compared to $104 million or 8.1% of revenue in the second quarter of '12.
Our second quarter adjusted income tax rate was approximately 29% consistent with the second quarter of 2012.
Our second quarter rate benefited from previously unrecognized tax benefits realized in connection with the finalization [ph] of tax filings around the world during the quarter and we expect our full-year adjusted tax rate to be in the 30% to 32% range.
The summation of all that results in a second quarter adjusted net income of $112 million or for the first time in our history a triple-digit adjusted earnings per share of $1.04.
After including one-time acquisition costs of $0.06 per share our second quarter GAAP earnings are $0.98 per diluted share.
Our full-year adjusted EPS guidance remains unchanged at $4 to $4.35 per diluted share.
Adjusted EBITDA totaled just short of $0.25 billion for the second quarter or 8.6% of revenues compared to $121 million or 9.3% of revenues in the comparable 2012 quarter.
Now let me take you through the operating group's second quarter results.
Each of our group's second quarter 2013 results were consistent with or exceeded our expected annual range of operating results which we have discussed previously.
Specifically our annual operating performance expectations are in the range of 4% to 7% for EC&amp;M 8% to 11% for fabricated services and 3% to 6% for Government Solutions.
Based on Technology's strong year-to-date performance we have increased our 2013 annual operating income expectation to be in the $135 million range.
Phil Lasse and Dan spoke to our new awards and prospect activities so I'll provide some overall comments around new awards.
Our new awards for the second quarter totaled $2.5 billion for a book-to-burn ratio of 88% compared to $1.8 billion of new awards in the prior period.
New awards in excess of $40 million and project growth in our major projects totaled $1.5 billion.
The balance of new awards of approximately $1 billion reflect the important underpinning work which is spread nicely between our operating groups and project types around the world.
As you heard earlier in the call our updated 2013 new award guidance range is $11 billion to $15 billion.
Our June 30 2013 backlog totaled $24.5 billion up from $10.9 billion at the beginning of the year.
This increase includes the acquired backlog of approximately $15 billion.
The strengthening U.S.
dollar against other currencies during the quarter principally the Australian and Canadian dollars decreased our backlog by about $600 million.
While currency impact is an important metric to understand our backlog movements during the period the income effect of this currency movement is minimal due to the way we manage our currency flows.
EC&amp;M revenues totaled $1.7 billion in 2013 an increase of $901 million over the second quarter of '12.
Approximately 2/3 or $576 million of that increase was attributable to the acquisition.
The balance of the growth was from our oil and gas business unit which increased its revenue 43% up to $1.1 billion the most significant revenue increase related to increased activity on our LNG and gas processing work in the Asia Pacific region.
We expect these projects together with U.S.
nuclear projects to provide sequential quarterly revenue growth through the balance of 2013.
Income from operations totaled $81 million or 4.9% of revenue in the second quarter compared to $36 million or 4.7% in 2012.
Factors contributing to the change in the quarter's operating income include the impact from the acquired power revenue in the organic revenue growth discussed earlier.
The improvement in operating margins came from a more favorable mix of work in the oil and gas business unit and was offset by lower power margins driven by the seasonal nature of our power plant outage services.
Fabrication Services reported second quarter 2013 revenue of $675 million an increase of $224 million over 2012.
Fabrication and manufacturing revenue totaled $169 million with operating income of $20 million.
Steel Plate Structure revenue increased $56 million or 12% to $507 million on higher activity for LNG tank projects in the Asia Pacific region and storage tank work in North America partially offset by the completion of various projects in the Middle East.
Operating income totaled $67 million or 9.7% of revenue -- 9.9% of revenues compared to $46 million or 10.3% of revenues in 2012.
Fabrication and manufacturing operating margin was 11.9% of revenues and Steel Plate Structures margin decreased to 9.2% reflected changes in the mix of projects in process.
Lummus Technology had a strong quarter reporting revenue of $161 million compared to $89 million in the second quarter of 2012.
The increase in revenue reflects greater volume of heat transfer and licensing revenue from a higher beginning-of-the-year backlog.
Second quarter operating income totaled $36 million an increase of $14 million over 2012 reflecting increased volume and stronger refinery-related equity earnings.
Finally Government Solutions reported revenue of $353 million and operating income of $11 million or 3% of revenue.
Although in line with our expectations the quarter and year-to-date operating activities were negatively impacted by the current uncertainties with respect to government funding and spending.
Now a few comments on our balance sheet and cash flow.
Our balance sheet and liquidity remains strong with shareholder value exceeding $2 billion for the first time in our history.
Cash of $427 million and cash net of revolver borrowings was $158 million.
We continue to enjoy significant support from our credit markets with $2.2 billion of credit available to support new awards growth and strategic opportunities.
During the quarter we invested $79 million in the E-Gas technology acquisition and capital expenditures.
We serviced our debt for $38 million and paid various Shaw-acquisition-related costs.
Our investment and contract capital reflecting the combined balances of receivables inventory contracts and process and accounts payable stands at a negative $776 million at the end of the quarter compared to $325 million at the end of the year reflecting the increase related to the acquisitions.
In closing our significant backlog consistent project execution and strong financial position provides us with the necessary financial flexibility to deliver our projects to our owners and take advantage of the global energy infrastructure and government services opportunities in front of us.
We remain well positioned for opportunities to grow our company and continue to provide strong returns to our shareholders.
Phil? Thanks Ron.
And now we'll open the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from the line of Michael Dudas Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Phil as you look towards the second half of the year in discussing your guidance change would we look at more discrete projects that need to come into the fold or is there expanded scope opportunities or increase in some of the small project-type business maybe a little bit of flavor on how that might play out in the second half of the year? And is there a handful of discrete projects that if they don't make it second half maybe go into like a January February where it would not impact your 2014 visibility as much? We try to be a little bit more descriptive around the new awards for the back half with what we see remaining from not only in the end markets but which operating group and also geography.
What you say is certainly possible.
The percentages I gave you locations and project type excludes potential upside from both Freeport LNG and MOX.
Now of course also the range considers all these things occurring that I described but there's also a combination if Freeport were to be -- we're able to sign that and other major activities.
Certainly -- we run the numbers both ways the probability would indicate that the range would remain the same.
So we feel pretty confident with the adjusted range that we gave you.
But certainly as we've seen in many years there's a number of discrete projects.
As I've mentioned it's a mix of LNG and petrochemical and other types of projects which could provide upside for the year.
But we think the adjusted range is a reasonable forecast.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up for Phil is I was interested in your comments about power and I know you hired a new President for the group.
Maybe -- is that a -- taking internationally is that taking the brand or is there acquisition opportunities? And is there any kind of visibility for the U.S.
new power or plant better [ph] market that could help move that part of the business growing faster over the next couple of years? Well let me just say that first the -- Jeff Lyash is a tremendous talent directly out of the power business.
As you recall from the announcement many years in a variety of assignments including the regulatory environment as well as utility work as a leading executive for Duke Energy before the time of the merger.
So we feel very fortunate in acquiring Jeff for this position.
After the -- during the acquisition I think we announced that Clarence Ray who was the President of the Power group now will be in an interim position before he decided to finally retire.
Of course Clarence is helping us with specific initiatives and the transition.
What Jeff is going to bring to the table I think is something very important for us.
And that's not only his operations and leadership skill but certainly how our owners are looking at capital investment of nuclear and fossil investment around the world.
And that's going to be a valuable insight for us as we go forward.
So we have our eye on certainly international strategies as well as developing power opportunities in the United States and Jeff's going to be key to that strategy.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just pressing you a little bit on the new awards guidance.
If I run rate your 2Q you're still staring at a sub $10 billion award number for the year.
I think what you just said is that you're still factoring Freeport in there in some respect in the $11 billion to $15 billion.
But if Freeport slips into '14 do you have enough conviction in the prospects that you have in the second half of the year that you could at least make the low end of the range? I mean I don't know -- I'd almost care about the middle but at least the low end of the range? Yes we're pretty confident running it both ways.
As I mentioned and I think if you add the numbers I gave you we certainly think the low end of the former range which now becomes I guess the midpoint range of the new range if all that were to happen I think the upper half of that range certainly would be probable.
As we all know not everything always happens but we think even without Freeport and MOX we'll certainly be well into the range of our guidance.
Research Division</strong> But are these -- so you gave us the numbers but like when you say -- when you talk about the LNG I think you said what 30% is that mostly subcontracted roles or prime contract roles? Or maybe a little bit more description on LNG would help us think about it and anymore color you can give us on those numbers? Probably a part of the work that you don't have a lot of visibility in is the major mechanical electrical installation work that we have in Australia on a number of major projects with several of these awards still in front of us with values in excess of $1 billion.
So that certainly is -- makes up a good part of the 30% of LNG.
The other petrochemical side we anticipate there'll be at least -- we hope there'll be at least 2 major ethylene projects still to be awarded this year.
And we certainly have considered that high probability of at least one of those going forward into contract this year.
So there are some major jobs that perhaps you don't have a lot of visibility in.
But there's also some other LNG including floating LNG that's also in this mix as well.
So if all those things the timing of all those projects occur we feel pretty confident that EC&amp;M can deliver the additional $6 billion plus that we've asked them to.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
So I'm not going to bother Dan this quarter but I do want to bother Chip.
So Chip if you could maybe talk about the restructuring that you sort of alluded to a little bit in government is it possible to quantify how much cost you could take out of that business? So as we're looking at maybe 2014 versus '13 we could think about the margin uptick from the sort of new business or new business structure? Andy at this stage there were 2 initiatives I mentioned one of them was restructuring of the business units to align with either the clients we serve or the offering that we have out there.
And then I also mentioned the consolidation.
Both of them can actually lead to enhancements in both the cost structure side and the upside from the new award perspective which is being better positioned.
But at this stage I think it's early to quantify what the improvement will lead to.
I think we're confident in the range that Ron talked about that 3% to 6%.
We're at the bottom.
And as I've commented on my remarks we believe we can do better than that and move up through that range.
Your next question will come from the line of Jamie Cook Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One I think Phil during your prepared remarks you talked to coming to some resolution with Southern over the -- over the need -- at some point.
So can you just sort of give any color on how that's progressing and when we should expect incremental resolution? And then I guess my other question to you is just on the GTL side.
That's an area I feel like you should be well positioned for.
The FEED went out on Sassal [ph] so can you talk about your ability to potentially participate there and then sort of how you think about your potential participation on the Shell GTL project? Okay well first of all I'll let Lasse expand on this if he chooses.
I think Southern has certainly been in their earnings call has discussed the progress on the disputed resolutions the disputed items at Vogtle.
We're working -- all the parties are working in good faith and we're very hopeful all parties are hopeful that we'll have a resolution on this before the end of the year.
So more to come on that but certainly we're making good progress and I think everybody would like to get this thing done without having the court decide what the resolution is.
So we're working hard on those discussions and again we hope to have that resolution before year's end.
In terms of the GTL and the Shell job those are going to be interesting development.
I think certainly others might have strong position on the prime contract.
But on GTL programs prime contract is a bit difficult to describe.
I mean typically as they did in Qatar [ph] we've seen the models you've got PMT roles[ph] you certainly have process contractors.
Perhaps there could be Japanese or perhaps non-American firms that will be providing that support to either Shell or Sassal [ph].
But still there's a number of offsite utilities other major verticals which come out of these project which we're very interested in.
Plus if you look at just the opportunity in providing pipe fabrication and storage facilities just that alone and I think we're well-positioned particularly in Louisiana to provide that that's a tremendous opportunity for us.
Even though you might see the people are going a certain way on the prime contracts certainly we're structured that there will be a lot of scope we think that we can participate in.
So I can't quantify that to you but these are huge developments as you know and I think it's going to take a lot of contractors on both these jobs to make it successful.
Your next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy Johnson Rice &amp; Company.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about opportunities beyond Freeport on the LNG side North America and how you might play a role in some of those opportunities? Sure.
I'll ask Lasse to comment on a few we're tracking.
I think Lasse in the neighborhood of 14 different LNG opportunities.
Yes there's as you know there's a long list of LNG export facilities applications that are going in these days for various major and small oil companies.
So there's opportunities here on the Gulf Coast.
There's opportunities in Canada that we are tracking.
We are also involved in LNG developments on the East Coast of Africa so -- both in Mozambique and in Tanzania.
So we believe that there's good opportunities for continued EPC work in the LNG side.
Yes I think specifically what we can speculate on is that it's certainly [indiscernible] out there.
We're working on it with Freeport right now.
Certainly BG has announced plans to expand that Golden Pass and Sempra Cameron.
All this we have some level of activity with those owners and in those developments.
So as those are approved and move forward we certainly hope to be a participant in each one of those.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the technology new awards I know you mentioned that it would pick up in the second half.
Will it pick up to the kind of $150 million a quarter run rate? I don't know if you can give us any more clarity on how much it will pick back up.
Yes I would -- this is Dan.
I would say that that sort of order of magnitude number is a good number to use.
You may want to clarify too in terms of sales what we book as [ph] awards and also what's coming through as CGL.
Yes as we mentioned last year as we finished last year we mentioned that if you look at everything combined there was roughly about $1 billion worth of new business that we contracted for.
Only $700 million [ph] of which showed up in the consolidated.
And I think that's a reasonable target to keep in mind for the upcoming -- for rest of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Chase Jacobson William Blair.
Research Division</strong> When we think about some of the larger awards that are out there something like Freeport that kind of still a little bit uncertain in terms of the timing how do we think about that in terms of the impact to profitability as we wait for it to hit? Well there's very little -- even if it were to hit tomorrow there's very little built into our forecast and for margin and revenue actually.
So it's more of a ramping up for 2014 and beyond.
So even though we might adjust the new award forecast certainly the revenue and the EPS guidance remains the same.
So no impact really for this year one way or the other.
But we think the job is certainly gaining traction more support on the financial side of it as well as the government approvals.
Whether they can hit the end of the year mark is really the concern but we don't see any issues with the project going forward from our standpoint.
And we're working hard with both the owners and the partners to get this done.
So there might be some early works this year hopefully to move the project along but we're very confident in that project getting approved and moving forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the prepared comments you mentioned that you think the competitive position of the Fabrication business is improving.
Is this because the Shell legacy business has better access to the global markets? Is it a combination of the 2 businesses together? And is there anything to do with the fact that clients may be looking to do more modular fabrication? Well probably you touched on all the above.
We're certainly seeing that the fabrication business that we bought even before the combination is performing very well very well.
I think Luke would probably tell you that we're experiencing a lot of synergies between both our Steel Plate Structures business as well as the Fabrication in terms of learning the process and methodology but -- and Steel Plate Structures is performing very well.
So a combination must do a very -- somewhat predictable and high-margin opportunity that's really providing that -- a lot of value for our company.
Luke do you want to add to the strategy? Yes.
I think on the domestic side for years the domestic plate market was very depressed.
And in the last year or so that has come back very strong and that has raised our margins.
Again most of that business as you know is in the lump sum area.
So we're able to command higher margins there due to the recovery and strong demand like I said in my remarks particularly in the sphere area and in the low temperature storage and terminal side driven by a lot of the petrochemical developments.
The pipe spooling business just remains a good solid business.
We see a trend internationally where companies are taking advantage of the Shaw prefabrication approach as opposed to doing pipe spool fabrication at site.
And so our shops in the Middle East are well positioned and our Thailand shop is also well positioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay so I know you had the one contract you announced the one pipe contract in Australia.
Are you seeing much more opportunities like that over the next few quarters? We're hoping for a continued growth on that contract and we're seeing some strong orders coming in our Middle East operations for the work there.
And I think as some of the other projects in Australia advanced towards the cut metal stage we're hopeful to capture some of that work as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Jerry Revich Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about how much of a headwind was the revision to the Shaw modular solution schedule from a revenue and earnings standpoint? Obviously you're able to offset that elsewhere but I'm wondering if you'd just isolate that for us.
And if you could just provide some more context on the southern company settlement discussion.
Obviously the public documents indicate a pretty significant dollar amount for the disconnect.
I'm just wondering how would you frame for us? What's the Shaw versus the other -- versus the Westinghouse element of that discussion any color at all would be helpful.
Let's first talk about what you characterize as a headwind.
I guess you were referring to the Lake Charles facility and their delivery schedule to the projects.
You wanted -- Luke can you comment on that? Yes I think we've -- like I said in my remarks we've delivered over combined between both projects 100 modules with the concrete pour happening and the head being set those modules are on-site being prefabricated -- being put together into larger modules to be set on the nuclear island.
This fall we're ramping up our production.
We're clearing out some backlog and modules that we have at Lake Charles and we're working closely with power construction on integrated schedules.
So as far as headwind this year with the pour being done in May and the head set thereafter it probably wouldn't impact much of this year.
And if we gain momentum on module shipment we should be able to get on a revenue track going into '14 that's consistent with overall project delivery.
Your question about the dispute.
I won't get into a lot of what the specifics of the discussion or the changes.
But let me just preface that by saying all those changes that we looked and it is a substantial number in the hundreds of millions of dollars as you point out it's all about improving the safety and the reliability of the facility okay.
Now that there is certainly a question in dispute just how much that was all worked [ph].
But certainly it was all directed towards quality and safety and reliability issues on the plant which is good for everyone.
As far as who is responsible for what the contract is very explicit about how that will be resolved.
We feel that from a CB&amp;I standpoint certainly we -- the contract was we saw during diligence was very strong or very explicit about our responsibility.
We have not forecasted nor do we anticipate any material impact on our income statement this year or subsequent years.
So but it really is just getting the changes discussed and resolved and put behind us so we can move forward.
So we're hoping to get that done before the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And you initially booked a nice size propane tank project.
I'm wondering if you could just frame the market opportunity for either propane export or similar projects in the U.S.
How many of such opportunities are out there? Was this a unique situation? Luke? Yes we're tracking a few more of those.
A lot of them are highly proprietary.
But certainly we see a trend towards facilities going in that direction or modifications to existing facilities adding capability to export the natural gas liquids or to handle natural gas liquids.
So we're well positioned there and it's helping us on our sphere market and even in the conventional storage that go along with these facilities other than the large ones so -- also there's a secondary effect on marginalization and pipe spooling that goes with that whole program of natural gas liquids stemming from the petrochemical developments.
And we do have time for one final question.
And that final question will come from the line of Vishal Shah Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just get your thoughts on utilization rates in the fab facilities as we exit the year.
How should we think about it from a margin perspective? And then you also talk about your outlook for module cost synergies.
I know you said that you're running above the $30 million to $50 million run rate can you maybe talk about what sort of timeframe are you looking at to provide an update on that front? The second part of that question? I didn't catch the second.
The first part was fab facilities utilization.
Can you restate the second one? Then I can address the utilization one.
The second one is on the module cost synergies and you said you were running above the run rate that you had provided earlier.
Okay.
All right Luke will take the first one and Ron will answer the second part of your question.
On the fab facilities we're fortunate to have a variety of shops both internationally and domestically that have capacity available.
And we're in the discussions like I mentioned about with a number of key operating companies to get that space committed for work in the U.S.
And I think internationally we're seeing some strong orders coming through.
So I think there's -- to answer your question our utilization is available.
It's -- certainly the investments we've made and the investments Shaw made making Shaw very competitive and the high-quality so we're very excited about the market trends we see vis-à-vis our pipe fabrication and our modernization capabilities.
Ron? Sure.
On the cost synergy the first phase was really all around the elimination of duplicative public company costs and the consolidation of sort of what I would call the corporate function and we've made great progress on that.
And while you never can declare it being done we've achieved our objective earlier than we thought.
The next round is really similar to what Chip was describing earlier.
Each of the business units have opportunities for additional consolidations and working together.
We're really not in a position yet to talk about quantifying that number but there are a lot of actions that will continue to be developed for the balance of this year and certainly be articulated as we go into 2014 planning and guidance et cetera.
Yes I think just from a -- from what you can anticipate this year.
I think what Ron's saying is that $30 million to $50 million target we're extremely confident that that we'll achieve that.
And certainly it will be an ongoing process.
And as we identify more costs we'll certainly report these.
But for today we think it's probably a good idea to focus on our $30 million to $50 million as you look into the performance of our company for the remainder of the year.
I'd now like to turn the day's conference back over to Mr.
Asherman for closing remarks.
Well I don't have any more summary remarks other than to say that does conclude our call for today.
And we certainly thank you for your time and your questions.
Goodbye.
And thank you for your participation on today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Before beginning today's call the company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company's press release and the SEC filing.
While forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we report Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron's results for the third quarter.
With me today is CB&amp;I's Chief Financial Officer Ron Ballschmiede who'll discuss the company's overall financial performance.
We also have reports from CB&amp;I's 4 operating groups: Lasse Petterson for Engineering Construction and Maintenance; Chip Ray for Government Solutions; Dan McCarthy for Technology; and Luke Scorsone for Fabrication Services.
These operating executives will individually provide the narrative for each of our reporting segments followed by Ron who will summarize our financial results for the quarter.
And of course the entire group will address your questions following these opening remarks.
But first we had solid third quarter performance from all of our operating groups with revenue and earnings for the combined operations in line with expectations.
New awards for the quarter were a good mix of new growth on projects combined with a substantial amount of underpinning work spread throughout each unit.
As Ron will discuss our liquidity is good ending the quarter with a cash balance approaching $600 million.
New awards of $2.5 billion were significantly up over third quarter of last year and we expect the announcement of large EPC projects in oil and gas plus new sales in our other groups will land us in the new awards guidance range for the year.
As to our guidance for 2013 EPS and revenue we remain confident that we'll achieve the results for this year well within the range we announced first quarter.
Now a word on the integration since the close of the transaction in February.
I'm very pleased with the progress we've made on many fronts.
For example applying CB&amp;I's best practices our safety performance on nearly 100 million manhours worked year-to-date around the world remains one of the best records in the industry.
We achieved several important milestones in both V.C.
Summer and Vogtle Nuclear projects this year.
And Lasse and Luke will report our pace of modular delivery which is critical to achieving the schedule of both sites has improved significantly since we assumed control of the operations.
We've also announced a new benefit program beginning January 1 for all of our employees which will keep us in the top tier as an employer of choice in our industry.
Cost synergies should exceed $50 million this year and we expect to drive additional efficiencies in 2014 for another $50 million.
We see tremendous synergy opportunities with our expanded fabrication capabilities for capturing more of the wallet on CB&amp;I's backlog while benefiting as a preferred supplier for capital work on much of the new energy infrastructure around the world.
Despite the pressure on government spending our Government Solutions group has posted solid results because of a diversified approach to the group's traditional markets: environmental infrastructure and federal and state government programs.
Our plant and maintenance capabilities have added a new value add to our oil and gas business internationally and we continue to capitalize on our ability to leverage our position in power services and small capital work for traditional customers.
Now one of the fundamental success factors in the integration has been the management team's ability to scale the business in terms of authority responsibility and accountability.
This is demonstrated in many ways including retaining our combined workforce which continues at a single-digit attrition rate since the acquisition plus the continuity in our senior management team; our customers belief in our reliability to deliver on our commitments around the world driving new awards at record levels; and of course our investors' confidence in the business as reflected in the market since we closed on February 13.
So let's turn to the operating group reports.
First Lasse Petterson will discuss Engineering Construction and Maintenance.
Lasse? Thanks Phil.
Today I'll comment on key initiatives markets and opportunities for the Engineering Construction and Maintenance operating group with a brief update on some of our large ongoing projects.
To start I'd like to highlight a few major initiatives currently in progress.
Safety is a core value at CB&amp;I and we continue to have a robust industry-leading safety record.
The integration efforts of our safety platform to their acquired business continued during the period including rolling out our obligatory 40-hour supervisor and safety training course to the new supervisory personnel.
Additionally we continue to implement our CB&amp;I management system or CMS in all operations to standardize processes systems and tools to support consistent project execution delivering projects at the correct quality within budget safely and on time.
Finally we continue to identify and capitalize on the synergy potentials between all businesses in CB&amp;I resulting in new contracts such as in this quarter winning a plant services contract in Peru for maintenance and operation support for the Peru LNG liquefaction facility completed in 2010 by CB&amp;I.
During the quarter we announced an agreement with CPI China Power Investment one of the largest state-owned power generation companies in China to perform a joint venture to build nuclear power plants in China.
Today China operates 70 nuclear power plants with 15 gigawatts of nuclear power generation capacity with plans to increase this to 58 gigawatts by 2020 with a further 30-gigawatt nuclear power under construction by then most of which will be with advanced third-generation nuclear technology such as the AP1000 units at Sanmen and Haiyang.
CB&amp;I -- CPI has several AP1000 projects planned to go forward in 2014 and '15 such as the Haiyang units 3 and 4 and Bailong units 1 and 2.
Now we'll offer some general perspective on our end markets opportunities and status of our major projects.
Our oil and gas markets continue to be healthy with new awards this quarter coming from additional work on ongoing projects as well as a number of awards of smaller projects and studies.
For LNG we continue to see projects' economics conducive to new LNG developments going forward globally.
In the United States we are engaged on several LNG export projects conducting FEED studies and bidding for EPC works.
On Freeport LNG we have completed the FEED study and are expecting the FERC approval early in 2014 and we continue to be engaged by the client to perform preparatory work for the EPC phase of the project.
We have bid the Sempra Cameron LNG project in Louisiana and the client is planning to award the EPC contract in the first quarter of 2014.
Additionally we are engaged on 2 other LNG FEED studies for the U.S.
Gulf Coast one of which is for Exxon's Golden Pass Project where CB&amp;I recently constructed the LNG import terminal.
This quarter we were selected to perform the pre-FEED study for Exxon and Rosneft's joint LNG development in Sakhalin on the east coast of Russia and this work is performed in our London offices.
On Chevron's Gorgon LNG project in Australia we are progressing the MEI works in accordance with current plans.
The large process modules are being completed at fabrication yards in Southeast Asia and continue to arrive at Barrow Island at an increasing pace.
During first half of 2014 we expect to increase our manpower on the island to full force.
In the offshore and pipeline markets we are fully engaged on the Mariner and Aasta Hansteen projects for Statoil where the engineering work is proceeding well in our London and Hague offices.
Our engineering and project management work for BP on their South Caucasus Pipeline project in conjunction with the Shah Deniz field development is also proceeding to plan in our London office.
The gas processing and petrochemical markets continue to have opportunity for significant additions as a result of the shale gas developments in the U.S.
We continue to leverage the opportunities in the refining and petrochemical markets between technologies and our EPC businesses and we are bidding for ethylene cracker projects both in the U.S.
and in Russia; and gas processing projects in the U.S.
and the Middle East.
We are supported and continue to work diligently with Williams to complete the ethylene plant expansion project in Geismar Louisiana.
As reported in June the existing plant suffered an explosion and fire.
We have resumed work to complete the expansion project and we are assisting the client in the recovery and repair of the existing facility.
Engineering on the DONG gas conditioning project in Denmark is proceeding well and we have mobilized to the site in Fredericia; and engineering and procurement work for Exxon's Longford gas plant in Victoria Australia is also proceeding to plan.
In Papua New Guinea construction of the gas conditioning plant in the highlands is processing according to schedule.
Currently we have more than 2 500 crafts working at the site.
And to date we have worked more than 15 million hours without a lost-time injury.
Our oil sands projects in Canada the Kearl Expansion Project and the interconnecting pipe rack project construction activities in the field and at our module yard continue to advance ahead of schedule.
And finally the REFICAR refinery project in Colombia for Ecopetrol continue with more than 10 000 crafts at site.
The project is a reflection of CB&amp;I's unrelenting focus on safety.
More than 45 million manhours without a lost-time injury have been executed which is unsurpassed in the Americas.
During July and August we experienced an industrial action situation that persisted for more than 8 weeks.
The situation has been resolved and we are again experiencing good progress at the site.
Engineering is complete.
We have received all materials to the site and construction is more than 55% complete.
Turning to power.
In the second quarter of this year we achieved a critical milestone of placing the bottom heads of the containment vessels in the nuclear island on both the Vogtle and V.C.
Summer nuclear projects each unit weighing in excess of 1 000 tons.
Currently fabrication of the containment vessel is in progress and nuclear island structure modules are arriving at site daily.
In November both projects will reach another historic milestone by placing the base mats for both V.C.
Summer's unit 3 and Vogtle's unit 4.
On each project we will pour 32 000 square feet mats 7 feet deep; in total more than 7 000 cubic yards of concrete.
The pour will be continuous and take more than 40 hours to complete.
The module assembly at sites for the CA-20 module is progressing well and we are on schedule to meet the next milestones for lifting and setting the module.
We're also providing EPCN services for 4 AP1000 units at 2 project sites in China.
At Sanmen and Haiyang the containment vessel top heads were set earlier this year with the welding and final NDE on the weld seam now complete.
These are the first AP1000 units to be built and we have an extensive lesson-learned program in place to ensure transfer of experience gained on these first reactor projects to the Vogtle and the V.C.
Summer projects.
We are in the midst of a hectic maintenance and turnaround season for the U.S.
nuclear power stations.
This fall we have in total 9 nuclear power stations outages: 4 is complete 3 is ongoing and 2 will start in November.
And today we have more than 12 000 people engaged in this market performing smaller construction projects turnarounds maintenance and operation support services.
Phil? Thanks Lasse.
Next we'll hear from Chip Ray who will report the results from Government Solutions.
Chip? Thanks Phil.
Government Solutions was given its name because the group provides services to federal state and local government clients and we provide those same services to private sector clients who principally use them to comply with laws regulations or codes.
The group's largest client the U.S.
federal government recently ended its fiscal year on September 30.
From an industry perspective it was a challenging year with dysfunction in Washington creating an atmosphere of uncertainty regarding the stability of existing programs and the timing of future work.
Of the numerous political disagreements that affected both funding levels and the prioritization of government spending sequestration placed the most pressure on the competitive landscape.
The primary challenge faced is that as designed these mandated spending cuts have a disproportionate impact on 2 of the departments we traditionally serve: the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy.
Despite these difficult market conditions as Phil stated Government Solution's third quarter was actually relatively strong.
New awards were over $300 million for the second quarter in a row revenue increased 7% versus the prior quarter and operating income continued its positive trend rising from 2.3% of revenue in the first quarter to 3% in the second quarter and on to 4.2% in the most recent quarter.
This ongoing improvement is a direct result of the efforts of a talented team of employees who have aligned with CB&amp;I's culture and implemented strategic as well as cost-savings initiatives to enhance our bottom line.
Now focusing on sales.
Due to the previously discussed market conditions we have seen a reduction in our underpinning of small awards primarily driven by a reduction in the number of task orders issued this year associated with MATOCs or Multiple Award Task Order Contracts.
Also the historic trend where a large number of task orders were awarded during the government's fourth quarter didn't fully materialize.
For those task orders that moved forward the procurement process that once took a few weeks has been noticeably extended.
In addition sequestration along with the shutdown has slowed the evaluation process for many of the government's larger projects.
As a result a fair percentage of the key opportunities we were pursuing for possible award in the second half of the year have slipped into 2014.
With that said it's worth noting that the government considers the vast majority of these projects to be critically important and we're continuing our efforts to position for the work which should proceed at some point in the near term.
Moving to operations.
Sequestration has led to employee furloughs which has slightly reduced the group's revenues and corresponding earnings.
Our MOX project progressed as expected reaching 60% complete in the quarter.
However funding constraints due to congress and the administration not agreeing to a full year budget or a continuing resolution have led to a reduction in our workforce at MOX until funding is fully restored.
I'm proud to report that we had another quarter with 0 lost-time incidents and we have made great strides implementing CMS across the group.
Looking forward the government began its fiscal year our fourth quarter with a 16-day shutdown.
The obvious question is how has this affected our performance? If you recall Government Solutions which accounts for approximately 13% of the company's revenue has 4 primary offerings for the U.S.
federal government: EPC projects environmental remediation program management and disaster response.
The shutdown led to the furlough of what is termed nonessential personnel from across the entire federal government.
Based on the broad nature of the furloughs each of our business lines was affected to varying degrees.
Drilling down much of our EPC and program management work for the DOE and DOD continued during the shutdown because it's considered mission critical.
And at present there isn't a large FEMA emergency response program to support.
As a result the business that was most adversely impacted was our environmental work.
The shutdown will affect our fourth quarter results but our employees are back to work and we're taking steps to sustain our profitability.
In closing and on another positive note we're positioning the group to capitalize on the opportunities that are in keeping with our strict selectivity criteria.
Work with our state and with our local government clients has been growing and we have a number of synergistic pursuits alongside CB&amp;I's other operating groups most specifically for the company's oil and gas clients.
Excluding the impact of the shutdown our projects are performing as expected both financially and in terms of safety and we're on the path to achieve continual growth notwithstanding current market conditions.
Phil? Thanks Chip.
Now Dan McCarthy will talk about Technology.
Dan? Thank you Phil and good afternoon to everyone.
Technology's new awards rebounded in the third quarter and revenue and earnings grew based on backlog booked in previous quarters.
CLG continued to enjoy a strong market for its technologies and catalysts.
Ron will cover the financials in detail later.
We also had the official grand opening of the Pasadena research and catalyst module manufacturing center.
We never thought we would require an assembly line in this business but it works great and the cost savings we're enjoying are substantial.
Technology's new awards were heavily weighted towards Asia Pacific.
The largest single award was a paraxylene project for the GS Caltex refinery.
This will be their fourth paraxylene unit.
We're extremely pleased that our Technology benefits were sufficient to convince GS Caltex to change process platforms for this additional unit.
Another key project award was an ethylene furnace in the United States.
This ethane-based furnace illustrates producers continued commitment to maximize production from advantaged shale gas feedstock.
Other large projects awarded in the quarter include a C4 processing complex a methanol-to-olefins unit and 2 olefins conversion units.
The CLG joint venture benefited from catalyst orders base oil licensing and a hydrocracker license in China.
Hydrocracking licensing in China has been a difficult proposition but our current success seems to indicate a greater willingness to import this type of technology.
In general the marketplace moved forward at a more deliberate pace than 2012.
Even with this quarter's strong new award results we have seen a delay in the award of a number of prospects.
Notwithstanding the level of proposal activity remains very high especially in aromatics olefins and hydro processing and we continue to be optimistic about the next 5 quarters.
On the operations side I will cover 3 topics: Lummus engineered products the Reliance coal gasification project and Novolin polypropylene.
Lummus engineered products often referred as LEP was formed at the time of the Shaw acquisition to focus on delivery of technology-based products that do not lend themselves to a licensing model.
I'm pleased to report that customers have responded very well to the concept of prefabricated modular solutions.
This business has had a number of important successes in sulfur recovery units procurement and installation of reactor internals and engineering services associated with projects to modify gasoline desulfurization units to meet Tier 3 gasoline regulations.
In 2013 these projects were released for front-end engineering and therefore had a relatively small impact on new awards and revenue.
As these projects enter the procurement and fabrication stages in 2014 LEP's financial contributions will become more significant leading to Technology's growth in 2014 and beyond.
The Reliance project is a $4 billion investment in coal gasification.
It consists of 10 gasification trains.
Our scope includes license engineering services and proprietary equipment supply through our approved fabricators.
While basic engineering has been completed we assess our progress in the project at 50%.
Startup is forecasted for 2015.
We are also executing similar projects for POSCO and CNOOC.
We believe that the Asian market will provide continued growth opportunities for coal gasification.
In the third quarter we completed the strategic realignment of our catalyst supply chains by signing agreements with Clariant.
We will work together on an exclusive basis to develop and manufacture polypropylene catalysts including metallocenes.
Subsequently we announced that a new polypropylene catalyst plant will be constructed in Louisville Kentucky.
This new supply chain will take effect in 2015 and we anticipate that it will increase our market penetration.
In summary we continue to be optimistic about the general market and believe that our strategic move in catalysts coal gasification and Lummus engineered products will propel our business group on its growth trajectory.
Thank you.
Thanks Dan.
Luke Scorsone will discuss Fabrication Services.
Luke? Thank you Phil.
Today I will highlight the status of the current integration efforts and provide commentary on new awards associated end markets and operations for the Fabrication Services operating group for the third quarter of 2013.
Integration activities continue to advance according to plan.
The rollout of CB&amp;I's management system continued in the pipe fabrication and module shops with full implementation expected by the end of the year.
During the quarter the Fabrication Services group continued to standardize practices through the training of over 1 200 people with over 18 000 training hours in a variety of topics ranging from safety to project execution.
In tandem with the integration efforts the Fabrication Services group continues to pursue key initiatives to leverage CB&amp;I's strategic positioning and business model.
As commented upon during the second quarter earnings call Fabrication Services is in advanced negotiations with operating companies to secure long-term supply agreements for plate structures and pipe spools.
Through various initiatives Fabrication Services is enhancing its ability to market best-in-class key project components to third parties including plate structures pipe spools pipe induction bending and modularization.
Fabrication Services continues to work in close coordination with the company's other operating groups to capture domestic and international sales opportunities and enhance CB&amp;I's competitive positioning.
In regards to our end markets Fabrication Services continues to experience healthy domestic and international demand.
Domestically activity associated with shale gas monetization remains steady as evidenced by the third quarter awards that include a propane terminal in Pennsylvania low-temperature propane and butane storage facilities in Texas and several pressure sphere contracts.
We expect the domestic market for Fabrication Services to remain positive owing to growth in shale gas petrochemicals and gas-to-liquid developments.
Internationally Fabrication Services booked a mix of underpinning work in the Middle East Canada and South America.
The Fabrication Services operating group had a strong third quarter of operations.
We continue to make encouraging progress on strengthening a quality-driven nuclear safety-conscious work environment at our Lake Charles nuclear fabrication shop.
During the quarter Fabrication Services made headway on a number of underpinning projects in the Middle East North and South America and Australia.
Our large LNG storage projects in Australia and the Asia-Pacific region continue to perform according to expectations relying upon the support provided by our in-house fabrication shops in the Middle East and Thailand.
Backlog for the Fabrication Services group for the third quarter remains a good mix of domestic and international projects in the LNG low-temperature nuclear gas processing and petrochemical end markets.
The largest share of the backlog approximately 94% remains the higher-margin fixed-price and unit-rate contracts.
In summation the results for the third quarter highlight that the Fabrication Services operating group continues to steadily deliver quick revenue burn high margins new growth and enhanced competitiveness to CBI's integrated business model.
Thanks Luke.
Now Ron Ballschmiede will review the financial results.
Ron? Thanks Phil and good afternoon everyone.
Let me take you through our solid financial performance for the quarter.
In order to focus on the ongoing company's operating performance I will discuss the results excluding the acquisition-related costs as set forth in more detail in the earnings release.
Revenue for the third quarter was $3 billion up $1.5 billion or more than double that of the third quarter of 2012.
The revenue increase reflects growth across each of our 3 legacy business units of $384 million or 27% over the comparable period driven by increased activities on our large projects and the execution of our higher beginning-of-the-year backlog.
The balance of the revenue growth of $1.2 billion represents revenue from our acquired operations.
We remain confident that we will see -- that we will achieve our previously announced full year revenue guidance of $10.7 billion to $11.2 billion.
Our gross profit for the quarter totaled $317 million versus $189 million in the comparable 2012 quarter.
The increase was driven by the acquisition and higher revenues from each of our legacy operations.
Each of our operating groups continued to benefit from solid project execution and performed consistent with our expectations.
The decline in consolidated third quarter gross margin to 10.6% from 13.1% in the third quarter of 2012 reflects the changing relative revenue volume of our legacy business units and more importantly the acquisition.
Specifically and as we expected more than 2/3 of our legacy quarter-over-quarter consolidated revenue increase came from our oil and gas business unit which accounted for 62% of our historical consolidated revenue base.
The balance of the gross margin decrease is attributable to the acquisition which delivers an overall lower gross profit percentage than our pre-acquisition metrics.
On a sequential quarterly basis our gross margin improved by 20 basis points over the second quarter of 2013.
Obviously both of those periods included the acquired units for the full quarters.
I'll come back and discuss changes in our revenue and operating income by operating group in a moment.
Selling and administrative expense increased to $94 million from $53 million in the third quarter of 2012.
The acquisition accounted for the vast majority of the dollar increase.
While our integration and consolidation activities are continuing as I indicated in our second quarter earnings call our day 1 activities and our actions to date have exceeded the high end of our previously communicated annual synergy savings range of $30 million to $50 million.
And as Phil mentioned work continues to achieve a similar range of savings in 2014.
Accordingly we expect our full year S&amp;A expense to benefit from these savings and our continued operating leverage to improve.
Our S&amp;A expense was 3.1% of revenues for the quarter down 0.6% from 3.7% in the third quarter of '12.
Further we expect our full year 2013 S&amp;A expense to be slightly under 3.5% of revenues down from 4.2% in 2012.
Intangible amortization totaled $17.4 million for the third quarter and we anticipate similar quarterly amounts for the balance of the year.
Our third quarter incremental intangible amortization relating to our 2013 acquisition was $13 million.
Acquisition-related costs for the third quarter were comprised of severance and other onetime costs associated with the acquisition and totaled $5.3 million or $0.04 per share.
We continue to expect our full year acquisition-related and integration costs to be in the $80 million to $100 million range.
Third quarter adjusted income from operations was $207.4 million or 6.9% of revenue compared to $131.7 million or 9.7% of revenue in 2012.
Our third quarter and year-to-date adjusted income tax rate were approximately 27% and 29% respectively.
Our third quarter adjusted income tax rate benefited approximately 3 percentage points due to a more favorable mix of geographic income and higher available global tax credits.
We are expecting our full year adjusted tax rate to be in the 29% to 30% range.
The summation of all that results in third quarter adjusted net income of $121.3 million or adjusted earnings per share of $1.12 the highest in our company's history.
After including our onetime acquisition costs of $0.04 per share our third quarter GAAP earnings are $1.08 per diluted share.
Our full year adjusted EPS guidance remains unchanged at $4 to $4.35 per diluted share.
Adjusted EBITDA totaled $259 million or 8.7% of revenue compared to $149 million or 10.3% of revenue in the comparable 2012 quarter.
Now let me take you through the operating group third quarter results.
Each of our group's third quarter 2013 results were consistent with or exceeded our expected annual range of operating results which we have discussed previously.
Specifically our annual performance expectation for operating income in the range of 4% to 7% is expected for EC&amp;M 8% to 11% for Fabrication Services and 3% to 6% for Government Solutions.
Based on Technology's strong year-to-date performance we have increased our 2013 annual operating income expectations to be in excess of $140 million.
Phil Lasse and Dan and Luke spoke to our new awards and prospect activities so I'll provide some overall comments.
Our new awards for the third quarter totaled $2.5 billion for a book-to-burn ratio of 83% compared to $930 million of new awards for the 2012 comparable period.
Our announced new awards and project growth in major projects totaled $1.4 billion in the quarter.
The balance of new awards of approximately $1.1 billion reflects the important underpinning work which is spread nicely around the world and between our operating groups.
With our year-to-date new awards of approximately $7 billion and the quality prospects which you heard about earlier in the call our full year new award guidance remain -- range remains $11 billion to $15 billion.
Our September 30 2013 backlog totaled $24.5 billion up from $10.9 billion at the beginning of the year.
This increase includes our acquired backlog of approximately $15.6 billion.
EC&amp;M's third quarter revenue totaled $1.8 billion an increase of $880 million over the third quarter of 2012.
Approximately 70% or $619 million of that increase was attributable to the acquisition.
The balance of the revenue growth was organic growth coming out of the oil and gas business unit which increased its revenue 30% to $1.1 billion.
The most significant organic revenue increase related to increased activity of our LNG and gas processing work in the Asia-Pacific region.
We expect these projects together with the U.S.
nuclear projects to provide sequential fourth quarter revenue growth for the business unit.
Income from operations totaled $75 million or 4.3% of revenue in the third quarter of 2013 compared to $45 million or 5.2% in 2012.
Factors contributing to the change in quarterly operating income included the impact of the acquired power revenue and the organic revenue growth discussed earlier.
The decline in operating margins reflect generally the lower profit margins from power and the lower second and third margins driven by the seasonal nature of our power plant's outage services.
Oil and gas margins decreased slightly due to the dilutive effect of scope growth and larger -- at lower margin levels partially offset by the improved operating leverage in the quarter.
Fabrication Services reported 2013 revenue of $707 million an increase of $282 million over 2012's third quarter.
The acquired operations revenue totaled $164 million with operating income of $16 million.
Steel plate structures revenue increased $118 million or 28% to $543 million on higher activity for LNG tank projects in the Asia-Pacific region and storage tank work in North America.
Operating income totaled $72 million or 10.2% of revenue compared to $45 million or 10.6% of revenue in 2012.
Fabrication and manufacturing operating margin was 9.8% of revenue and steel plate structure margins were 10.3% reflecting changes in the mix of the projects in process.
Lummus Technology had a strong quarter reporting revenue of $156 million compared to $151 million in the third quarter of 2012.
The increase in revenue reflects a greater volume of heat transfer and licensing revenue from a higher beginning-of-the-year backlog.
Third quarter operating income totaled $45 million benefited from the -- benefiting from the timing of delivering licensing activities and reflecting the increase in refining-related equity earnings.
Finally Government Solutions revenue of $378 million and reported operating income of $16 million or 4.2% of revenues.
Although in line with our expectations the quarter and year-to-date new awards were negatively impacted by the current uncertainties with respect to government funding as Chip spoke to earlier.
Now a few comments on our balance sheet and cash flow.
Our balance sheet liquidity remains strong.
At the end of September our shareholders' equity exceeds $2.2 billion our cash balance of $543 million and our cash net of revolver borrowings was $300 million an improvement of $141 million from the end of the second quarter of 2013.
We continue to enjoy significant support from the credit markets with support -- to support our new awards growth and strategic opportunities.
Our 4-year $1.1-billion revolving credit facility was due to expire in mid-2014.
Yesterday we finalized our new $1.35-billion replacement facility.
The new facility has a 5-year term expiring in 2018 and brings our total revolver facilities to $2 billion.
The facilities will continue to be utilized primarily for project-related letters of credit to support the significant opportunities in front of us.
During the quarter we invested $20 million in capital expenditures serviced $19 million of our long-term debt and paid $5 million of common stock dividends.
Our investment in contract capital reflecting the combined balances of receivables inventory contracts in process and accounts payable stands at a negative $1.2 billion at the end of the quarter compared to a negative $325 million at the end of the year the increase primarily reflecting the acquisition effect.
In closing our significant backlog consistent project execution and strong financial position provides us with the necessary financial flexibility to deliver our projects to our owners and take advantage of the global energy infrastructure and Government Solutions opportunities.
Phil? Thanks Ron.
We ran a little longer than what we normally do.
As you can see our comment -- prepared comments are scaled along with our business so -- but we still have time for your questions.
So we'll open the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I'll try to -- I'll keep to one question so we can move along.
Wanted to flesh out with Dan a little bit about his comments of -- a little bit of more I wouldn't say caution but deliberate opportunities from the client base.
And as I look -- we look into 2014 is -- are the new businesses that he acquired and some of the opportunities going to be able to allow the growth in income that we've been kind of used to in the last couple of years despite the backlog and maybe some of the businesses are falling down towards end of the year? Yes I would not say that the market is moving in a downward direction.
What I was saying is that the investment is so large and that customers -- we find that customers are delaying final decisions as they do more analysis.
We have not seen any prospects diminish -- disappear excuse me.
And in addition our proposal activity continues to increase.
So I don't have a negative perspective of the market at all.
And then you asked about the -- some of the strategies.
I think our strategies in modular solutions and coal gasification -- it's hard for us in the United States to think coal gasification is a great opportunity.
But when you look at places that don't have -- that are importing LNG and currently have coal resources it not only provides them an alternate source but it gives them a little bit of ability to stabilize their economy in case of any supply disruptions.
And to your question of trends on income the answer is yes we do expect that to continue to improve.
Your next question is from Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Phil you've done $7 billion in new awards so far but we know what your range is.
And then to get even to the bottom end of the range you're going to have a big 4Q $4 billion.
Can you do without Freeport? And if so is it because you're confident in big petchem and subcontract LNG work? I mean could you help us out with what you see over the next quarter or 2? Yes.
I know your range was a bit different than ours Andy.
But we sit here looking into fourth quarter at the opportunity for going to contract for a few major awards certainly petrochemical gas gas processing and some LNG.
Not all of those may be as visible on your screen but that does not include a Freeport nor any assumptions of acceleration on the Sempra award if we were to be successful on that bid.
So it's what we still see out there with high counts and[ph] probability that we're -- we can achieve that.
Of course with the mix of Fabrication Services and the other groups it's probably got a pretty -- it's going to be in the lower part of that range but we think we can get there.
Research Division</strong> Okay so that's helpful.
And Ron maybe this one is for you.
Can you talk about sequentially in your EC&amp;M business margins were down.
And I know you gave some reasons for margins what they are but revenues were up pretty decently.
So we would expect utilization to help a bit.
We know the nuclear projects are in there.
You mentioned Cartagena's sort of an 8-week delay.
So what happened in the quarter? Was there any more noise on the nuclear projects in terms of cost and/or did Cartagena hurt margins a little bit? What happen in that...
Sure.
The nuclear projects continue to perform as in the past where our revenues from those nuclear projects were just under $0.25 billion which is consistent with our run rate in the second quarter and the first half of the -- and the last half of the first quarter.
I think the bigger items in the quarter would be certainly -- the nuclear power outages and refueling projects all are in the first quarter and in the fourth quarter generally.
They are -- that is the seasonal nature of that -- the plant services business and because of the technical expertise in that drives a higher return.
So that's similar to the second quarter.
The other item is I mentioned in the remarks certainly the significant growth in sort of the reimbursable work still good margin but not as strong as the average in some cases just reflecting the fact that those are cost-reimbursable jobs.
So that has a tendency to have a bit of a catch-up when you're running through the POC.
That had a negative impact in the quarter.
So I wouldn't expect that to -- that will reverse itself in Q4 and going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay Ron.
So similar margins for the nuclear projects between 2Q and 3Q right? That's what you're saying? Yes and some more revenue work[ph].
Your next question is from Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering could you talk about the margin outlook over the next year or 2 in the Fabrication Services and the role that the traditional piping business of Shaw might play in the mix and the impact on the margins there? Well I'll start and Luke I'll ask you to add some color to it.
That business is performing at least as well if not better than we expected.
Part of that is certainly looking at our own backlog and prospective backlog and making sure that we include all elements of Fabrication Services including pipe fabrication in the prospects going forward.
That's been not quite as apparent this year as it will be next.
But certainly we expect to see that.
Overall internationally we continue to be as I mentioned in my comments a preferred contractor.
Luke and his team are negotiating long-term contracts -- supply contracts with major owners going forward.
Because I think the resource capacity -- supply capacity is going to be the real determining factor in many of these projects going forward.
So our outlook is good.
I think -- historically I think when you look at what Shaw was reporting the Fabrication Services it was in the strong double-digits in terms of margins.
And we don't see any reason that that should diminish as we increase the volume but -- because we have a lot of efficiencies between the 2.
Luke do you want to add something to that? Yes I think that sums it up.
But again we're seeing a very international growth in our pipe spooling which is relatively new and you couple that with some of the strong domestic opportunities that are emerging strictly in the gulf I think the combination of those 2 are going to drive our pipe spooling business at the kind of margins that we would expect to see.
So we're very excited about that.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned bidding on some ethane crackers in Russia and the U.S.
Are you pursuing EPC opportunities there? And is there any help you can give us in terms of the potential timing of awards? Lasse do you want to talk about that? Well we're pursuing ethane crackers in the U.S.
and we are pursuing those on a lump-sum basis.
Talk about Russia.
Yes and now we come to the Russian market and we are trying to avoid to take the construction lump-sum risk in Russia and concentrate on that E&amp;P part of the projects.
It's still in negotiations Marty.
Your next question is from Jamie Cook with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Just a clarification to -- in your response to Andy's question.
On the nuclear -- just because the Q isn't out yet on Southern and Scana did you say the revenues were comparable to the second quarter? And how should we think about revenue progression in the back -- in the remaining -- I guess the remaining quarter I thought revenues were supposed to continue to improve sequentially.
And then any update you have on timing and potential impact of resolution with Southern and/or Scana? And then my last question Phil I think in the last quarter in the prepared remarks you talked about potentially winning a nice ethane cracker in the U.S Unless I missed it in the prepared remarks can you just give us an update on that? Okay.
Ron why don't you talk about the nukes and energy[ph] and all that.
Sure.
The nuclear projects continued to run about $0.25 billion per quarter.
That's in total for the U.S.
projects.
But in essence we closed the transaction.
They will ramp slowly in -- throughout until '14.
But when you do the math it's really pretty simple.
About 8 years to develop[ph] for the ultimate delivery of the back-end unit and about $8 billion of backlog.
So there is a peak in there but it's not a peak like you would see at a construction site in Cartagena for instance where we peak out at 12 000 or 14 000 people.
The available workspace isn't even big enough.
So I would guess it'll be over $1 billion annual run rate certainly in the middle there but it won't -- I don't think it will get to $2 billion.
But [indiscernible] as we get to...
Research Division</strong> I think Ron that was in line with your -- that was in line with your expectations correct? Yes absolutely.
Research Division</strong> It hasn't slipped at all.
Okay cool Sorry that was my bad.
And then possible resolution you talked about that sort of in the last quarter by year-end.
No we're -- yes we -- and we're still -- we'd still like to do that.
There's nothing magical about the year end except I think all parties feel that we'd like to continue driving towards a settlement.
It's large.
It's complicated.
But I think the bottom line to that and I think as you would hear from Southern is that we believe we all want to settle this at the table as opposed to in the court.
So we're working towards those end.
I'm hopeful that perhaps we can get a resolution by year end.
But we're going to keep driving on the result not necessarily the timing.
Research Division</strong> And then sorry just last Phil the ethane cracker you mentioned that as well.
And the ethane cracker yes we've been -- there's been a couple that we've been tracking that we're hopefully in -- we're pretty confident that one of those crackers are going to be awarded this year.
And hopefully we'll have an announcement out sometime this month.
Your next question is from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> You guys mentioned a couple of lump-sum projects that you're bidding on.
You mentioned Sempra and I think Lasse mentioned an ethane cracker.
So I guess how do you anticipate effectively managing the labor risk on these projects at this point? And then I guess broadly what's the balance of fixed-price versus cost-plus opportunities? How's that developing? Yes.
We still maintain it pretty evenly split corporately between lump-sum and cost-reimbursable work and that seems to be a good split for us.
Many of these jobs we'll bid as a fixed-price.
If the owner has an opportunity to kind of look at that and see if there's opportunities to do more risk-sharing which we fully anticipate on most of the major jobs to reduce the costs and the premiums associated with that.
So that's the basis on which we enter these very large lump-sum projects.
The labor -- the resource capacity is going to be the issue directly around direct labor.
And we've taken the position that our ability to control all the critical aspects of the project are going to be important for our success.
So we are doing the majority of these projects.
We're bidding them on a self-perform basis.
That incorporates training that incorporates recruiting of craft and skilled labor from around the country.
So we're working hard on that right now and we're certainly going to be prepared when we go to the field.
Research Division</strong> So just to clarify Phil when you mention cost-sharing or risk-sharing does that mean that there's still like some labor wage-rate openers on some of these lump-sum projects? Is that the way to understand it? We're certainly capable and willing to fix those prices.
I think when we get in discussion and share the owners data with our data as far as productivity and availability as well as wages we may look at that long-term.
These are longer-term projects.
So we think that's going to be a discussion in the best interest of the project.
So we think that the labor market certainly is different along the Gulf Coast than it used to be because the lack of large capital projects.
So I think we've got some early-mover opportunities on some of these jobs to get some of this defined early and we'll be doing our best efforts with the client to determine the best solution.
And that could be some type of risk-sharing on labor if it looks like that's the right thing for the project.
Research Division</strong> And then you guys mentioned about the improved pace of nuclear module delivery.
Just what's your confidence in the ability to meet all the delivery deadlines this year and then in the first half of next year? Luke do you want to talk about that? Yes.
We're -- our confidence is growing.
We've made a number of changes at Lake Charles since the acquisition.
And in terms of management we've been able to attract several hundred more craft labor.
We've increased the number of fabricating stations significantly.
We're also on a learning curve where some of the early lessons we've learned have been incorporated and as we go.
And this is fairly unique structures we're building we're taking advantage of that.
So our confidence is growing.
We've made some great milestones in the third quarter of shipments.
And so I think it's a concern and a lot of press about it but I think that the course is steady and positive.
We're -- yes we're aligned with both Southern and Scana as far as the pace of these modules.
And again it's improved significantly.
It's not just the number of modules but which modules.
And so we're aligned on the critical delivery schedule and we're driving towards making sure we make our commitments by the end of the year.
Your next question is from Rob Norfleet with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just -- most of my questions have been answered.
I'd just quickly -- I wanted to ask Ron a question.
Obviously you guys noted that you kind of exceeded the high end of the cost synergy estimate that you threw out when you initially announced the Shaw acquisition.
Can you kind of go through what is it you've been able to do in terms of cost containment above and beyond what you originally forecasted? And where do you expect in 2014 to see additional cost reduction? Sure.
I think the -- 2013 was all about the -- consolidating the corporate organizations if not physically then at least for the -- with the process side and also eliminating the duplicative public company costs as quick as possible.
I think we achieved that on the quicker side of that progress.
And that -- those are really the most important actions for 2013.
2014 are really going to be driven by the operating groups as they look at everything from consolidating some of the back-office work that Chip talked to in the second quarter for the Government Solutions group and a variety of facilities that are embedded in the other -- EC&amp;M and Fabrication Services that overlap in some cases and will allow us to do some consolidations.
Those will really fall out of 2014 as that's just the base that those happen as opposed to the corporate side is pretty much wrapped up until we complete the ultimate consolidation by having space here in the woodlands and then the final integration of the systems which will occur in '14 and '15.
Yes.
We'll talk about that Rob when we get into 2014.
Because as Ron said those efficiencies you're not going to see at the SG&amp;A line or corporate line because we're running pretty lean and we're going to always look for savings there.
But in terms of the margin improvements certainly on the operating groups going forward we're going to be focused a lot on that going -- in next year and beyond.
So we got over $50 million this year.
Next year we expect to get at least that much if not more.
That's my expectation anyway.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Secondly on -- you also obviously gave a kind of ladder in terms of revenue opportunities synergies that you saw between you and Shaw.
And I think one of the bigger ones was on the fabrication and maintenance side.
Are you already starting to see that contribute on the EBITDA line? Or how should look at that in 2014? I know the expectations were that was going to be a little more back-end loaded in terms of achieving it.
But how do you still feel about those targets? It's a complicated answer because it's not just as if they're continuing to be independent organizations serving the supplier market.
A lot of the savings are synergies we're going to get as far as integrating them with our backlog with our EPC opportunities.
And those are going to come in increased efficiencies our ability to bid probably better schedules those type of things.
So that won't be as apparent to you I don't think and certainly in terms of when you look at the income statement.
But it certainly is apparent to us.
So those are going to be the kind of savings that I think is really where we're going to make the money in terms of the synergy opportunities.
Independently I think Luke's -- all of Luke's businesses have a great opportunity in terms of the amount of capital investment we're going to see in North America and around the world.
And so we're -- and I think we are -- have seen a lot of opportunity using our global footprint in introducing Fabrication Services in some parts of the world that they may have not been otherwise.
So we're seeing those kind of synergies as well.
It's probably a little too early to really tell you how that's going to play out for next year but we're going to do that before the end of the year and certainly in our outlook for 2014.
But we're very very encouraged by that.
So it's performing extremely well.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the allotted time for questions.
I would like to turn the call back to the leaders for any closing remarks.
Well I don't have any summary remarks except I would like to remind all those folks on the call or listening to us that we hope to see many of you at our December 11 Investor Day in New York.
So that will conclude our call today.
And we certainly thank you for your time and your questions.
Again thank you for your participation in today's call.
This concludes the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Before beginning today's call the Company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the Company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the Company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the Company's press release and the SEC filing.
While forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we report Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron's results for the fourth quarter and full year 2013.
With me today is CB&amp;I's Chief Financial Officer Ron Ballschmiede who'll discuss the Company's overall financial performance.
In order to allow for additional opportunity to take your questions we've shorten the duration of our prepared remarks.
I'll be summarizing the overall results of the Company and our operating groups followed by Ron who will report our financial results for the quarter and full year.
2013 was a very good year for CB&amp;I.
our backlog of business on projects in shops labs and engineering offices performed at record levels.
We maintained our relentless focus on safety capitalized on the continued growth in our markets and achieved record financial results with $11.1 billion in revenue $12.3 billion in new awards backlog of almost $28 billion and earnings per share of $4.91 excluding acquisition related costs.
We attribute that success to our talented workforce and unique business model that delivers a more complete supply chain solution to our customers.
At CB&amp;I safety is our highest priority.
In 2013 we continued to extend our exceptional safety record with more than 146 million hours completed around the world and with a 0.5 lost time incident rate which means we just had one lost time incident for every 3.5 million hours work.
Projects like Ecopetrol's Reficar project in Cartagena Colombia had 60 million work hours Exxon's Papua New Guinea project with almost 20 million work hours and the MOX Savannah River program in South Carolina with over 17.5 million work hours all without a lost time incident.
These projects are representative of our commitment to the belief that zero accidents is achievable.
We continue to focus on the capabilities of our direct hire model with CB&amp;I recruiting hiring training and managing employees in locations around the world.
The combination of our safety record long history of direct hire operations and expertise in personnel management makes CB&amp;I an employer of choice in the industry that will position us well for the increasing demand for resources in North America and elsewhere in the world.
Our new awards during the year are indicative of our global diversity across the markets in the energy infrastructure industry.
They range from the large scale LNG liquefaction terminal petrochemical plants an export propane terminal in the U.S.
Air Quality Control programs for power plants in the U.S.
piping and storage for key LNG liquefaction terminals and ethane crackers a plant services contract for Peru LNG a paraxylene technology contract with GS Caltex as well as numerous strategic petrochemical and refining technology licensing awards around the globe.
Now I'll briefly provide some highlights from our four operating groups.
During the year our Engineering Construction and Maintenance group continued to capitalize on a robust end market in oil and gas with strong bookings for projects in North America in LNG and petrochemical developments as well as expansion work for our existing projects.
As our fourth quarter awards for Freeport LNG and Occidental's ethane cracker demonstrate the integrated supply chain solution we're able to provide gives customers greater confidence and CB&amp;I a competitive advantage.
In the case of both of these projects we provided conceptual design and feed and will now be providing full EPC services.
Recently we announced our cooperation agreement with Chiyoda the partner in LNG opportunities in North America.
We believe that Chiyoda's global experience in LNG and their outstanding reputation complements CB&amp;I's project management execution capabilities and expertise in North America.
Our Engineering Construction and Maintenance power business received Air Quality Control awards and importantly we continue to see potential for future expansion on gas power generation in North America nuclear power in Asia-Pacific the Middle East and Europe and solid fuel power generation in South Asia and South America.
During the quarter we announced our strategic agreement with the China Power Investment Corporation one of the three nuclear power plant owners and operators in China and we expect these opportunities to start gaining traction during this year.
Our plant maintenance business capabilities added a new value-add to our oil and gas business internationally with the contract for the maintenance of Peru LNG and we continue to capitalize on our ability to leverage our position in power services with awards like the nuclear fleet maintenance contract we announced during the year as well as small capital work for traditional customers.
In Government Solutions it continues to be a solid contributor despite significant challenges in the government arena including sequestration and a 16-day government shutdown during the quarter.
We're also seeing key opportunities expected for 2013 first half to 2014 with opportunities we continue to actively pursue.
Looking forward Government Solutions is anticipating moderate growth particularly in environmental remediation landfill gas and energy projects [indiscernible] infrastructure replacement and other environmentally oriented opportunities.
The group has also implemented internal adjustments in its organisational structure which have resulted in improved efficiencies and cost synergies by consolidating their operations.
In addition our joint venture mixed-oxide program at Savannah River better known as MOX continues at reduced spending level but is performing very well with productivity and progress at planned levels and with outstanding quality and safety results.
We're hopeful that the program will be refunded during 5the next budgeting discussions in Washington and we're really pleased with the proactive leadership of the DoE and various congressional supporters of the program.
Technology had another year of strong sales record revenues and earnings and our joint venture with Chevron called CLG exceeded expectations with exceptional technology and catalyst sales.
During the year we commissioned our new manufacturing and research facility in Pasadena Texas added key strategic technologies to our portfolio through acquisitions such as our acquisition of E-Gas solid gasification technology and broadened our offering by signing an agreement with Clariant to develop polypropylene catalysts through various commercialization agreements.
End markets for Technology remained strong with U.S.
shale attracting new petrochemical investments in North America and incremental activity in global refining markets driven by diesel protection resident conversion and demand for cleaner fuels.
During the quarter the Technology group experienced all-time highs in refining and catalyst orders and our engineering centers continued to operate at high utilization rates and we expect these trends to continue through 2014.
Fabrication Services experience healthy demand during 2013.
This operating group's U.S.
end markets remained robust due to shale gas developments and the viability of petrochemical and liquefied natural gas explore projects.
During the quarter Fabrication Services advanced negotiations to secure long-term agreements for pipe spools and storage tanks.
These agreements enhance our ability to market best in class project components to third parties including plate structures pipe spools pipe induction bending and modularization.
Recently we announced a significant long-term agreement with Dow Chemical to supply Fabrication Services for a variety of projects on the Gulf Coast.
We continue to make progress on strengthening a quality-driven safety-conscious work environment at our Lake Charles fabrication shop.
In addition with fabrication modules pipe spools of structural steel for the [indiscernible] and V.C.
Summer nuclear power plants made good progress during the quarter.
Today a total of 220 modules for the first units have been shipped as more of the effort transition to these construction sites.
Our outlook for Fabrication Services is very optimistic.
We feel confident of our capability to meet the demand of future growth through our shops prudent investments in capacity and increases in productivity for not only CB&amp;I projects but the total range of energy CapEx around the world.
Now before I turn the call over to Ron to report the financial details of 2013 I just want to take a moment to thank our employees.
We've just passed the one year mark since the financial close of the Shaw acquisition and as I told you before our employees work extremely hard to ensure that we became one CB&amp;I last February and made the transition virtually seamless.
Their commitment to the integration continued throughout the year as reflected in our strong results and success in building a world-class highly competitive company.
Ron? Thanks Phil and good afternoon everyone.
Let me take you through our financial performance for another strong year and quarter.
In order to focus on the ongoing Company's operating performance during the quarter and year I will discuss our results excluding the acquisition and integration related costs as set forth in more detail in the earnings release.
Revenue for the fourth quarter was $3 billion up $1.5 billion or essentially double that of the fourth quarter of 2012.
The revenue increase reflects significant quarter-over-quarter growth of our legacy business units up $337 million or 22% driven by increased activity on our large projects in the execution of our higher beginning of year backlog.
The balance of the fourth quarter revenue growth of $1.1 billion represents revenue from our acquired operations Full-year revenue totaled $11.1 billion an increase of $5.6 billion over 2012.
Approximately 30% of the revenue increase was generated by our legacy businesses.
We previously announced our 2014 revenue guidance range of $12.6 billion to $13.2 billion an indicative increase of 60% based on the midpoint of our guidance.
This revenue growth reflects the continued high activity and ramp-up of several large projects in our backlog the increase in our year-over-year opening backlog and a full year of revenue from the February 2013 Shaw acquisition.
The 2014 revenue burn is anticipated to be 35% to 40% of our record 2000 year-end backlog of $27.8 billion.
This backlog burn compares to 45% to 50% for legacy CB&amp;I in 2013 and reflects the increasing overall duration of projects in our backlog specifically our major LNG and nuclear projects.
Gross profit for the quarter totaled $339 million versus $198 million in the comparable 2012 quarter.
The increase was driven by the acquisition and higher revenues from our historical CB&amp;I business units.
Each of our operating groups continued to benefit from the solid project execution and performed consistent with our expectations.
The decline in our fourth quarter gross margin to 11.3% from 12.9% in the fourth quarter of 2012 reflects the lower gross profit characteristics of the acquired Shaw business units and the changing relative volume mix of our legacy business units.
Specifically and as we expected more than three-fourths of our legacy quarter over quarter consolidated revenue increase came from our oil and gas business unit which accounted for 63% of our historical consolidated revenue base.
The balance of the gross margin change is attributable to the acquisition which generally delivers an overall lower gross profit percentage than our pre-acquisition metrics.
On a sequential quarter over quarter basis our gross margin improved by 70 basis points over the third quarter of 2013.
Obviously both those quarters included the acquired operations for the full quarter.
I'll come back and discuss the changes in our revenue and operating income by operating group in a moment.
Selling and administrative expenses increased to $99 million from $59 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The acquisition accounted for the vast majority of the dollar increase.
While our integration and consolidation activities are continuing as I indicated in our previous earnings call our day one activities and our actions to date have exceeded the high end of our previously communicated annual cost synergy savings range of $30 million to $50 million.
Accordingly our full-year S&amp;A expense benefited from these savings and our continued operating leverage.
Our S&amp;A expense was 3.3% of revenues for the fourth quarter down 0.6% from 3.9% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Further we expect our full year 2014 S&amp;A expense to approximate the fourth quarter 2013 rate of 3.3% of revenues.
As an important reminder when thinking of stock-based compensation cost GAAP requires certain stock-based compensation to retiree eligible participants to be expensed in the quarter in which the awards are made.
CB&amp;I's long-term incentive compensation awards are made in the first quarter.
Consequently for the aforementioned accounting results we had approximately 60% of our full-year stock-based compensation expense being recorded in the first quarter predominantly within S&amp;A.
In terms of EPS the first quarter of 2014 stock-based compensation expense is expected to incrementally exceed the related expense for each of the second and third and fourth quarters of 2014 by approximately $0.18 per share per quarter.
That gives us an important metric to think about as you look at our quarterly flow of income for our business.
Intangible amortization totaled $18.4 million in the fourth quarter and $61 million for the full year.
Our full year 2014 intangible amortization is expected to be approximately $70 million.
Acquisition and integration related costs for the fourth quarter of 2013 were primarily related to facility consolidation and totaled $19.3 million or $0.11 per share.
The acquisition and integration costs together with pre-closing and one-time first quarter financing costs totaled $106.3 million for the year or $0.68 per share.
Finally fourth quarter adjusted income from operations was $230 million or 7.7% of revenues compared to $145 million or 9.4% of revenues in the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the full year of 2013 adjusted income from operations totaled a record $780 million or 7% of revenues up from $314 million or 67% up over 2012.
During the fourth quarter of 2013 we recognized incremental income tax benefits relating to the recognition of the remaining U.K.
NOL primarily driven from the project losses of 2007 and 2008 and the recognition of additional U.S.
foreign tax credits.
With regards to the U.K.
NOLs our U.K.
earnings from 2009 forward have been very strong and in the fourth quarter of 2013 we utilized the final balance of approximately $75 million NOL recorded in 2008.
Consequently the fourth quarter and full year tax provision benefited by a total of $77.8 million or $0.72 per share.
Our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter and year excluding these items were 27% and 28% respectively.
Our effective tax rate benefited from a more favorable mix of geographic income and other higher global tax credits.
We expect our full-year 2014 effective tax rate to be approximately 32%.
Our net income attributable to non-controlling interest for the quarter totaled $20 million an increase of $13 million over 2012.
The increase primarily reflects the increasing activity of our Gorgon MEI and Papua New Guinea gas processing project and the impact of the acquisition.
The summation of all that resulted in the fourth quarter adjusted net income of $208.9 million or adjusted earnings per share of $1.91.
For the full-year adjusted net income was $527.4 million or adjusted earnings per share of $4.91.
Both the quarter and the year reflect the highest earnings in our Company's history.
After including the acquisition and integration related costs of $0.11 per share for the fourth quarter and $0.68 for the full year GAAP earnings were $1.80 and $4.23 per diluted share respectively.
As we previously communicated our adjusted EPS guidance for 2014 was $4.80 to $5.65.
The adjusted EPS guidance excludes the integration related costs anticipated to be $15 million to $25 million or $0.10 to $0.15 per share.
Adjusted EBITDA totaled $279 million or 9.3% of revenues for the fourth quarter of 2013 company to $160 million or 10.4% of revenues compared to 2012 quarter – sorry 2013 2013 of $279 million compared to 2012 of $160 million.
Adjusted EBITDA for the full-year totaled $960 million for 8.7% of revenues.
All of the above are also high watermarks by a significant margin.
Now let me take you through each operating group's fourth quarter results.
Each of our operating group's 2013 results were consistent with or in some cases exceeded our expected annual range of operating results which we have previously discussed.
Specifically our annual performance expectations are operating income in the range of 4% to 7% for EC&amp;M 8% to 11% for Fabrication Services and 3% to 6% for Government Solutions.
Finally Technology's 2013 operating income exceeded our expectations and totaled $157 million.
Our new awards for the fourth quarter totaled $5.3 billion and $12.3 billion for the year representing a book-to-burn ratio of [176 million] (ph) for the quarter and 110% for 2003.
Our major fourth quarter new awards included $2.5 billion for our share of the Freeport LNG project and $1 billion for the Occidental ethylene project.
The balance of new awards of approximately $1.8 billion reflects the important underpinning work at normal project growth which is spread nicely between our operating groups and project types around the world.
Our December 31 2013 backlog totaled $27.8 billion up from $10.9 billion at the beginning of the year.
This increase includes acquired backlog of approximately $16.8 billion.
Our non-US dollar-denominated backlog decreased by approximately $800 million in 2013 due to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar primarily against Australia Colombia and Canadian currencies.
While these currency fluctuations can cause variations in our reported backlog the fluctuations have not resulted in significant variations in our operating results.
EC&amp;M fourth quarter revenue totaled $1.9 billion an increase of $918 million over the fourth quarter of 2012.
Approximately 72% or $663 million of that increase was attributable to the acquisition.
The balance of the revenue growth was the organic growth of our oil and gas operations which increased its revenues 26% up to $1.2 billion.
The most significant driver of this organic revenue increase was related to increasing activities on our LNG and gas processing work in the Asia-Pacific area.
Finally with our strong backlog position and significant awards booked in late 2013 we expect our 2014 first-quarter revenues to be generally consistent with 2013 fourth quarter and subsequent quarter revenues increasing sequentially throughout 2014.
Income from operations totaled $110 million or 5.8% of revenues in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to $60 million or 6.2% in 2012.
Factors contributing to the change in the quarter's operating income include the impact of the acquired power revenue and organic revenue growth discussed earlier.
With respect to Fabrication Services fourth-quarter 2013 revenue was $698 million an increase of $273 million over 2012.
Revenue for the acquired fabrication and manufacturing operations totaled $173 million with operating income of $15 million.
Steel Plate Structures revenue increased $100 million or 24% to $525 million on higher activity for our LNG tank projects in Asia-Pacific region and storage tank work in North America partially offset by the completion of various projects in the Middle East.
Operating income totaled $76 million or 10.8% of revenues compared to $43 million or 10.2% of revenues in 2012.
Fabrication and manufacturing operating margin was 8.8% of revenues and Steel Plate Structures margin were 11.5% reflecting changes in the mix of the projects and processes during the quarter.
Technology reported revenue of $130 million compared to $148 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The decrease in revenue reflects the lower volume of e-transfer revenue driven by normal timing considerations offset somewhat by stronger licensing and catalyst revenue.
Fourth-quarter operating income totaled $40 million benefiting from the timing of the delivery of licensing and catalyst activities and strong refining related equity earnings.
Finally Government Solutions reported revenue of $289 million and operating income of $4 million.
The quarter and year results were negatively impacted by the sequestration work stoppages and the ongoing uncertainties with respect to government spending and prioritization.
Now a few comments on our balance sheet and cash flow.
Our balance sheet and liquidity remained strong.
At the end of December our shareholders' equity exceeded $2.5 billion our cash balance was $421 million and cash and other revolving borrowings was $306 million an improvement from $29 million from March 31 2013 the first quarter subsequent to the Shaw acquisition.
We continue to enjoy significant support from the credit markets to support our new awards growth and strategic opportunities.
We finalized our new $1.35 billion revolving credit facility in the fourth quarter.
This revolver replaces our previous $1.1 billion facility which was due to expire in mid 2014.
The new facility has a five-year term expiring in 2018 and brings our total revolving facility capacity to $2 billion.
The facilities will continue to be used primarily for project related letters of credit that support the significant opportunities in front of us.
During the year we invested $90 million in capital expenditures invested $61 million in acquisition for the continued expansion of Technology's portfolio serviced $75 million of our long-term debt and paid $21 million of common stock dividends.
Last week our Board approved our first quarter cash dividend of $0.07 per share compared to our quarterly $0.05 per share dividend in 2013.
In addition in the fourth quarter we repurchased 124 000 shares of common stock for $10 million.
We expect our 2014 CapEx to be in the $175 million range.
The increase over 2013 reflects the completion of our additional facility in the Woodlands enabling us to complete our administrative integration and consolidation activity and investments to the capital related – in project related capital and facilities necessary to execute our increased backlog and prospects for 2014 and beyond.
Our investment and contract capital reflecting the combined balances of receivables inventory contracts in process and accounts payable stands at a negative $1.6 billion at the end of the year compared to negative $325 million at the beginning of the year the increase primarily reflecting the impact of the acquisition.
In closing our significant backlog and prospects consistent project execution and strong financial position provides us with the necessary financial flexibility to deliver our projects and other services and take advantage of the global energy infrastructure market.
We remain well-positioned for opportunities to grow our Company and continue to provide strong returns to our shareholders.
Phil? Thanks Ron.
Now we'll take your questions.
Operator can you open the line for questions please? (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
Nice quarter Phil.
So at your Analyst Day you said that you expected backlog to grow in 2014 so as we sit here after the first two months of 2014 can you talk about your conviction in backlog growth this year and then can you talk about whether there was some project [indiscernible] in 4Q because I remember you saying you could have made the bottom of your [indiscernible] in 2013 without Freeport and you made it at 12.3 I know you mentioned government flipping a little bit but are the [indiscernible] of contract LNG and gas processing jobs that you still expect here in the first half of the year? That's correct Andy.
We did have some slippage into 2014.
When we look out in front of us and that happens many years we look at a fairly smooth and stable prospect growth but as we all know as we get closer to these new jobs they tend to move to right.
But we thought the result for 2013 was very strong.
When you look at going into next year we certainly have some large projects.
We expect to – we survey our screen for the first half of the year and we'll be anticipating those in the first and second quarter.
But most of that is concentrated in North America new awards but we are seeing some interesting activity in other parts of the world.
There is some activity continuing in LNG in Australia as well as some interesting work that is being developed in the Middle East.
So we think it's going to be a very active year as we see more CapEx being released particularly in the energy sectors around the world.
So we're quite optimistic.
Do you still feel pretty good about backlog growth if I had to pin you down? Yes you can pin me down.
Let's say that in our funnel that we've talked about before we looked at a nice $70 billion to $100 billion worth of work out there that's identified prospects that could under certain circumstances be awarded this year.
If you assume that our win rate and our hit rate has been running anywhere from 45% to sometimes in some markets 50% and then you factor that against the competition you can get down to – our range last year was certainly [indiscernible] combined with that we think that probably our burn rate for this year will probably be in the 35% to 40%.
So I think you can do the math pretty quickly to see that that should lead us to certainly incremental backlog growth.
Okay that's great.
So let me try and pin down Dan as I usually do also on… Dan's not here I'm sorry to disappoint you.
You'll just have to put up with Ron and I.
So let me pin down Ron and Phil then so Technology has been a double-digit grower essentially since the recession and you have continued to grow the business both by buying more technology and just growing the business organically.
So as we look forward into 2014 and beyond why can't the business continue to grow double-digit or at least have some pretty good growth to it here in 2014 and beyond? I think just from steady-state if you look at just the demand for the technologies and the energy markets around the world Technology has got a tremendous opportunity to continue to grow in their existing businesses by double digits each year.
But we think there is probably more opportunity to look at continuing investment to link other technologies to improve our catalyst position which we think could be somewhat aggressive and think that that could exceed what our normal expectation would be for the Technology business.
So when we look for the best return on our capital for the shareholders capital to future years we certainly think that Technology is the leading candidate for that as well as Fabrication Services because we can expand our capacity significantly and get better leverage out of that capital on new storage around the world.
So those would be the two areas outside of repurchase of stock and dividend that we would look at for our capital allocation.
Ron can I just ask you to clarify something quickly like around free cash flow in 2014 should you start to see the benefit from the nuclear projects starting bleeding cash I guess if you may and start to actually hit milestone there so you should see better free cash flow in 2014 if there's any color there it would be great? Sure we certainly expect some improvement in 2014 but just from a macro standpoint on the nuclear projects and this is not bad.
We still have give or take $1 billion of net advances on those projects and of course like all advances they get worked off over time and if you just did the simple math we have four plus years of having growing those.
So you could probably do that math and say okay we're going to unwind those advances on that kind of rate in the next many years.
However the positive element that is occurring is these large projects in the United States of course it's been a part of those projects and a part of the world but we are more willing to take a bigger portion of those projects on a classic lump-sum basis and any time you do that you start getting advances and down-payments and milestone billings et cetera.
So I think we can start seeing that in 2014 from the awards we have already talked about and some of the awards that are still to come.
So I think the balance of those will be substantially increased but just mathematically the other ones will come down a little bit.
Okay that's helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Ron just further the comments on capital spending how debt repayment and other acquisition potential in 2014 how that may flow through the business? Sure.
I think the side of opportunities is just that we will keep our eyes out for opportunities to do some things that Phil just talked about whether they are narrow focused extension of plant facilities to take advantage of fabrication opportunities or if there are some opportunities come up to extend our Technology portfolio.
That's sort of the number one thing.
We don't really have a number on that other than our first goal is to remain flexible and with plenty of dry powder to take advantage of these opportunities when they arise.
We have about $125 million of normally scheduled debt for 2014 which of course have some opportunities to go beyond that but we continue to look at shares repurchases as we go through the year and keep an eye on how our cash flow occurs how our orders are coming in and of course the opportunities to grow our business on the organic side.
So I think we'll continue that three-legged stool that we've been talking about for really for several years; first opportunity growth in the business; second our capital structure combination of paying down our long-term debt.
I'll put an insert in there.
We have very nicely priced long-term debt.
So I wouldn't – while we'll make some incremental progress beyond perhaps the scheduled thing I wouldn't look for a lot of it it's just a cross-capital issue that is pretty hard to resist keeping it for as long as we can.
Understood Ron.
Phil intrigued about some of your comments about international opportunities I mean we really see a real big focus on North American and rightly so but where do you see from the tank side and from the ECM side where we could see some good hits is it more just a run rate type projects or is it couple of decent opportunities out there that might hit the books in 2014? I think there are some decent opportunities.
When you look at just the overlay in our Fabrication Services and when we take what we acquired from Shaw and include it with our global models there's been some tremendous opportunities and that's on all capital expenditures that we are seeing in Asia-Pacific.
So that's going to be in general just a great opportunity from Fabrication Services and also in the Middle East.
I think there's an interesting job that we just announced with KNPC job going national in the Middle East.
I mean those are interesting jobs that a couple of years ago we had discussed having little opportunity because of the Korean influence but we're seeing that the Koreans aren't necessarily as aggressive in their pricing in some of the new work.
I think we talked about it a few years ago that – or I guess continuously about is that sustainable in terms of pricing there and I think we're starting to see that perhaps there is some reversal in that trend where the jobs are becoming more competitive for western contractors.
So I think that's an area to watch.
We continue to hope that the Chinese will be aggressive not only on their nuclear power plants because they talked about six more reactors using AP1000 type technology and also on regasification terminals that we started many years ago.
So I think it's those kinds of opportunities that we look at.
And we see some continuing offshore work in our London office and certainly in our Singapore office.
So all the offices are very full with those kind of businesses as well.
So very diversified outlook for the year.
What you see though on your screen though is that U.S.
dominates North America dominates simply because of the petrochemical facilities gasoline facilities the export facilities which we are going to see this year.
So that's probably going to grab almost everyone's attention but we are very pleased with what we see happening in the rest of the world as well.
Excellent Phil.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
So couple of questions.
One your margin performance in the quarter was fairly impressive and some of your peers were talking about that inflection point where they really expect margins to start to improve in the back half of the year so can you talk about any components in your business where you are feeling a little better about the margin side particularly given the strength that you saw in EC&amp;M and on the Fabrication Services side? The second question I have I guess relates to capacity Phil with some of the success you've had in winning awards so far I mean I think there's a view that you guys probably get Cameron as well you just got Freeport so how you are thinking about capacity? And then last Ron just on the free cash flow I know Andy asked the question and there were puts and takes but in general this year you expect free cash flow to be more comparable to your net income number if you could just because I felt like I don't know that we've really got a financer? Okay I'll tell you first what we think about free cash flow Ron.
We think about it every day.
[indiscernible] margins at the inflation point it's a matter obviously of mix.
We might have a probably stronger mix and even as we look at this year with potentially some new awards in those markets that you mentioned.
Yes in fact the margins could improve.
We always have that opportunity for premiums and additional margins relative to fixed price work.
We are also seeing you got to remember that outside of our just our engineering and construction work the kind of margins that we're seeing improving all along the Fabrication Services line and again that touches every capital project throughout North America and elsewhere in the world and we're very pleased with seeing the margin improvements on that business.
So we will be more in tune now that business is performing as the year progresses but we are quite encouraged by what we see there.
So I think between the two as well as our traditional work and our legacy work in Steel Plate Structures I think you could see some.
I don't think inherently though the market will drive higher margins.
I don't think reimbursement work necessarily will pay more than what you've traditionally seen on the operating income line but I think it depends on the company's mix of projects and geography that's going to drive that but I don't think inherently the additional work is going to drive margins much higher than what you've seen in the past.
It just performs against your mix of projects.
Capacity again I think clearly with our joint venture partners with [indiscernible] and Freeport we feel very comfortable about the capacity to handle that work.
We have also included Chiyoda who are doing some subcontracting engineering work for us out of the Philippines.
So we have got a good mix of work for our good capacity.
For the Freeport work we are hopeful about Sempra and if that were to take place we are going to do a lot of that operations out of our [indiscernible] office again with a joint venture with Chiyoda.
So from an engineering standpoint we have the capability to move engineering virtually anywhere around the world.
Engineering specifically for LNG is best executed either in Houston Oklahoma or London.
So we have an opportunity to certainly use our global capacity between our engineering and joint venture partner.
When you look at construction we've been working hard on developing training programs and partnerships with various states particularly along the Gulf Coast.
We have all of the capital work regardless of who has the prime contract.
We see a delta of about 50 000 craft employees that are going to be needed to be added to additional craft population along the Gulf Coast.
So that's a challenge for all companies and one that I think most companies are taking head on certainly through training and plans to do more direct hire for these projects which is certainly our plan as well.
So capacity I think from an engineering standpoint and shop standpoint I think we certainly have the capacity for the work that we see in front of us.
We are working hard on making sure we also have the craft workers and have certainly built that into our planning for this year.
Ron about the cash flow? Sure.
I think over a cycle we would continue to tell you that operating income is pretty good surrogate for what we would expect our cash flow to be.
It's probably too little – there are some unique pieces of that certainly in 2014 and the future.
I mentioned the nuclear advances so you do that easy math it's $200 million to $300 million of the nuclear side being essentially worked off per year for the next four or five as we finish those projects.
Like I said while that might be due to the negative we have the money essentially on our balance sheet somewhere at this point in time.
I think the other element of it is we won't give guidance on it it is the most difficult to predict and it has to do with the timing of our client paying us in some cases it's not unusual the $800 million check three days earlier or three days late and that drives our numbers quite a bit.
So our guidance my suggestion would be look at operating income adjusted for the nuclear side we have a more CapEx spent this year than last about $70 million to $85 million is our plan incremental but beyond that I would expect the cash flows to settle to operating income come off those two or three things and that would probably be a best number to model at this point in time.
The next question comes from the line of Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Can you gentlemen update us on chemical pipeline when do you expect final investment decisions on – I believe you're bidding on one ethylene project and can you just update us are there any propylene projects that you are evaluating as well? All of those are in the mix.
When you look at our prospects going into next year for end markets for example I think about 44% of our prospects are probably in the LNG maybe 16% combined between LNG export and related projects and 19% or so of petrochemical projects.
So certainly without getting into discrete numbers of how many we think there's certainly several that or at least two or three that will be awarded this next year but we are very encouraged by the diversity of the work and the strength of these North American market and we think that's going to continue to get traction.
And in Australia you've been very successful with MEI work.
On the last call you spoke about $2 billion of essential opportunities I think a part of that was awarded on [indiscernible] can you just give us an update on how much work you're looking forward in Australia LNG in your prospects? We are going to be there for a long time working on MEI.
We're still on new side of the progress on Gorgon got a lot of growth left to work off of that job.
There's a couple of other prospective jobs out there which we are hopeful that we'll have similar type maybe not the scale but certainly type of awards reimbursable type projects.
So we've been very successful on demonstrating our capabilities with one of the primary mechanical electrical contractors in Australia which is kind of unique in our business.
We don't tend to do that elsewhere but certainly Australia we've had great success and we think it's going to add to our new awards probably in the first half of the year.
And in China really interesting opportunity you have there in nuclear can you just give us an update on when that could potentially turn into business for you what are the discussions like with customers there? I'll start the discussion by just saying remember it's China.
So we think there's tranches there or actually three.
Our Technology business tends to be extremely strong in China.
We're seeing a lot of interest in petrochemicals and hydro-processing we're finding work on petrochemicals across-the-board.
So that's a very strong market.
As far as the boost on the ground type work our Steel Plate Structures is busy developing other regasification projects primarily on the tank side working with CNOOC and others.
When we started on that program a number of years ago the Chinese were predicting 14 at least regasification projects build up and down the coast I think there's probably been a third of those build so far.
So we've got still some headroom on that.
The nuclear work is particularly very kind of interesting.
They purchased a tremendous amount of technology transfer from Westinghouse to develop their own nuclear fleet in China.
We have been very successful in continuing our relationship with the utilities in China CPI being one of them but the other utilities in China as well for the development of that and they are probably on a pace to be more aggressive with the development of their program than elsewhere in the world.
So they've been talking six new reactors throughout China.
So we think that program will get started again.
Even in the best of development cycles around the world those projects are anywhere from 6 to 11 years in cycle time.
So it's a long-term program but one that we feel on the horizon it looks very interesting to us.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
On the nuclear projects in the U.S.
to what extent are you starting to pick up some speed and be efficiencies as you go along there and if you are how might that affect the way the earlier cost disputes are going to be resolved and then on that point can you give us an update on kind of when you expect to have some settlement there? There are actually two different issues there.
One is related to – the dispute actually is based on past issues in terms of additional scope and additional engineering required for the safety and reliability of the plants driven by various regulatory requirements so that's one issue.
But that doesn't stop us or has anything to do with progress on the existing work.
We're pretty pleased and probably once we get comments from licensees to confirm this but we've picked up the pace significantly in our Lake Charles and other plants we've sub-contracted some of the fabrication or modularization work outside of Lake Charles and that program is proceeding very well.
We're busy erecting the work over on the sides and more and more of this work is moving to the side.
So I think all concerned including the licensees on both projects as well as Westinghouse and our Company are very encouraged by the progress being made.
And again let me just say that everything that's being done additionally to that project points to the safety and reliability of these projects and we are all on the same page wanting the same thing about having the safest and most reliable nuclear projects anywhere in the world.
So we're all working towards an end in a very very stringent regulatory environment.
So we're pretty encouraged by the way it's going.
And in terms of timing of any settlement on the initial cost over issues? It's a little more complicated.
The best thing I can say about that is that the discussions are on the table.
Westinghouse is the major player in that so probably it will be more appropriate for them to comment on the actual status of the discussions but the discussion today is between the parties and not before a judge.
So that's very good and I think the discussions will continue.
The timing I really don't have an answer for you on that.
Okay and if I could just ask you about the Government segment how quickly can that business recover from the shutdown earlier in the quarter from both revenue and new award perspective and can you get rate back up to the level you had in Q2 and Q3 of 2013? I think we're going to see it fairly flat going into the next year and we'll just have to see how the activity goes.
It was a big impact.
It did disrupt the pipeline of new work.
Some of this would be decrease in funding level of MOX was certainly a contributor to that.
Still we were able to acquire $1 billion worth of new work this past year.
The margins are reasonable when you look at that most of its engineering construction work and fairly derisked in terms of the contract but we don't see any tremendous growth in that business at least for 2014.
We'll just have to see what the government's response to that funding levels are for 2015 and beyond.
Is that flat with the 2013 overall level? Pretty much.
I would probably look at that business as fairly flat going into 2014.
The next question is from the line of Rob Norfleet with BB&amp;T Capital.
Congratulations on a great year.
Most of my questions have been answered I have one or two.
Ron I want to ask you on the non-controlling interest.
Clearly we have a number of projects that are currently ramping there on the JV structure and we have a number of projects that we have recently won and are bidding there on the JV structure so how should we look at modeling that number throughout the course of 2014 as obviously it increased sequentially each quarter in 2013? Sure.
I think the good news is that the projects in the United States are generally 50-50 projects in other words 50% us and 50% our partner and structured in a way that will allow us to do we call it proportionate consolidation.
So by example in the case of Freeport about $2.5 billion is our backlog our new award in our backlog we will report that as regular revenue and regular gross profit for our proportionate 50% share of the $5 billion.
Others in United States are similarly structured.
So right now we don't have any big inputs to the type of contracts or the percentage of ownership contracts that you'll see that already exist and are generating the non-controlling interest that we saw in 2013.
Having said that our largest – we'll be wrapping up on the Papua New Guinea job here shortly a great project for us both safety and performance-wise but we will be continuing to ramp up the Gorgon MEI work.
So I would expect some growth out of that again end of the year right at it's under $650 million and I guess I would expect 10% to 15% growth on that.
CLG? On the CLG on the equity side and they just continued the equity earning side the third choice of all these contracting methods of ownership that we do and right now they continue to have just a fabulous work in the refining world and we would continue to look at that being an increased some growth over 2013 which by itself was remarkable over 2012.
Okay great that was helpful.
And then lastly you all mentioned at your Analyst Day in the Fab Services business that you typically have capacity around 65% that enables you to kind of flex up during periods of high volume.
Currently we are seeing the volume pick up.
So I guess my question is as we see that capacity ramping do you get operating leverage in that business meaning should we see some additional incremental margin expansion in Fab Services as capacity gets higher? Yes absolutely Rob that would be our plan.
We get tremendous leverage out of our capital in those projects and certainly had a capacity and leverage from that.
We have the ability to transfer those orders in a variety of geographic places that makes sense and some low cost solutions around some of our Fabrication Services particularly in our Mexico shop.
So we're seeing great leverage in that and as we look to expand capacity we now have capital required to expand capacity or even double capacity is fairly nominal compared to other ways that's been in our mind considering the kind of return we can get on that.
So we're looking at that as a real opportunity that would improve our margins going into next year.
That certainly is one of the items that causes our CapEx to go up there relatively modest per facility but there's lots of places around the world that we can easily increase capacity as we look forward to orders that are still or opportunities that are still in front of us.
So we are going to be ready and have the capacity ready to take advantage of fairly good sized opportunity list.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
Nice quarter.
Just a couple of quick questions just more clarity just on the backlog balance so just trying to do the basic math and I think you kind of pointed to this but it wasn't exactly clear if you just take the Q3 ending backlog you add the orders subtract out the revenue you get about $1 billion less in backlog balance than you reported was that all – I mean you said FX was a headwind but were there other change orders or other things that would explain that differential? It was primarily currency.
So it is $800 million for the full-year.
I don't have the fourth-quarter number right in front of me but there were significant movements in the fourth quarter currency and moving it by high hundreds of millions would not be a surprise.
We didn't had any cancellations out of backlog of any magnitude at all.
I see.
And just kind of on the savings you outperformed your initial estimate with the integration savings between you and Shaw I think at the Analyst Day you were talking about $50 million of saves in 2014 as well maybe you could just reiterate whether that's your view and maybe you could just give a little more flavor where you see that coming from? I think certainly we considered that in our guidance and we expect that we can achieve that at least for 2014.
When we look at the whole capital savings program over we look at a three year horizon.
So we expect over the three years to certainly be well in excess of $100 million we'll get out of cost synergies from the acquisition.
When you think about it the year one was sort of the year of corporate consolidation years two and beyond are continuing to look at our footprints on each of our operating groups and be more efficient in the way we do things.
And just last one to Phil I know you kind of discussed this and there is only so much you could say just on the discussions with southern [indiscernible] in the previous I guess disagreements on cost I mean I think the narrative before was you feel very confident about your contracting structure that gives you protection that were clearly written [indiscernible] I mean is it turning out not to be that I guess straightforward or simple economy? My hesitancy has nothing to do with the change in our position on that particular aspect.
Actually part of that original dispute has been sales and we've already incorporated in our numbers as far as the CB&amp;I specific portion work.
There is a large chunk in there that's related to Westinghouse them getting paid then we getting paid and we're confident that that will fall within the range where we will certainly satisfy all of our obligations.
But the lead of those discussions are not with CB&amp;I.
So I'm kind of hesitant to talk about the qualitative aspects of that negotiation.
But we are very encouraged that the dialog is very good and very open between all the parties and the fact that it's going to be handled I believe at the table rather than a court of law is good for everyone concerned.
So that's the optimism I speak of but it's probably inappropriate for me to get too discrete on the qualitative aspects of the timing of that considering that we're not in the lead of those discussions.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you guys.
We have time for one last question.
Your last question comes from the line of Will Gabrielski with Stephens.
Nice quarter and nice finish to the year.
Can you walk through the puts and takes that you see on margin in the quarter just because you don't have the K yet and I'm wondering if anything was significant that you want to call out in either direction? Of the margin specifically? Yes the ECM 5.8% margin.
I think power would be pretty consistent with what it's been up a little bit for the quarter but the oil and gas side saw some uptick.
Some of that is simply because we're coming to the end on the cost reimbursable at least a couple of them or certainly Papua New Guinea work and that work is being replaced by other work around the globe some of which is lump-sum that has higher profit characteristics with of course higher risk profile.
So I think you're just starting to see a little bit of that.
And then don't get linear on me.
I think it also has a lot to do with particular jobs that it worked on in the year and [were removed] (ph).
So we're happy with the movement we don't continue to see them be moved towards the upper end frankly the upper 50% of that range I talked about a 4 to 7 and if we see that moving any faster or slower as we book these new awards and start burning them in 2014 and beyond we'll move those rates but it but for now that board is 7 actually all of the percent we've historically talked about are still valid albeit they were hitting us during the top end of a couple of the operating groups by net performance.
Okay.
And then what was the nuclear revenue in the quarter and how you're expecting that to ramp in 2014 versus what you said previously [indiscernible] updates to CapEx comparisons from your customers? We continue to see about the same spend as second third and fourth quarters.
So for the full year just under $1 billion of revenue and about between $9 billion and $10 billion to spend till we're done in late 2019 2020.
Okay and then lastly you guys are winning a lot of work in U.S.
North America and that's not the case for everybody else out there so the question is as you think about these markets tightening up in the lump sum risk of that you have taken on here you are a lump sum contractor I think that's your course so that should be an advantage but how do you think about mitigating risks early and are there – the ramp right now around getting permitting on these jobs and getting these jobs into the construction phase and especially in the U.S.
specifically when will we start to see that accelerate and what impact does that have on your confidence on getting labor and making sure you make money on this work? First on the risk of the projects you're right fixed-price large projects they are certainly one of our competencies but I just have to remind you that most of these major projects have been on some kind of hybrid negotiated basis once that you go through the feed and you qualify and again the discussions with the owners they usually narrow that list down it's not to one company probably two we've seen that.
So by the time we get to the point with the contract to sign there is a pretty high confidence level that we're going to be able to mitigate and there's no materials unfunded viability on these projects.
Also the joint ventured that we have developed I think is a huge mitigation factor.
We've got quality experienced joint venture partners on virtually everything we're doing.
So we think that's going to be a tremendous help in terms of making sure that we stay on schedule and budget.
We've got a philosophy of self performed direct hire to control more aspects of our work and by the business that we have acquired in terms of pipe fabrication and certainly vessels and Steel Plate Structures that we already had we certainly expand that ability to provide for I termed earlier as just a bundling all of our services together a real supply-chain type of approach to these projects.
So I think all that plays into our confidence level in terms of mitigating our risk.
As part of the permitting goes for example we are very pleased that it was announced that Sempra received its DoE permitting.
I think there's been a very – I'm also relaxed and there's certainly a better pace on the permitting for all the projects that we've seen in front of us.
We don't necessarily see permitting as an extraordinary impact on the projects although we probably see that jobs like Freeport probably won't start getting some real traction under midyear.
So you won't see that develop much in terms of revenues until the midyear and Sempra is picking up some traction in terms of its permitting and start.
So if we're successful in being awarded that contract we would see that as ramping up pretty quickly.
So those are the two that I think we have been watching very carefully as far as any potential delays.
The other LNG exports that are in the queue I think gives us probably a handful of those that would probably start seeing perhaps this year getting some approvals and of course you have got some international work like Mozambique and others which aren't subject to those approvals but certainly are very large projects and it will take some time to get through development cycle.
Okay I really appreciate it and nice quarter.
We have reached the allotted time for questions.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Asherman for closing remarks.
Thank you.
So in closing I'd just remind everybody that 2013 marks 125 years since the creation of our Company.
Generations of CB&amp;I employees have achieved many milestones.
We witnessed periods of exceptional success and faced great challenges and experiences that are part of our Company legacy and that certainly gives us the confidence to be optimistic about our future growth and the ability to maintain our focus on always delivering long-term returns to our shareholders.
I want to thank all of you for your attention this afternoon and with that that will conclude our call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the CB&amp;I first quarter earnings conference call.
[Operator instructions.] Before beginning today's call the company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company's press release and the SEC filing.
While forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we report Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron’s results for the first quarter of 2014.
With me today is CB&amp;I’s chief financial officer Ron Ballschmiede.
First I’ll provide a brief summary of the overall performance of the company followed by Ron who will discuss our financial results for the quarter.
In the first quarter new awards totaled $5.8 billion.
Over the past two quarters CB&amp;I has booked over $11 billion in awards resulting in a backlog of $30.7 billion as of March 31.
During the quarter we generated nearly $3 billion in revenue and earnings per share of $0.87 excluding integration related costs.
Earnings for the period also include a disproportionate share of the stock compensation expenses expected for the year of $43 million or $0.27 per diluted share incurred in this quarter.
These adjustments were considered in our guidance for the year and we remain confident in our ability to deliver revenue and earnings growth consistent with our expectations for 2014.
During the quarter we continued our goal of zero injuries.
This first quarter was more than 40 million work hours performed since January 1.
We recorded a lost time incident rate of 0.03 one of the best safety records in our industry the oil and gas industry and we remain in the top tier when benchmarked against companies indexed by the Construction Industry Institute.
Our approach to safety emphasizes proactive management by focus of leading indicators early identification of risks and the development of desired behaviors in order to prevent safety incidents.
And it works.
It is this safety record along with our history of self-performed direct hire execution that makes CB&amp;I an employer of choice in the industry and continues to provide us access to the resources needed to hire and retain skilled workers.
We’re particularly focused on our direct hire model for recruiting hiring training and managing craft labor for our LNG export and petrochemical projects along the Gulf Coast as well as the anticipated demand for shop workers technicians and engineers.
In addition to this self-performed capability a key mitigation factor in the demand for resources is our flexibility to collaborate with other firms to strengthen our competitive position such as our joint venture for projects with Zachry Construction on Freeport LNG and Chiyoda Corporation for virtually all of the LNG developments in North America as well as Mozambique our joint developments such as our agreement with Clariant for catalysts our equity investments for technology development such as Chevron Lummus Global and our consortium with Westinghouse for the nuclear projects in the U.S.
We’re confident that our ability to effectively collaborate with expert partners to maximize our competitive positioning and in adjacent markets or geographies or better develop new products and technologies will keep CB&amp;I a pace leader in the industry.
Now let’s review some of the highlights from our operating groups.
Our engineering construction and maintenance group had a very strong quarter.
The oil and gas business and our EC&amp;M group received major awards such as a $6 billion engineering procurement construction of an export terminal for Sempra’s Cameron LNG a joint venture with Chiyoda as well as a $625 million U.S.
mechanical electrical contract with Bechtel for Chevron’s Wheatstone LNG in Australia.
In addition to LNG awards this quarter we received a number of awards that highlight the diversity in our company to provide a wide range of services and expertise to our customers such as Orpic’s Liwa Plastics Project involving FEED work and ethylene technology.
We were also awarded the construction of a fertilizer complex for CF Industries by our plant services organization.
Other notable awards in oil and gas include the engineering and procurement of desulfurization units for Kuwait National Petroleum Company’s clean fuels projects at the Mina Abdullah Refinery and we continue pursuing refining opportunities in the Middle East Russia and Europe with limited activity in the United States where most of the capex is related to stricter sulfur limits and retrofitting to refine lighter feed stocks and shale production.
In power we are pleased to report that we recently set an 1 100 ton five story module into the unit three nuclear island at the Vogtle project marking a major milestone for the project and we expect the same milestone at Scana shortly as both projects continue to ramp construction.
We also won new awards for nuclear facility modifications in the United States and we continue to explore future growth for nuclear newbuilds in a variety of locations with the earliest opportunity potentially in China.
For the near term we have potential EPC projects for gas-fired combined cycle power plants which we hope to be awarded by the third quarter.
Now turning to environment solutions as you may have noticed reading the footnotes in the press release we renamed that operating group which was formerly known as government solutions.
We think this name change is a more accurate description of the majority of our scope and backlog and signals our emphasis going forward.
We’ve also reassigned our joint venture mixed oxide program at Savannah River known as MOX to the EC&amp;M group for better alignment with resources to support the project going forward.
During the quarter environmental solutions continued to generate solid bookings including decommissioning dismantling and disposal of a nuclear reactor and environmental monitoring for close closure operations at landfills in the northeast United States.
In technology we received new licensing awards in the United States China and Asia Pacific the Middle East and a number of catalyst sales from around the globe.
We recently announced two awards from our CATOFIN dehydrogenation technologies part of our joint venture development agreement with Clariant.
Our partnership with Clariant solidifies our presence in the catalyst replacement market expanding opportunities in markets with high rates of expected petrochemical capacity additions such as China and other non-OECD regions.
Our technology markets continue to exhibit increasing proposal activity globally and we expect double digit earnings growth for the year.
In fabrication services we were awarded over $200 million of pipe fabrication and continue to enhance our ability to market our best-in-class key project components including plate structures pipe spools pipe induction bending and modulization.
In spite of some temporary underutilization due to customer delays this quarter major drivers for the demand of fabrication services remains very strong including the developments in shale production petrochemicals pipelines and terminals LNG power refining and offshore projects.
So now I’ll turn the call over to Ron to report the financial details of our first quarter results.
Ron? Thanks Phil and good afternoon everyone.
Let me take you through our solid financial performance for the quarter.
As a reminder our consolidated results for the comparable quarter of 2013 include the results of the Shaw operations from the February 13 2013 acquisition date essentially half of the first quarter.
And of course the current quarter includes the acquired operations for the full quarter.
Additionally in order to focus on the ongoing combined company’s operating performance I will discuss the results excluding the integration and acquisition related costs for both 2014 and 2013 as set forth in more detail in the earnings release.
Revenue for the first quarter was $2.9 billion up $677 million or 30% from the first quarter of 2013.
The revenue increase reflects growth across our operating groups with approximately one quarter of consolidated revenue growth being generated by increased revenue from the summation of CB&amp;I’s historical business units.
The balance of the revenue growth reflects the revenues from the acquired business units being included in our results for the entire quarter of 2014 compared to the first quarter of 2013 which only included results from February 13.
Herein after I will refer to this as the full quarter impact of the acquired operations.
We expect increasing project activity in each of our operating groups to accelerate throughout 2014 providing sequential quarterly revenue growth consistent with the underpinning of our previously announced full year revenue guidance of $12.6 billion to $13.2 billion.
The absolute dollar increase in our gross profit for the quarter was driven by higher revenue volume and totaled $301 million.
Gross profit totaled $246 million in the comparable quarter of 2013.
The consolidated gross margin declined 60 basis points to 10.3% for the first quarter of 2014.
This margin decrease reflects the temporary underutilization of our pipe fabrication capacity driven by customer delays in providing the engineering deliverables necessary to release work to our global fabrication facilities.
We expect improved facility utilization for the remainder of the year.
I’ll come back and discuss changes in our revenue and operating income by operating group in a moment.
Moving to selling and administrative expenses we reported $119 million in the first quarter of 2014 compared to $94 million in 2013.
The most significant increase relates to the full quarter impact of the acquired operations and the accounting cyclicality of our stock based compensation.
Consistent with past years the first quarter has a greater amount of stock based compensation costs due to the accounting requirements to expense stock based compensation in the period of the grant for those individuals who are eligible to retire rather than amortize such costs over the associated vesting period.
While our full year 2014 stock based compensation expense is only expected to increase by 5% or 6% primarily as a result of the 2013 acquisition the first quarter cost increase is more significant.
The expense for the first quarter of 2014 which is predominantly classified as S&amp;A totaled $43 million or $0.27 per share an increase of $10 million from the $33 million in the comparable quarter of 2013.
Due to the demographics of the employee participants and the acquisition the expense in the first quarter of 2014 reflects 63% of the total expected 2014 expense compared to 50% in the first quarter of 2013.
This equates to expense in the first quarter of 2014 incrementally exceeding the stock based compensation of each of the second third and fourth quarters by approximately $0.22 per share.
Stepping back after that long explanation of stock based compensation which I believe is important to understand we continue to expect our full year S&amp;A expense to benefit from the condition operating leverage and cost savings initiatives.
As we previously discussed we expect our full year 2014 S&amp;A as a percentage of revenue to be approximately 3.2% down from 3.4% in 2013.
Intangible amortization totaled $16.2 million for the first quarter of 2014 an increase of $7 million from the first quarter of last year reflecting the full quarter impact of the acquired operations.
We expect the following 2014 quarterly intangible amortization to be generally consistent with that of the first quarter.
Integration related costs of $8.1 million or $0.05 per share for the quarter were related primarily to facility consolidations personnel reductions severance related cost and systems and other integration costs.
We expect our full year integration related costs to approximate $25 million.
First quarter income from operations excluding integration costs or adjusted income from operations was $171 million or 5.8% of revenue compared to $148 million or 6.6% of revenue in 2013.
Net interest expense for the quarter was $18.9 million compared to $21 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Our 2014 and 2013 periods both include a full quarter of financing associated with the acquisition due to the timing of obtaining our initial funding commitments.
However 2013 period included some one-time financing costs that were not recurring in 2014.
Our tax rate for the quarter was 29.5% and benefited by approximately 2.5% from increased tax credits.
Our first quarter [2000] effective income tax rate was 34.7% and was increased by about 3% for certain nondeductible acquisition related costs.
We continue to expect our full year tax rate to approximate 32% reflecting the changing geographic mix of our taxable income to higher tax rate jurisdictions in 2014.
The summation of all that results in the first quarter adjusted net income of $94 million or $0.87 per diluted share or $0.82 per diluted share on an as-reported GAAP basis.
Our full year adjusted EPS remains unchanged at $4.80 to $5.65 per diluted share.
Adjusted EBITDA totaled $216.2 million for the quarter or 7.4% of revenues compared to $176.4 million in the comparable 2013 quarter.
Before I take you through the operating group first quarter results let me highlight two items.
As Phil mentioned we have reclassified the operating results for a large EPC project in the U.S.
that was previously reported within our environmental solutions operating group to our EC&amp;M operating group reflecting the present management oversight for this and all of our large EPC projects.
We have reclassified our 2013 as-reported segment information to conform to our 2014 operating group oversight.
Our first quarter earnings release includes the reclassified financial information and our first quarter form 10-Q includes the reclassified statement of information for each of the four 2013 quarters in the MD&amp;A section.
Lastly just as a reminder regarding the impact of that first quarter stock based compensation charge I discussed previously for the quarter the incremental stock based compensation generally reduces the operating group’s first quarter operating margins by a full percentage point when compared to the annual ranges of the operating group performance which we discussed earlier.
Phil spoke to our new award activity so I’ll provide some overall comments.
Our new awards for the first quarter totaled an all-time high of $5.8 billion for a book to burn ratio of almost 200% compared to $1.9 billion of new awards for the 2013 comparable period.
New awards in excess of $40 million totaled approximately $4.8 billion with the balance of new awards of approximately $1 billion reflecting the important underpinning work which continues to be spread nicely between our operating groups and project types around the world.
Our March 13 [2000] backlog totaled $30.7 billion up from $27.8 billion at the beginning of 2014 and up over $5 billion from the prior year first quarter add subsequent to the Shaw acquisition.
Moving to the operating groups EC&amp;M revenues totaled $2 billion in 2014 an increase of $469 million over the first quarter of 2013.
Approximately 42% of this increase was attributable to higher U.S.
nuclear project revenue which totaled $320 million in the first quarter with the balance of revenue growth relating to the full quarter impact of the acquisition.
The balance of the revenue growth was from our large cost reimbursable projects in South America and the Asia Pacific region.
We expect these projects together with the U.S.
nuclear projects and the recently awarded LNG projects to provide sequential quarterly revenue growth for the balance of 2014.
Income from operations totaled $89 million or 4.5% of revenues in the first quarter of 2014 compared to $67 million or 4.4% of revenues in 2013.
The current quarter benefited from higher revenue volume and the related leverage of our operating costs partially offset by the impact of higher revenues derived from our cost reimbursable projects.
Fabrication services first quarter 2014 revenue was $630 million an increase of $135 million or 21% over 2013.
Approximately 60% of this increase related to the full quarter impact of the acquisition with the balance of revenue growth attributable to SPS.
Operating income for the first quarter of 2014 totaled $40 million or 6.4% of revenues compared to $45 million or 9.1% of revenues in 2013.
This margin decrease reflects the unfavorable $17 million impact from the temporary underutilization of our pipe fabrication capacity in the quarter.
As I mentioned previously the underutilization was driven by customer delays in providing engineering deliverables necessary to release the work to our global fabrication facilities.
We expect improved facility utilization for the balance of the year.
Technology had a strong quarter reporting revenue of $144 million compared to $151 million in the first quarter of 2013.
First quarter operating income totaled $41 million $4 million over 2013 reflecting the higher margin mix of work.
Finally environmental solutions reported revenues of $185 million an increase of $80 million over the comparable period of 2013.
The revenue increase was attributable to the full quarter impact of the acquired operations.
Operating income for both first quarter periods was less than 1% as the results continue to be impacted by the ongoing uncertainty with respect to the federal government funding and prioritization.
We are expecting operating results improvements over the remainder of the year reflecting the implemented cost reduction activities and an improving marketplace.
Now a few comments on our balance sheet cash flow.
Our balance sheet liquidity remains strong with shareholder equity in excess of $2.6 billion cash of $420 million and cash net of revolver borrowings of $85 million.
We continue to enjoy significant support from the credit markets with $2.6 billion of credit availability to support new awards growth and strategic opportunities.
During the quarter we invested $26 million in capital expenditures.
We paid $7 million of common stock dividends and repurchased 716 000 shares of our common stock for $55 million.
Our investment in contract capital reflecting the combined balances of receivables inventory contracts in progress and payables stands at a negative $1.3 billion at the end of the quarter compared to a negative $1.6 billion at the end of the year.
The decrease reflects the timing of cash flows from our U.S.
nuclear projects.
In closing our significant backlog consistent project execution and strong financial position provide us with the necessary financial flexibility to deliver our projects to our owners and to continue the strong returns to our shareholders.
Phil? Thanks Ron.
We’ll now open the call for your questions.
[Operator instructions.] And your first question will come from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Ron maybe you could talk a little bit more about fab services.
You knew this question was going to come up around the project delays there.
What gives you the confidence to think that this really is only a Q1 issue and that things should reconcile in Q2 and beyond? And then it’s a little tempting to worry about Lake Charles within fabrication.
It doesn’t seem like that had anything to do with this but I would just want you to clarify that.
No it wasn’t Lake Charles.
It was some of our larger facilities who are running at a capacity level that was probably when we look at it now a little too dependent on some of the large capital jobs where others are doing the engineering.
And of course it’s not a cost to cost kind of accounting.
It’s as we get the drawings and can start work on the pipe spools.
And I think the lesson there is that probably to raise those capacities a little aggressively with shorter book to burn type awards as well.
But it is already turning around.
We’re seeing the flow of engineering drawings and we expect that to be a temporary situation.
We’ll pick up that revenue and those earnings and there’s [unintelligible] contracts or delays.
But that was an impact on first quarter that we really didn’t anticipate but we think it’s more timing than anything else so we’re pretty confident we’ll get that straightened out pretty quick.
The follow up there is that you have a pretty wide EPS guidance range.
Again it’s tempting to worry that maybe you’ll come in closer to the low end of the range because of this issue.
But you know should we not feel like that’s the case that you start out sort of $0.20 in the hole from this thing but you really can make that up so we shouldn’t just focus on that? We’re confident we’re going to be well within range that this will turn around.
And we’re already seeing it the first month in the next quarter.
It’s starting to turn around.
So we’re pretty confident we’ve got our arms around it.
It’s a really variable cost model and it’s a dime not $0.20 because it’s $17 million operating income.
And of course we have the orders and it wasn’t a project it was just a multiple of these large pipe fabrication orders of which $200 million in the first quarter is all going to start feeding the plants here pretty quick together with the backlog we already have.
So we’ve got pretty good visibility on the timing of ramping up those plans and the resources needed to do it.
And just one quick follow up to your technology comment.
You talked about double-digit growth there still.
Bookings have been okay there and the quarter was fine but it seems like earnings have stabilized there to some extent.
Do you still feel good about growth? We sure do.
I mean you’ve got to look at the mix in that group always.
It’s an interesting anomaly when you have lower revenues you’ve got higher margins and lower earnings.
If we have a quarter where you have more technology sales licensing sales and when you get the larger revenue jobs in [unintelligible] for example that has a bit of dilution on the margin.
So it works both ways.
But we’ve got a number of that entire mix in front of us that we feel pretty good about as far as the licensed technologies a number of heater sales in front of us as well as catalyst sales.
So we’re pretty confident they’re going to exceed their targets.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Dudas from Sterne Agee.
Do you get a sense that given the geopolitical issues regarding the U.S.
and Russia one from the U.S.
side a willingness for getting permits through and getting procedures through quicker to see some of the potential opportunities for LNG bookings maybe be pushed up over the next six to 12 months? And then on the other side given your work in Russia any implications there from what you’re seeing versus just business as usual? Well strictly from a Russian standpoint we continue to enjoy pretty good flow of technology sales in Russia.
We’ve got a couple of capital projects that we’ve been looking at that have been a little sluggish to get to the table but I wouldn’t necessarily associate that with the current sanctions or the political situations in Russia.
And as far as LNG in [unintelligible] or other places that’s pretty far out anyway.
So net-net is we’re probably getting more benefit out of what’s driving in the U.S.
market than we are suffering from anything that’s happening inside Russia.
So we think the acceleration perhaps or the potential acceleration of some of the exports and some of the other developments in the U.S.
could be a good thing for us.
And I think it’s important to note that we don’t have a lot of boots on the ground in Russia.
A lot of that engineering work is being done in our other European offices which right now haven’t been affected by all the happenings there in the last quarter or so.
And then my follow up is any further update on China Power and how nuclear plans are going for them and how it’s going to [unintelligible]? Well you know at the end of the year they had some interesting announcements about the acceleration of the next wave of reactors.
We’ve got a constant dialog going on with them.
We’ve had some training going on with some of their personnel as far as our business culture.
So the relationship is good.
We know enough about China and certainly their enthusiasm about timing we’re very cautious about that but I think if you look at all the nuclear opportunities around the world we believe that China is a good bet for us and we’re certainly working hard towards making sure that we’re well positioned for those developments.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Just a couple of clarifications.
Ron just back on the fab it sounds like you’re both confident things will be improving there.
Are you still thinking for the full year you can get within sort of the 8% to 11% margin target or should we just think about that for the remaining nine months of the year? My second question would be on the guide.
I mean this was $0.10 and if things come back given the fact that you won Cameron you won Freeport why wouldn’t you be more confident at this point that the mid to the high end of the range is more likely versus low? And then my last question just because you’ve been so successful in the recent wins should we be concerned here with the past two quarters hitting $5.5 billion or $6 billion in orders each quarter that we take some sort of pause in the U.S.
just because so much work has moved forward? Let me start with the last one.
First of all as far as the guidance I think that was Andy that targeted the mid to the high.
But we certainly feel confident that fabrication certainly has more opportunity there and we’ll get this utilization fixed.
It’s not going to have an impact on the guidance.
When you look at prospect flow the remainder of the year I’d like to think we’re in pretty good shape to get at least $9 billion more of work out there across the board.
If you look at where the prospects may land it may not be quite the hockey stick at the end of the year that we’ve had in previous years but with the type of work we do it’s never a guarantee.
But we’re looking at the majority of that in the EC&amp;M group.
But good prospect flow throughout the remainder of the year.
It could exceed that but those are with some fairly high probability.
Geographically it’s probably over 75% of that is going to be in the U.S.
There’s going to be pretty good distribution in Canada and Asia Pacific with the rest of the prospects spread out between Australia and some in South America a little in the Middle East and Russia in technology.
So there’s plenty of prospects out there and we think that certainly we have a better than even shot to make fairly good numbers from the new awards for the remainder of the year.
I guess just my last question on the free cash flow side any update on how you’re thinking about that for the year in particular? Because you’ve had some nice wins  Well we certainly think so.
That would be our forecast.
We’re seeing some additional progress.
I mentioned the milestone on Vogtle which you know a lot about and you know how important that is with the follow on from Scana.
The modules coming out of Lake Charles are picking up a lot of pace.
So we’re seeing improvement there.
And that was a component of that.
And we have some down payments we’re looking at some of the big lump sum work later in the year.
So we think by the end of the year our free cash flow actually by perhaps next question will improve significantly.
I would add a couple of things.
I think your original question on the fabrication solutions margins when you put the 17 back in it’s right on top of what it was last year 9.1% give or take with a percent impact on the quarter that will more than go away in Q3 and Q4 related to the [el tip] charge.
We’re up in the low 10s and towards the upper end of that 8 to 11 range which is where we would expect to keep it.
So I think we have not moved our revenue forecast down for the pipe side so those spools are still planned to get through our factories and absorb what we didn’t absorb this quarter.
So I’m not too worried about that.
And I agree with Phil that we’ll get some further down payments as we get released to do work on some of these large jobs Your next question will come from the line of Jerry Revich of Goldman Sachs.
Can you talk about the timing of upcoming U.S.
ethylene and propylene projects that you’re evaluating and competing on? Just give a sense for when you expect those to be approved and reach FID and maybe common at [Formosa] in particular if you’re willing? Well I’d be willing if I knew as precisely as perhaps you want to know.
I think certainly there’s two ethylene projects that we think have a good shot of being awarded second and certainly third quarter.
I’d prefer not to use the client names but I think you know them from Formosa.
Certainly there’s one of them as well as a couple of others that we are on the hunt for.
We also have some ethylene heaters out there that [unintelligible] prime contract.
But certainly we have the heaters.
And also some other associated work with ethylene.
So we think there’s going to be fairly robust new bookings for petrochemicals primarily in the U.S.
for the rest of the year.
And does that extend to propylene as well? I don’t have any that are on my radar right now but we’re certainly watching that very carefully.
And nice win for you in MEI in Australia.
Can you give us a sense if there’s additional work that you’re competing on the similar scope and what are the broader opportunities? I wish there was more there.
I think with the [unintelligible] work and with the Wheatstone work those are major contracts that are going to take a lot of focus.
And just LNG in general.
I don’t see any major LNG awards for the remainder of the year.
There may be some starts on some FEED work some other things.
I really don’t see it for the remainder of the year.
Most of our work is going to come out of power and oil and gas but LNG after this initial $6 billion is going to be a lot more modest than it has been in the past for the remainder of the year.
And your next question will come from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
Could you talk a little bit about the pace of fabrication services bookings? They were less during the first quarter than they’ve been in terms of quarterly average for the last year.
I think when you cut those apart you get the pretty significant new awards for the pipe fabrication side of the business.
Phil mentioned a couple hundred million dollars on U.S.
projects alone.
The steel plate structure business by its very nature they had some nice small underpinning work.
They’re very business in the United States in everything in and around the shale gas and liquids.
We just didn’t have any large ones come home this quarter.
But they are working on some of those middle-sized ones that are very important to us and we would expect some of those to occur in Q2 through Q4.
Just again I think I mentioned before too I think the model that Shaw had was a little over reliant on some of the large orders and we’re looking at more aggressive utilization going forward and less relying on the large jobs and a better mix including smaller orders which have different characteristics and quicker book and burn.
And I think that’s going to close the gap quite a bit.
And then you mentioned I think some contractual remedies related to the delay in receiving engineering awards.
What would be the timing in terms of when you might see the benefit of those remedies? I mean it’s pretty straightforward as far as delays go.
So I don’t want to compromise any of the discussions.
But those are certainly their notification periods which have been addressed in the contract and we would certainly see that going forward.
And it’s pretty straightforward as far as delay in our ability to demonstrate that we had additional costs.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
How are you guys thinking about the mix and visibility between small and midsized and larger projects over the next year? What’s really in that $9 billion and then I guess beyond a couple of quarters? And are the two ethylene plants that you mentioned are those the biggest prospects that you have for the balance of the year? Well the mix you know we’ve talked about this that out of the large jobs the mid and smaller size that underpinning term that we use we’d like to see that at least about $4 billion total at least for the year which is an increase from last year.
And that includes a lot of the technology work a lot of the very interesting engineering work in Europe and Asia and elsewhere that you see in addition to large jobs.
Typically our backlog is an 80-20 backlog with the 80% of our revenue coming from about 20% of the projects.
But still this underpinning work is very important.
So of that $9 billion the same percentage would apply.
Of that $9 billion we would say probably 20% of that is large jobs and the rest of it is [underpinning] work as an estimate.
the $3 billion Sempra job.
We have one between $500 million and $1 billion which is the MEI work in Australia.
We’ve got $1 billion under $40 million which leaves over $1.5 billion of that sweet spot $40 million to low hundreds of millions of dollars.
So that’s a pretty good mix and while we don’t expect a single order of $3 billion in the balance of the year we do think we’ll have the rest of that mix pretty consistently.
Then how should we think about what your aspirations are in the government business going forward given further renaming and the reclassification? And then you mentioned that you think the profitability should pick up going forward.
What’s going to drive that? Is that orders you already have? Or what would drive that going forward? Well there’s a number of good prospects and when you look at just the nature of the backlog well over half of that is associated with environmental type projects whether they be for companies or the government.
They’re in that classification that requires that skill set.
So I think again it’s a name change but I think it’s more descriptive of what we’re actually doing there and probably our focus going forward because when you look on the environmental side the size of those margins is typically are almost double what we can get from the federal government.
And with the issues in terms of the unknowns within the federal government right now we’ve seen a decrease of several billion dollars in most of the major departments that historically Shaw had depended on for most of their federal work.
So you know a redirection in terms of our work going forward to hopefully some projects with a higher margin opportunity and certainly a broader scope.
That doesn’t mean that we’re not doing federal work or government work.
A lot of this remediation work is also at the state and local level.
So we’re going to continue to do that but we wanted to signal a change in our direction in terms of our major emphasis there.
And you have the work already in backlog that’s going to drive the profitability improvements over the next couple of quarters? Well we think the work that’s in backlog is fairly flat.
But we do see some interesting opportunities in environmental work going forward that we’re going to concentrate on.
So I think by the end of this year I think you’re going to see some improvement across the board in this.
And it is our quickest book and burn business so as we see some pickup in atmosphere if you will that burns pretty quickly.
And your next question will come from the line of Will Gabrielski with Stephens.
10-Q isn’t out so I was wondering if you could tell us what the oil and gas and power margins were for the quarter.
We don’t break that out.
We did last year just because of the acquisition but I don’t think there’s a significant difference anymore.
Certainly with the full quarter in there going forward they’ll be pretty much right on top of each other with the large nuclear projects being pretty consistent with the large oil and gas business.
We will see those trend up a little bit as we finish and start slowing down on our large reimbursable jobs.
That’s what will move the needle but those will start being replaced by some of this nice US-based predominantly lump sum characteristic world and that will help us in the future get that margin up a little bit.
Any update on the receivable that was called out in the 10-K I think it was about $125 million and whether or not that’s been collected? We’ve got a seven digit eight digit depending on how you count it knock off zeroes over $100 million payment in the quarter.
And so we still have some that we’re working on but we thought once we get through the process we collect it so it’s down substantially.
And then can you just give an update on where we are with the negotiations and execution on both of the nuclear projects at this point? Well the negotiations on the large claim that’s been out there since the time we acquired Shaw is still being discussed.
Westinghouse has the lead on that so that’s about all I can tell you on that.
It’s still on the table.
We worked through some of the smaller issues related to us which we settled earlier in the year and we reported but that’s still being negotiated.
And then just your general thoughts on execution on both and scheduling   On the nuclear jobs? Yes.
Well I think we made some good progress.
I’m very pleased with the milestone as I mentioned on the main module.
I guess this is unlike an oil and gas job where you have a lot of flexibility in the sequencing work when you use modules.
You have to start with the nuclear island and work around that vertically.
So getting this module in was a great milestone so I think the progress is going to continue to pick up.
Lake Charles has gone through some extensive NRC audits recently and I think passed those pretty well.
There’s still some issues that we’re working through with Westinghouse relating to design changes but it’s all related to make these plans as safe and reliable as possible.
So we’re all working towards the same thing.
So we’re thinking that Scana is going to reach a similar milestone here very shortly and we’re going to continue to make progress and substantial progress on these jobs.
And if you remember pretty much last year first quarter after the acquisition for half the quarter the revenue was about $120 million.
So a little less than a quarter billion dollar run rate.
That pretty much stayed the same all of last year.
And as I mentioned we’re $320 million in the first half.
So you’re seeing the pickup in activity also which as we expected will ramp and plateau for the next several years.
Your next question will come from the line of John Rogers of D.A.
Davidson.
Phil with your backlog a little over two years of revenue now and the pacing of these especially the most recent work in North America do you have to look at adding a lot of capacity this year in anticipation for 2015/2016? And then as a follow up on that should we think about CB&amp;I now with the power work and the LNG work as running with two years of backlog? Or is your thought that you’ll catch up to these bookings? We see a very strong potential backlog going out well into 2017/2018/2019.
So that’s really it.
We look at capacity all the time.
When you look at engineering we’re going to see a bit of a blip in 2014/2015 because of the start of some of the new jobs and the engineering home office services are required but nothing that we can’t handle in our existing engineering offices.
Because as we talked before we can move information around pretty easily and get a lot of talented people around the world working on similar scopes of work for the same project.
So that’s technology we’ve had for a while.
So we don’t see engineering as a constraint outside what we have today for that backlog.
Construction is something we’re looking at very carefully.
Now when we talk about that we talk about the way we’re mitigating that certainly through training through joint ventures through modulization on appropriate jobs.
But the work that’s going into the U.S.
construction market it’s not a zero sum game.
It’s not as if CB&amp;I is carrying that weight alone.
We’ve got very substantial companies like Fluor and Bechtel that are also doing training and hiring and looking at this.
And I think that’s good for the entire industry.
So I think generally the companies in the U.S.
feel pretty confident that productivity is going to be fairly good and we’ve all been training craft people around the world for generations.
So I think collectively we know how to do that.
So there are enough craft people there and people in related fields.
The raw numbers would show you there’s probably a 50 000 person shortfall but it all depends on timing and how we’re spreading that out.
And that shortfall is that 2015/2016? No I think if there’s going to be issues around craft it’s going to be probably 2016/2017 when you see some of this peak.
Not just our work but just generally in the industry.
Because these are big jobs with long engineering cycles.
But with us that’s why we’ve committed to a self-performed direct [unintelligible] model because we can control that work particularly when you think that we can provide all the pipe fabrication tanks and vessels as well.
So there’s very little on these projects that we’re not going to be able to control on these jobs.
But like I said everybody in the industry is working on this and I think we can get it done.
So we feel pretty confident about that.
But we’re watching capacity all the time.
I think when you look at just the hump coming up in that time period when you overlay nuclear jobs they’re still in the beginning stages.
When they’re peaking as well as some of these petrochemical and export jobs 2016/2017 is where we’re going to see a high demand for craft people.
So we’ll work on that now.
Interesting.
When you get up to $30 billion you have to change some of the factors you think about.
About half of our backlog are these multibillion dollar projects that will go off into 2020.
The rest of it would look more like historical CB&amp;I.
You know burning over half less than three quarters a year of that number to maybe a little bit longer.
But it really causes us to rethink about how we think about book and burn.
And you’ve really got to separate them into those two buckets because those LNG projects that we have announced the last couple of quarters we’re talking four or five years and they’re right on top of the nuclear side.
So 2020 isn’t very far off but it’s a long ways out.
And on the margin assumptions the general guidance you’ve given us in the past the ranges that hasn’t changed with the surge in bookings at all? Not yet.
I think what will move the number is as we start having a shift in the percentage of our EC&amp;M work that’s cost reimbursable which is pretty high right now given our three big jobs and replacing that with some of these great North America opportunities which carry higher margins and are closer to home to manage.
And your next question will come from the line of Robert Connors of Stifel Nicolaus.
Not to harp on the fab margins but did you hear anything from your clients in the delays in receiving engineering drawings was it weather related at all in the quarter? No.
Well it’s not the clients it’s their engineers that they’ve hired to do these projects.
And I think it’s just a delay in their process in getting their engineering done.
So again as I mentioned we don’t look at costs the same as we do on EPC jobs.
We can’t do anything until we get the drawings.
And we’re not doing engineering on them.
But again that’s already improved.
We’ve started to see some inflow now.
You know the choice was we could lay off a lot of people but then you just exacerbate that problem by issues in productivity by having to rehire those people later on.
So we took some over absorption on labor on some of these jobs but it’s already improving and we’re pretty confident we’ll get this straightened out.
And then if I actually look back during that 2005/2007 timeframe when Shaw used to own the pipe fab business you know when things got real good they used to be able to achieve EBIT margins in sort of the high teens.
And I’d assume now that it’s obviously a much better run business under you guys than it ever was under them.
So if you step back I know you’ve provided 8% to 11% but is there going to be a step up function as the cycle moves forward with those margins? You know keep in mind fabrication services now is a mix between our steel plate [construction] and our pipe fabrication.
So it depends on how that mix is operating and how well we can control that mix.
And I will say I appreciate your comment but one of the reasons we bought them was we thought that Shaw ran a very good pipe fabrication business.
And we think with the combination and the synergies with our company we could extract great margins out of that.
And we’re seeing that.
When I look at the as-sold margins or the potential as-sold margins in that business and others but in particular that business we think that if we have money to invest in terms of expansion in terms of organic growth in terms of more capacity that certainly is a candidate for us spending more capex there if we see the opportunities.
We’re making the business more global we’re taking it to the Asia Pacific and other places where there’s concentrations of work that they may have not experienced.
So this is all great and we’re going to see the benefits I think beginning this year.
It’s a good example of what to expect though.
Yes this quarter we were always underneath what we expected but that same business can ramp up and flip that switch on and start getting those double digit margins from utilizing the plants not even at capacity to get back to that absorption level.
It’s just the opposite of what happened with the unique set of circumstances this quarter.
So we’re not backing off of what the fabricating service margins could be.
And then Ron real quick with the reclassification of MOX does that change any of the segment guidance numbers for margins? It doesn’t change the EC&amp;M side.
I think longer term we still believe that the government solutions now known as environmental solutions should get to that low end of three.
I don’t know if it will get to six real quickly but the goal is to get into the low end of three at this point in time.
But the bandwidth of operating margin for MOX has the same characteristics as the other EPC [unintelligible] we have.
So that really doesn’t change that bandwidth at all.
Your next question will come from the line of Andrew Wittman with Baird.
I thought it would be kind of worthwhile to dig a little bit into the contract terms that you have specifically around some of these larger projects and maybe you could comment on either [unintelligible] or maybe Wheatstone.
Can you talk to us on how you manage the risk in those? I know you’ve got this [valence] that you want more fixed price but you said in the past just in special carve outs for areas where you don’t want the risk.
Can you just give us some talking points around how you’re picking up the risk today and what you might be able to do in the future where the market is going in the term? That’s an important question because we look at that overall corporate mix very closely.
And we do in many cases have a preference for fixed price work on the right project and certainly on areas that we know geographically as well as customers.
So there’s a lot of factors that go into that selectivity process.
\ The work in Australia is generally on a reimbursable basis for labor that we provide on a rate basis.
We don’t take productivity risk on those jobs.
It’s really based on our ability to provide that labor which we’ve had 75 years of experience doing.
So Australia it’s kind of different for us because it’s the only place in the world we’re seeing [adds] in electromechanical contractor one of the major mechanical electric contractors in Australia.
And we’ve been very successful in doing that so we’re providing that at [Gorgon] and we’re providing that at Wheatstone for Bechtel.
And that’s kind of unique.
When you look at the major project the export facilities most of the jobs that have been most successful are kind of a hybrid contract that has a combination of both fixed price and on some of the major equipment where the owner will provide the major equipment.
We’ll be able to fix a lot of our components of our obligations relative to engineering construction.
And then we have some owners that are entirely fixed contracts but those are typically on projects that we know a lot about.
There’s no new invention.
The supply market is very stable and certainly the equipment is well defined.
So we know that very well.
So we work a whole range of project types and sizes and we really take each one on its own merits to decide what type of contract we’d like to negotiate for that project.
Very few of the major jobs I think the other important thing are bid tenders in the classic sense.
Typically most of these export facilities are in some kind of fee competition where the owner then qualifies and selects the contract they feel best serves their needs and also the price differential and negotiate the EPC.
That’s typically how these things work and so that gives you an advantage to work your long cycle of planning and scoping and pricing before you ever get to the contract.
And I think that’s good for the project and it’s certainly good for mitigating our risk.
And certainly the partner relationships that Phil talked to are part of this equation.
Absolutely.
I also wanted to dig into one other thing that was in the press release.
You mentioned that you’re doing a new decommissioning.
Can you talk about that? That seems a little bit surprising.
Is that a full reactor here in the United States? First of all CB&amp;I before even the reporting acquisition we will participate in 78 of the 104 that were built so we know that market pretty well.
This has to do with some of the current nuclear fleet that’s being decommissioned.
Our preferred role is more of a subcontract role where we take various components of the plant decommission and not handling necessarily any nuclear material.
That’s done by others.
But certainly the infrastructure work and the demobilization of the plant we know something about.
And so that’s seems to be a fairly healthy market for us going forward.
The one announced is really a government job but in our acquired company’s legacy they’ve done several of these decommissioning related projects over the years and they can be pretty substantial in size.
And we have time for one final question.
Your final question will come from the line of Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
I wanted to go back to your comments on capacity and how many large projects do you think you can work on and sort of tie it into your annual revenue guidance.
So let’s say 80% of your revenue comes from 20% of your backlog.
Can you just give us a little bit more color on what you guys feel comfortable in terms of large projects that you could handle at any one time? Well we’re handling $30 billion right now so a lot of that is timing obviously.
Sempra for example is getting a bit of a head start on some of the other export facilities.
We work on a task force basis so each project has a defined team.
We’re able to move engineering around on some of the more commoditized portions of the work so we can mitigate capacity issues there.
So engineering is probably the least constrained if you will in terms of capacity.
When we talk about direct labor you know it’s been a long time since the U.S.
has had the amount of energy infrastructure or any major infrastructure in this country.
So some of the productivity and the craft labor are not at the levels that we’d like to see to be able to not only work for us but the entire industry.
So we look at the hundreds of billions of dollars that could be invested over the next five seven ten years.
That’s going to require our industry and others to train a lot of the workforce for that.
And so when we look at the existing construction direct labor workforce out there and what is needed for the entire industry that’s where we came up with that 50 000 kind of gap that’s going to need to be trained by the industry.
To put it in perspective Sempra for example is not an overwhelming task.
You’re talking about 3 000 people I think on that job in Louisiana where we have a high concentration of labor and access to labor also training facilities.
Some of the petrochemical jobs are 1 000 to 1 500.
So these aren’t overwhelming.
For example we’re doing a job in Colombia where we have 14 000 people working that we’ve had to train the majority of them.
So we have those methodologies and processes in place to do that.
So what you’ll get in the U.S.
that you don’t get in Colombia and some places is higher productivity.
So that’s kind of how we think about capacity but again they’re big numbers and how many we can handle that certainly is offset by what I mentioned.
It’s in training it’s in joint ventures as we’re doing Zachry and [Shield] and others.
And also there’s also a modulization component there which can be very effective in offsetting demands on workforce.
So there are a lot of options that contractors have to deal with capacity.
Okay but you’re not in a situation where your customers are maybe turning to some of your competitors because of the current projects you know booked or currently in the process of… No we haven’t seen that and it’s not just an EPC issue.
We’ve got fabrication and other businesses.
Fabrication you know it doesn’t take a lot of capital I think as Ron referred to to expand capacity by quite a bit by adding laydown yards additional lines and so forth and increased efficiency.
So we don’t see any capacity constraints in our fabrication shops for the work that we see.
And we’re projecting out 2017/2018 and beyond so we think we have a pretty good visibility into what’s going to be spent in our addressable market and we’re working that today as far as getting ready for that demand.
And just one more question I think you had mentioned previously that you were negotiating a third-party supply agreement for your piping storage tanks.
I was wondering if you could provide an update on where you are or what kind of opportunity that could represent? Would you clarify that a little bit? I don’t remember saying that.
[laughter] I think you had mentioned previously that you might have been in the process of maybe talking to a customer about supplying piping and storage tanks but maybe that’s part of the work you’re expecting in the fabrication through the year? Well I apologize for the misunderstanding.
No we don’t have any agreement currently in place for what you described and I know there are several customers who do approach that work but we’re not necessarily pursuing something like that.
We’re probably on the opposite side.
We have clients that would prefer to have [unintelligible] agreements framework agreements that we are obviously working on.
But not suppliers And that will conclude today’s question and answer portion of the conference call.
I’ll turn the conference call back over to Philip Asherman for closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
First of all let me thank you for participating in our call this afternoon.
As I said earlier we remain confident in our ability to deliver revenue and earnings growth consistent with our expectations for 2014 and convert these awards into long term shareholder growth.
We continue to be very optimistic about our markets and prospects and it’s shaping up to be another strong year.
We appreciate your interest in CB&amp;I and your confidence in our company.
This concludes our call.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
My name is Holly and I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time we would like to welcome everyone to the CB&amp;I Second Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator instructions] Before beginning today's call the company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions that company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company's press release and the SEC filing.
While forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we report Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron’s results for the second quarter of 2014.
We’ve got a little change this afternoon Ron Ballschmiede who I don’t believe has ever missed an earnings call since he has been with the company got ill this morning and we sent him out to get checked but it’s great opportunity to reintroduce someone that you met at our investor day and during the course of business is our Corporate Treasurer Luciano Reyes.
Luciano has been with the company since 1998 and has been the Corporate Treasurer since the same week that I got my job and I think certainly well versed in our finances and he is going to provide the financial results for the quarter following a brief summary of the overall performance of the company from me.
Our second quarter produced solid results for CB&amp;I our backlog of business on projects and shops labs and engineering offices increased nearly 30% year-over-year.
We maintain our relentless focus on safety capitalized on the continued growth in our market and achieve strong financial results.
In the quarter new awards totaled $4.2 billion and year-to-date CB&amp;I has booked over $10 billion in awards resulting in a backlog of $31.5 billion as of June 30.
This quarter we generated $3.3 billion in revenue and earnings per share of a $1.36 excluding integration related costs.
In safety we continued our goal of zero injuries year-to-date with more than $82 million work hours performed since January 01 we recorded a lost time incident rate of 0.03 which is one of the best safety records in our industry.
Projects with outstanding safety performance for hours work without a lost time accident included Ecopetrol's REFICAR project in Cartagena Colombia with 78 million work hours.
Exxon's Papua New Guinea project with 21.5 million work hours and the MOX Savannah River program in South Carolina with more than 19 million work hours all without a lost time accident.
These tremendous achievements on these projects are examples of our commitment to believe that zero accidents is achievable.
And as a safety record along with our long history of self-performed direct hire execution that makes CB&amp;I an employer of choice in the industry and continues to provide us access to the resources needed to hire and retain skilled workers.
We are particularly focused on our direct hire model for recruiting hiring training and managing craft labor for our LNG export and petrochemical projects along the Gulf Coast as well as the anticipated demand for shop workers technicians and engineers.
Year-to-date we have hired over 1100 engineering and technical personnel primarily in the Gulf Coast region.
Our direct labor will significantly ramp up next year through our peak period in 2016 and 2017.
We anticipate our direct labor headcount for our construction and maintenance projects will be close to 20 000 direct hire workers.
One of the key mitigation factors in the demand for resources continues to be our flexibility to collaborate with other firms to strengthen our competitive position such as our joint-venture for projects with Zachry Corporation on Freeport LNG and Chiyoda Corporation for virtually all of the LNG developments in North America and Mozambique.
Our joint developments such as our agreement with Clariant for catalyst our recently announced agreement with Versalis for low-density polyethylene and ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer technologies our equity investment for technology development such as Chevron Lummus Global our consortium with Westinghouse for the nuclear projects in the US and our recent announcements on our agreements with China Power Investment Corporation with China National Nuclear Corporation for the development of nuclear power in China.
Now we are confident that our ability to effectively collaborate with expert partners to maximize our competitive positioning in adjacent markets or geographies or better develop new projects and technologies will keep CB&amp;I a pacesetter in the industry.
Our new awards during the period are indicative of our global diversity across the markets in the energy infrastructure industry.
They range from a combined cycle gas turbine power station in the US technology license and feed scope for a large scale ethylene cracker in the US significant maintenance modification and construction awards for the US nuclear power units long-term maintenance and operations at multiple chemical facilities throughout the US storage spheres for a grassroots refinery in Saudi Arabia storage for ammonia plant expansion in the US delayed coking hydrocracking crude and vacuum heaters in Oman and operations and services work for the US EPA as well as numerous strategic technology environmental and fabrication awards around the world.
Now let me review in more detail relevant headlines from our – relevant highlights from our operating groups.
Our engineering construction and maintenance group had a very positive quarter with significant new awards and developments across our end markets.
Third-quarter results included $3.2 billion in new awards revenue of $2.3 billion and a 66% increase in operating income over the comparable period last year.
Starting with power during the quarter we announced an EPC award for 607 MW gas-fired combined cycle plant for Indianapolis Power &amp; Light.
Now this award is a first of a series of gas-fired projects in the United States that we expect to be built supported by the low cost of natural gas feedstock.
CB&amp;I has a strong track record in fossil power as evidenced by our soon to be completed 550 MW Ninemile combined cycle plant for Entergy in Louisiana.
We are currently preparing the plant for first fire in the coming months.
During the quarter our US nuclear projects completed key milestones more specifically at V.C.
Summer we set the CA20 module for unit 2 and the first ring of the containment vessel for unit 3.
While at Vogtle we set the containment bottom head vessel for unit 4 and started the CA1 module assembly for unit 3.
Outside of the United States we continue to make progress on positioning CB&amp;I for future nuclear work in China.
As recently announced we finalized strategic agreements with China National Nuclear Corporation for future nuclear power generation projects in China.
This combined with our joint venture with China Power Investment means CB&amp;I has co-operative agreements in place with two of the three state owned corporations with the authority to own and operate nuclear power plants in China.
We see strong fundamental drivers supporting developments in China as they aim to reduce their dependency on imports and experience growing demand for reliable and clean energy.
Our market leadership in nuclear power is also reflected in the growth of our plant services business.
We were awarded an $800 million contract from Exelon for maintenance modification and construction services for their expanded nuclear fleet in the United States and we continue to enhance the competitiveness of our maintenance business by broadening its addressable market in terms of clients and geographies with locations now including Central and South America Canada and Asia-Pacific.
Our oil and gas business continues to perform very positively with a number of very tangible opportunities in the foreseeable future.
Starting with LNG our Australian Golden mechanical erection and instrumentation project continues to ramp with more than 2800 people onsite.
Preparations for construction activities are underway for Wheatstone LNG and in the US recently awarded LNG projects continue to move forward into final investment decision.
Cameron LNG obtained its final FERC approval clearing the way for a final investment decision in the third quarter.
Also Freeport LNG is essentially ready to go to field in the third quarter.
Our feed work for Elba Island liquefaction project in Georgia continues to advance and we believe we are well positioned for the EPC on that project.
And in East Africa we continue to progress our feed activities for Mozambique.
We are confident that our expertise and ability to address the complex demands of these projects will continue to lead to the EPC awards in 2015.
For petrochemicals we announced an award for license technology and feed for a large scale US Gulf Coast ethylene cracker during this quarter which may convert to EPC before year’s end.
At our Ingleside OxyChem ethane project engineering and procurement are underway.
This project reflects the value of our business model as it incorporates technology licensing feed environmental services piping storage proprietary equipment and EPC.
We expect additional opportunities as it relates to the US petrochemical market in the second half of 2014 and into 2015.
Our Cartagena refinery expansion continues to progress well.
We currently have more than 15 000 employees on-site and have completed over 78 million work hours without lost time injury as this major project winds down this year.
Also our gas processing project in ExxonMobil in the Highlands in Papua New Guinea is also in the process of demobilizing.
We are tremendously proud of the success of this project on all fronts.
They are particularly performing well on almost 22 million work hours without a lost time incident and outstanding cost and schedule performance in an extremely challenging work environment.
Environmental solutions had a very positive quarter.
The operating group is showing positive trends as a result of focus efficiency and selectivity.
Operating income nearly doubled from the same period last year and new awards of 280 million during this period include contracts to provide operations and research services at a number of facilities for our government agency site preparation for oil and gas developments site remediation work in petroleum decontamination and hazardous waste cleanup services.
We'll continue to align with the in marks with the most opportunity and where our expertise is greatest and expect to continue to be within guided ranges for this business.
Our technology group had a record quarter.
We booked over $500 million in new awards combined with our unconsolidated equity joint venture with Chevron Lummus Global.
Notably these new awards were a good mix of scope geographies and addressable markets including engineered products refining and gasification and petrochemicals.
Awards include two gas projects include two gas plant equipment and module supply contracts refinery heater the contracts in Saudi Arabia and Oman.
The new grassroots ethylene project in Turkmenistan a high propylene cab cracker and numerous strategic awards in China.
We continue to enjoy a strong prospect list and expect the second half of the year to be similar to the first with (inaudible) and hydro processing continuing to lead the way in the United States Russia Middle East and China.
We also expect to put major heater contracts associated with ethylene licences previously awarded.
During the quarter we also continued to expand our portfolio of petrochemical projects and partnered with Chrysalis to licence low density polyethylene technology used to manufacture a variety of projects such as rubber and your running shoes.
Fabrication services had a solid quarter in both our pipe fabrication and steel plate structured business.
New awards for the quarter represent a good mix of geography in markets and under penny work.
As indicated by the significant rebound in operating margin at the top end of our guided rage we’ve address the impact of delays and client furnished materials and owner engineering reported last quarter by aggressively reducing headcount and improving the contract mix in our shops and we expect further improvement.
Demand for our piping products remains strong with significant traction in the Unites States Canada the Middle East and Australia.
We deliver our large first diameter pipe spools for the week’s stone L&amp;G projects in Australia shipped from our Abu Dhabi shop.
We continue to make good progress on the module delivery for U.S.
nuclear projects.
During the quarter we shipped 44 nuclear modules and pipe spools on ahead of our schedules and made progress well in nuclear modules into large sub assemblies of boggle and summer.
Our storage and tank business reached a number of highs during the period as we air raised 27 large tank roofs a company record including large L&amp;G and LPG roofs in China Australia Saudi Arabia and the U.S.
We currently have 59 pressure spheres underway in the U.S.
Middle East and South America and we continue to see high levels of prospect activity in our low temperatures and pressurised storage in the Unites States.
As well as a good mix of work from central and south America the Middle East and Canada from a variety of end markets.
So in summary our four operating groups have strong performance during the quarter and we are firm our guidance for the year.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Luciano to report the financial details of our first quarter.
Luciano? Thanks Phil.
Good afternoon everyone.
Let me take you through our solid financial performance for the quarter.
Revenue for the second quarter was $3.3 billion up $444 million or 16% in the second quarter 2013.
The increase for the quarter was primarily due to net increases on our large cost reimbursable projects in the Asia Pacific region in Columbia and progress on our large nuclear project all of which are included in our engineering construction and maintenance operating group or EC&amp;M.
This level of activity is expected to continue in the back half of the year consistent with our previously announced full year revenue guidance of $12.6 billion to $13.2 billion.
Gross profit for the quarter totaled $381 million or 11.6% of revenue compared to $297 million or 10.4% of revenue in the comparable 2013 quarter.
The dollar increase and percentage improvement in our gross profit for the quarter was driven by the higher revenue volume improved mixed of work cost reduction actions and greater operating leverage.
Selling and admin expense increased $5 million to $98 million in the second quarter of 2014.
Importantly we continue to benefit from our operating leverage.
S&amp;A’s percentage of revenue improved 30 basis points to 3.0% in the second quarter of 2014 from the comparable 2013 period.
We expect our full year 2014 S&amp;A as a percentage of revenue to be approximately 3.3%.
Integration related cost of $9.5 million or $0.05 per share for the second quarter of 2014 really primarily to facility consolidations personal relocation and system integration costs.
We expect our full year integration related cost of approximately $30 million for the year.
In order to focus on the ongoing company's operating performance during the second quarter we will discuss the results excluding the integration and acquisition related costs for both 2014 and 2013 as set forth in more detail in the earnings release.
Second quarter income from operations excluding integration cost or adjusted income from operations was $270 million or 8.2% of revenue compared to $195 million or 6.9% of revenue from the second quarter in 2013.
Net interest expense for the quarter was $20.2 million compared to $18.8 million in the second quarter of 2013 reflecting increased borrowings in 2014.
Our income tax rate for the second quarter of 2014 was 30.4% up from 28.2% for the comparable quarter of 2013.
The lower prior tax year rate was primarily the result of previously unrecognized tax benefits.
We expect our full year tax rates to approximately 31% reflecting the changing geographic mix to our taxable income to higher tax rate jurisdictions in 2014.
Our net income attributable to non-controlling interest for the quarter totaled $24.7 million an increase of $11 million over the 2013 period.
The increase primarily reflects the increasing activity of our Gorgon MEI project.
The summation of all that results in second quarter adjusted net income of $148 million or $1.36 per diluted share or $1.31 per diluted share on an as reported GAAP basis.
Our full year adjusted EPS guidance remains unchanged at $4.80 to $5.65 per diluted share.
Our new orders for those second quarter totaled $4.3 billion for book-to-burn ratio of 128% compared to $2.5 billion of new orders for 2013 comparable period.
Our June 30 2014 backlog totaled $31.6 billion up from $27.8 billion at the beginning of 2014 and up over $6 billion from the 2013 first quarter end subsequent to the Shaw-acquisition.
Now few comments on our balance sheet and cash flow: Our balance sheet and liquidity remains strong with total shareholders’ equity of $2.8 billion and revolver and other short term borrowings net of cash of $235 million.
We continue to enjoy significant support from the credit markets with $2.7 billion of available credit at June 30 2014 of which over $700 million maybe utilized for incremental borrowings.
During the first half of the year we invested $58 million in CapEx paid $15 million of common stock dividends repurchased $67 million of our common stock and repaid $50 million on our term loan.
We expect positive operating cash flows for the back half of the year.
With that I will turn it back over to Phil.
Thanks Luciano.
Now let's open the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question will come from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Good afternoon guys.
Good afternoon Andy.
How are you? Good how are you? Phil you really didn’t announce anything huge in the quarter.
You had a very strong bookings quarter.
You talked I think in previous call about something like $3 billion a quarter for the next few quarters of work.
So one of the quarter was higher than your expectations and do you think you can continue to see this kind of momentum for the rest of the year? I think we talked about some potential targets within the year Andy even though we are not guiding that we talked about the amount of prospects we still see in progress.
We thought it could be achievable to getting that $50 billion range and I still stand behind that.
One of the reasons my comment was so much longer is because the broad diversity and types of orders we had that were very very significant.
And that's a great mix.
I mean that’s great underpinning long term work and there is still some larger projects still out in front of us if we can get the timing right.
So I am very encouraged by what we see particularly in the U.S.
markets.
The international markets right now are primarily fabrication and technology type markets but certainly within the U.S.
we see a tremendous amount of opportunities including more petrochemical ethane projects in U.S.
and so we are very encouraged by being able to achieve that target for this year.
Okay and then Phil and Luciano earnings were obviously good in the quarter but cash was another sizable burn.
You said in the past that you expect this divergent to significantly improve towards the end of the year and Luciano I know as you said cash from op should be positive for the second half of the year.
I think the key question is do you still expect free cash flow to equal net income later this year and then going forward from there and obviously there is the clashing around dense payment from the new projects how that factors into that.
But how close can we get to net income with free cash flow and when do we expect those to sort of equal each other going forward? I think when you look at free cash flow it's probably going to be a push towards the end of the year.
We expect to hit some milestone circling on our new projects which have been a contributing factor to that.
We certainly see some possibilities plus major down payments at some of the major EPC awards move forward.
So that's certainly going to be contributing factor and just overall projects.
We expect to see a lot of that get cleaned up before the end of the year and cash flow continuing to drive itself.
Okay.
So and then just maybe a bit of follow-up can you give us a little more color on your power and government markets really this Shaw former business you did announce to combine cycle job on a quarter which is great some significant nuclear maintenance awards.
Do you see those markets picking up or would you still characterize them in lethargic and obviously I think investors have been worried that you might have to take impairment on the former Shaw business maybe you can talk about that? No I don't know that I have ever used that word lethargic.
I think the plant services for example has just done a tremendous job of leverage and expertise and expanding this relationships and services to companies like (inaudible) and others.
We have also assisted that by making them part of our global footprint as a result they have been able to address large maintenance jobs in four-five different locations internationally we think that's expanding.
So these guys are very good at this.
Now that's not our highest margin work but it's really good in terms of keeping this in from the clients relationships and significant volume associated with that.
So I think that's better than significantly better obviously then when we bought it.
The fabrication services you know the first we had a hick up of the first quarter some of that had to do with just kind of understanding of the utilization factors and association with these large projects getting a better mix of projects and size projects that have different booking burn characteristics.
And perhaps an over reliance on some of the larger jobs that we had booked but had some delays as I mentioned in client furnished material and engineering.
We fixed that we are at the top of the range.
I think it’s 11% we had reported in operating margin this year and I think we can do even better.
So as we expand that it’s not only an own backlog but the external work there’re very little CapEx that’s been announced certainly in the Americas and elsewhere that we don[‘t have an opportunity to get a piece of it then.
So those are the shop businesses and so nuclear continues to make great progress.
The combined cycle was extremely important because to get that first one especially because the reference plants and just the experience associated with doing those plans is going to be extremely beneficial in getting the following plans so we are very excited about that.
So I’m not lethargic at all about the buisenss I don’t think impairment is an issue.
I think its just going to continue to grow and we see more and more opportunities.
Alright thanks guys appreciate it.
Thanks [Andy].
And your next question will come from the line of Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee  Good afternoon gentlemen.
Hey Michael.
And hope Ron feels better soon.
I’m sure he will.
He’ll be fine.
That’s great news.
Thank you.
First question the engineering construction business had very strong margin performance good revenue growth can you expand a little bit about how that’s been working and you know the improvement we have seen and you know how mix and some of the new business targets ahead of us could maintain or even accelerate some of those productivity margin gains in that business? Well you know we are seeing more and more movement of these jobs that we have been working in FEED in the very front end of preliminary engineering finally start getting some tractions from pace.
As I mentioned in my comments we think looking forward we can go to the field virtually any time with some additional approvals there but we are pretty much ready to go.
I mean we can go to the fields so you are going to see that.
You know I think just overall generally we’ve taken a little bit of cost we have consolidated we have done a lot of things to make sure that we are fishing on all fronts.
And I think that’s what you are seeing.
So just a performance is much better.
And it’s a nice mix of work certainly in North America.
And I think when you look in front of us we probably got four ethylene projects it is still possible to book this year and there is about nine worldwide and those were of the size that we should be very competitive and very much involved in if its not just from a technology but certainly U.S on EPC side.
So we’re seeing all of that.
So we are very pleased to see the margins at the top of that range and we hope its perhaps demand increases we might see some incremental improvement on that.
Appreciate that feedback.
And just my second question.
Just maybe a bigger picture international it seems like each quarter we have more geopolitical and tensions in some of the areas of the world that you might be working in.
Any observations or anything that you are seeing that would cause a bit of concern or slow down a little bit in orders or business there or could that be an advantage for some of the North American opportunities to kind of leap frog as we look longer term? Well specifically Russia for example and the sanctions we’ve had a couple of questions about that and any exposure we have that.
I mean they are very narrow and the sanctions are very narrow we haven’t seen any impact we really don’t anticipate and that effects mainly our technology licensing business and in Russia should those sanctions expand I think our exposure is fairly minimal in terms of it but certainly our outlook this year and when you spread it over multiple years I don’t think that will be certainly much of an impact.
Other than we’ve always enjoyed a fairly robust business there from a technology standpoint.
In the Middle East certainly our main – primary business there these days has been in technology and fabrication services.
We haven’t seen really an impact on that business but that – you political in terms of our market opportunities than just competitive issues.
So on that front we’ve not seen the positive side is the work that is driving the CapEx we see throughout the Americas.
We continue to see new opportunities and new discussions around a wide range of investments and CapEx particularly in our energy markets and its particularly in the ones that we are well positioned for.
So that has been a very positive impact on projects that quite honestly like the one up in Eastern Canada probably wasn’t even on – a year ago so there is a lot of discussion and aggressive development on CapEx and energy in U.S.
And I think we can be a part of much of it.
It doesn’t happen now and I’m not sure when but still thanks for your time.
Appreciate it.
Well I agree Michael.
And your next question will come from the line of Jamie Cook Credit Suisse  Hi good evening and congrats on a nice quarter.
Hi Jamie.
I guess a couple of questions.
One I think last quarter you guys talked like on the tech business and that profit dollar should grow in the double digit range.
Is that still the expectation on the back half of the year and you actually had like I think 23% which was above sort of my targets? So can we continue to deliver that type of growth? The second question relates to capacity Phil just given the success that guys have had so far if there are any concerns from customers about your ability to take on you know some larger LNG projects just because of the success you have today.
And then my last question relates to how you are thinking about share repurchase just given you know the performance of your stock more recently would you be more aggressive on a share repurchase just if you were to show your sort of longer term confidence in the earnings power of the company? Thanks.
Thank you.
Okay let me address technology I actually think that you can expect to see the same kind of performance in the second half of the year that we were experiencing in the first half of the year.
You know these new work Jamie would [indiscernible] guys did a tremendous job of just not depending on the technologies that we’ve had over the years to continue to sell more of those license more of that.
What they have done is look at their business very creatively and put together technologies collaborations and other opportunities in a very interesting way to our market place and expand our opportunities tremendously and new licensing opportunities as well as a follow on catalysts.
And that’s going to continue and so we see that technology is going to have a very good year this year.
In terms of capacity you know I mentioned that we hired 1 100 engineers just today.
I think we have maybe a couple of hundred on open [rigs] but we don’t see any constraints around rig engineering now that’s something we constantly communicate with current customers as well as new ones.
We’d assumed we don’t see any constraint.
The direct hire issue when you look at the current job there we currently have about 8000 direct hire employees in the effective regions where all this CapEx is going to occur.
And you know when you look at Golf Coast from a labor standpoint that really extends from the Carolinas that down to Texas simply because that’s the market that we can recruit direct labor from So we got 8000 on end.
We’ve got inactive employees when you put the legacy [Shell] employees in our database together there’s over 116 000 of direct hire employees that are in our database that are inactive that we can certainly draw from a good number of those.
And then during our current recruitment we have a current database of probably close to 45 000 registered craft workers that can contribute to that overall peak that we are seeing around 20 000 craftsmen from 2016 to 2017 which means that if all our numbers are correct and our assumptions were correct we’ll probably only have to train and hire about 10% of that workforce.
That’s not an overwhelming number.
We are building training centers in Louisiana and Texas.
We work in all the states you know we are going to direct hire most of these people so we’ve got very aggressive plans for all of that.
So that’s the kind of message that we give to our customers and prospective customers show him the data understand you know when you look at escalation of labor wages and you look at probably 2006 to now mechanical rate has probably only increased by $0.36.
Now you can anticipate escalation certainly but it's not going to be again I don't think it's going to be certainly achievable.
So that's the kind of things we are thinking about.
So it's a challenge certainly but that's the business we are in and we are pretty confident that we are going to be able to meet that.
And last on the share repurchase? And the share repurchase you know we talked to you about our capital allocation plan and how we are going to deploy our capital.
Certainly share repurchase is along the lines of what we have experienced today.
I don't think you are going to see us with any extraordinary type of plan to repurchase this year.
We are looking at some additional perhaps adds to our technology business some additional capital we may deploy to our fabrication.
We think that's a good return for our shareholder’s capital.
So I think as we described our share repurchase and all the other components for our capital allocation plan that's what we are going to continue to do through this year.
Okay great.
Thanks.
I will get back in queue.
Thanks Jamie.
And your next question will come from the line of Robert Norfleet with Alembic Global Advisors   Hi Robert.
Hi.
This is actually [Indiscernible] for Rob Norfleet.
First of all congratulations on a great quarter.
Thank you Rob.
Nick I am sorry Nick.
No problem.
We were curious at this point are you actively looking to divest any assets from your portfolio and if so what would be the proceeds be used for? Well you know one of the advantage we have – we have in this diversity and the scale now within our combined companies is there are assets which may not be as core as they were seen before we made the combination and so we are looking at those things and there are several things we are considering.
Obviously I can't get too descriptive right now.
All those – any kind of conversation is we have non-disclosure agreements and so forth.
We are actively looking at specific assets that are non-core.
We like to depending on the value and where we are certainly share repurchase in that instance would be certainly an alternative to deploy these assets depending on how much we got for the assets and there are other factors but in the absence of those divestitures certainly the capital allocation plan that I mentioned to Jamie was – it's certainly what we have in front of us.
But yes we are looking at certain assets that we may divest.
That's great.
Thank you.
Okay.
And your next question will come from the line of Will Gabrielski with Stephens.
Hello Will.
Good evening.
Can you talk about the P&amp;G in Cartagena ramping down and then what you have ramping up how – can you keep the sequential growth going across revenues through this year and into next year still.
Yes.
Well yes P&amp;G has just done a great job.
I mean it's not just a great job for us but I think I know on Exxon Mobil’s earnings call I think they are probably going to talk about this.
When you look at not only gas conditioning portion of that but also liquefaction trends at [Indiscernible] you know our good partner in many other projects have built I think Exxon Mobil would tell you that this is probably one of the best economical projects in terms of cost and schedule and all factors that we have seen certainly in LNG.
So they are going to be very very proud of that.
We are very proud of that and we will demobilize that – certainly demobilize of that project within the next couple of months or so.
So that's a project with a great result.
When you look at Cartagena we have still got lot of people on there we are going through commissioning.
We are turning over system.
So that’s a little slower ramp down.
Like I said we still have 15 000 people working on that job.
So that will take a little longer but in the whole scale of the job that's certainly on the back end of that and I think again the start up is going very well.
It's a big challenge.
It's a huge job and one that’s going to take lot of effort from the owner to get the systems run but again I think that job has been extremely successful.
Where that plays out in overall curves I mean we started looking at that a long time ago what is going to take the place of that.
I think when you look at the curves certainly our LNG export facilities in the US and the large petrochemical projects in the US most of it is in US in terms of the value and the size of the projects that will take the place of those in our backlog.
And I am sorry they are assumed in our forecast and our guidance as far as those jobs coming down and new ones coming up.
Okay.
Can I push you a little harder following up on Andy’s question on cash flow? You can try.
Yeah no I don't want to call it like it was certainly like a non-committal oil cash I am absolutely positive but when you are printing $140 million $150 million in GAAP net income and $50 million in D&amp;A like it ought to be so I am just wondering what do you see as the headwinds or tailwinds to getting to cash from ops converting out of better than net income by at least the D&amp;A amount.
Well what I said was what we see.
Of course if that didn’t happen and that would be a headwind and that would be if we failed to make the kind of progress in the milestones associated with our nuclear modules.
I mean that is going to be very important to hit those goals.
Again what we anticipate in our cash flow in terms of the down payments for large LNG job.
That's certainly going to be helpful and the overall operations of the company contributing to the cash flow.
So if those six or seven drivers didn’t occur that would certainly – certainly causes some concern.
There is no reason at this point to think that it's not.
So we anticipate that's why I made the statement that cash flow is going to be positive by the end of the year.
Okay.
I know – And certainly better after that.
I appreciate that.
Thank you.
I know the Qs are now out but I am sure it will have some color in there that will enable us to at least analyze what the non-cash earnings impact was from the Shaw acquisition which will get a lot of airplay once for all disconnected from this call so if there is any color you want to add around that for the quarter for the rest of the year? State your question again.
The non-cash earnings impact that resulted from the fair market value adjustments that you made through the purchase price allocation process for the Shaw deal I was just wondering if there was any – I mean this was like an opportunity for you guys to address that publicly so I just wanted to know.
Well thank you Will and what I will say publicly is we always standby by certainly the higher prices and our judgment is made on that and the validity of our financial statements and our earlier statement that we made when that report which we deemed was misleading and inaccurate came out we feel we have been very responsive to all the inquires we have had and certainly there has been some comprehensive reports published by analysts such as you and others that we feel have been very thorough and again comprehensive and I think that’s been good.
I think we can move on.
But certainly and I think if you look in the 10-Q that we provided even greater detail on the acquisition accounting.
So look at that if you have any detailed questions after reading that and the other reports that you would like to source we will be more than happy to go through that with you again.
Fair enough.
Thank you very much.
Okay Will.
And your next question will come from the line of John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Hi good afternoon.
John how are you?  Good.
Good.
Hey just a couple of follow-ups on that cash flow for a second.
The positive cash flow that you are seeing in the second half are you assuming any recoveries on – related to the nuclear project in there.
You mentioned milestones but –  We haven’t – no I mean that will certainly be great but we haven’t assumed that.
We haven’t assumed that.
It is just it's taking time and we just haven’t assumed that.
So we are not counting on that.
So it's the normal operations the job the cash flows from our project’s progress I mean getting it the old fashioned way.
So that’s the basis of our assumption.
And where are you in terms of those recoveries timeline and process?  Yeah well the recoveries you know it's not in litigation.
It's in negotiation.
The negotiation by the nature of the claim is led by Westinghouse because it's on the basis of the value of the changes required by the regulatory – requirements.
It's I – you know I don't think anybody would tell you it's a matter of entitlement.
It's just a negotiations on what that entitlements were.
So cost that we have wrapped up in that certainly would be released if we can get a settlement on that.
So we are you know I think all parties involved would like to get this thing resolved as soon as possible and working towards that end.
And in terms of your guidance for the year you are still it's got a pretty big range here in terms of earning in the second half can you give us a little bit of color on how we should think about the possibility – I guess I have given to you last November so I guess [Indiscernible].
Yeah no I know.
But I you know I am really encouraged by what we are seeing in this.
I mean I am more optimistic than I am anything else in terms of whether we are going to fall within that range and I think when we look at the estimates by the analysts out there I think you know hopefully – we are hopeful we are going to be in the middle range like the middle of the fairway like everyone else.
So we are very encouraged by what we see.
Thank you.
I appreciate the help.
All right John.
And your next question will come from the line of Chase Jacobson with William Blair.
Hello Chase.
Hi good afternoon.
Can you guys address the competitive environment? One of your European competitors this morning seemed to be a little bit more cautious on that and then what we have heard recently I think they compared it to 2009 and 2010 in the Middle East so just what you are seeing there? Yeah.
I think I know what you are talking about there but I think from our perspective we are very fortunate to be positioned so well in the North American marketplace.
I think tremendous amount of Capex around the world I think if you look at the concentration in energy infrastructure primarily in North America if you are not positioned there then I think it's going to be difficult.
I mean we are seeing a lot of technology activity in the Middle East but I think it's still fairly well marginalized by the involvement of the Koreans and some very stiff competition out there.
Offshore floating LNG those are very good opportunities but again they are very opportunistic.
So if you are not engaged in Australia and you are not engaged or well positioned in North America it could be a little tougher.
So we are very fortunate to be positioned in both of those areas.
And that's how we see it.
But I also think you know our business model is not overly dependent on EPC work even as that cycles throughout the world offsetting cycles you know there is there are so many ways that we can participate anywhere in the world in a variety of ways at fairly high margin businesses we think we have got an advantage there as well.
Okay.
And then on the fabrication services sorry if I missed it but can you address why the revenue was weaker there and even with the weaker revenue you guys did a good job on the operating margins.
So is that because of mix or is that because of things that CB&amp;I is doing to help improve the margin in that business? Yeah.
Well we had to respond.
We haven’t seen all the improvement that we would like to see out of the – what happened in this first quarter where we had underutilization combined with delayed plant furnish materials and engineering drawings from other projects and other clients.
That hasn’t completed righted itself yet.
Well what we did do is take a very aggressive view on our cost structure [Indiscernible] our flow and our capacities on our project and made some tremendous changes to get those margins back where they needed to be.
So I think as soon as we get that equilibrium between you know what's supposed to come in the door and what we are going to be producing I am pretty encouraged that we might see those margins continue to improve because we did the hard part this quarter.
So I think as the flow gets more stabilized I think there is every opportunity to increase margins.
Okay.
Thank you.
And your next question will come from the line of Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Hello Vishal.
Hi.
This is actually [Indiscernible] on the line for Vishal thanks for taking my question.
So with most of the ethylene crackers likely haven’t or have been awarded by the end of 2014 which leads me to kind of look towards the derivative opportunities.
So I just want to get a sense of you know what you are seeing in the market you know order are you seeing great increase for feeds what's the timing any color would be very helpful?  Yeah.
Well I am not sure I think all the crackers is going to be awarded by 2014.
I think we kind of saw this is kind of a successive waves of opportunities over 2014 2015 perhaps in the 2016.
So we are seeing some kind of non-traditional investment exploring around the US but perhaps this isn’t on everyone's screen.
So I think it's going to be quite a bit of ethylene investment over the next three years.
We think you know I mentioned that we think there is perhaps four this year there is probably nine outside the – nine in the rest of the world or total in the rest of the world.
And of course our EPC and our conversion opportunities is probably strongest in the US and elsewhere.
So that is a market we are going to continue to work.
I think as this – as gas cheaper gas gets closer you got to think that cheaper feedstock is going to drive more downstream and more derivative more downs stream and more derivative investment and more projects downstream projects.
We haven’t seen a lot of that yet but certainly you can only assume that successful waves are going to drive that CapEx particularly in the United States and I think the other thing is we are seeing some very interesting perspective investors from all over the world and in Asia coming to United States to look at how they can get positioned for this stuff too.
So I think it's going to be very interesting market for all petrochemical downstream derivatives over the next few years.
That's helpful and then just switching over to fabrication service business it seems like world has slowed down a little bit.
So could you talk about what do you see in your pipeline how do you see growth trending over the next year or so? Well again we are for example probably largest union pipe fabrication pipe fabricator in United States.
We are probably one of the largest pipe fabricator period globally and that's what these jobs are going to take.
They are going to take a lot of capacity.
So we have not only our U.S.
jobs to draw on but certainly international jobs drawn.
So as you see the CapEx starting to ramp up and get closer to construction I think you are going to see certainly the work and the demand for those services increase even more.
So they are very few constraints to that.
It doesn’t take a lot of capital for us to expand our fabrication and capacities.
We have a number of alternatives in our plans now and certainly it's not an overwhelming CapEx requirement to expand by adding lay down by adding machines by doing that sort of thing.
So we are pretty confident we are positioned well.
I think the real growth longer term is going to come internationally.
Shaw in this business model had some very well placed plans and good good operations there.
I think we are going to take that model and look elsewhere in the world and see how we might position ourselves for other opportunities.
But I think the real opportunity for us in terms of growth is going to be again this North American energy CapEx.
Great.
Thank you.
Okay.
And your next question will come from the line of Martin W.
Malloy with Johnson Rice.
Hi Marty.
Good afternoon.
On the pipe fabrication segment what meaning would you say we are in terms of the awards of the piping work for the build out along the gulf coast and in conjunction with that there was a higher margin business for Shaw 20% plus gross profit margins and you are already doing over 11% how should we think about your margins going forward as we look out in the 2015 and 2016 is there a new range that would be appropriate? Remember our fabrication service is a combination of steel plate structures and our fabrication service upright fabrication right? So it’s a consolidated numbers between those two businesses.
But both doesn’t mean to say that we can’t continue to increase our margins.
I mean we are seeing tremendous opportunities in our steel plate business structure as well.
We are probably making a record number of spears which are higher margin vessels are higher margin tanks themselves.
I think 59 of them right now throughout the Unites States.
It’s just tremendous market.
So between now and the growth of fabric and the pipe fabrication there is no reason to think that margins can remain pretty high in that business.
What any know Ian I don’t know if you are talking any of quarters but but I think we are very early in the game very early in the game.
I think as this thing gets traction and we are doing a great job of covering the market even beyond our backlog.
I think we are very intent for making sure that we increase our position and get more and more done all of the CapEx that’s being invested in the United States.
We are not going to let this opportunity pass.
Okay and then just on the L&amp;G side did I hear correctly in the prepared comments did you say L Builin was a potentially key word second half this year?  Yes yes.
We’ve been doing the preliminary work in the fieldwork with Shale.
The jobs are little bit smaller in terms of capacities that we’ve seen but it’s a great job and we did the original re-gas.
So we are hopeful that we are going to be able to convert that this year.
Okay thank you very much.
Alright Marty take care.
The next question will come from the line of Jerry Redich with Goldman Sachs.
Hi Jerry.
Hi good evening Phil.
Good evening everyone.
Can you talk about how we should think about project timing on Golden Pass L&amp;G and also can you touch on how the Mozambique L&amp;G work is going? I guess there is some chatter about potentially that turning into a floating L&amp;G Project and we’d love to get your thoughts around that as well?  God that would be a terrible thing to happen but going to Golden Pass I think it’s moving forward.
We’ve seen signs very aggressive signs moving forward.
Should we be fortunate to be awarded that that would be a joint venture with our partners in Chiyoda.
So when you go back to Jamie’s question about capacity having these partnerships with people like Chiyoda and the engineering that gives us a lot of comfort level that is like our own comfort level but they can source a lot of textbook talent for these jobs and I think that’s it.
So I think that certainly you might hear something on it this year in terms of where that stands at Golden Pass.
As far as Mozambique the contractor list is continually being rationalized and looked at.
We feel pretty good about our overall positioning on that job we established a shed in Mozambique.
We are taking that job very very seriously with our joint venture group of Chiyoda and Saipem I think it's good strong team.
I have not heard I think in all these just as we saw on browse if you remember that one for job done in Australia we have heard some discussions around that but we have not done anything differently in our plan or modeling for the job and nor have anybody told us that they are changing their plans with some other approach.
So we are approaching this thing as previously described and again I think towards the end of the year and 2015 you are going to see some real traction on that job.
And Phil just to clarify that last point do you think you see a final investment decision or further reduction in the number of contractors? I think that it closes up to who they want to the team the selected team and I think once they have that and they will finalize the feed and tactical decisions around that job and then they will go towards final investment decision.
Okay and then in EC&amp;M you had a nice pick up and that revenue burn in the quarter.
I am wondering if you just talk about the project drivers how much of that was nuclear projects so what were other major drivers of the sequential increase? Yes part of that was nuclear it certainly had some major milestone we did make.
We are trying to pick up pace on the one still on premise so that was part of that.
We certainly have seen some acceleration on some of the Australian jobs we’re good performers and just overall progress on our projects I mean it's a big backlog I think of the $32 billion probably $20 billion or so resides in engineering construction maintenance.
So across the board they have been making the targets and progress has been good.
So it's not a matter of home runs on the revenue it's the matter of just good performance with a lot of doubles and triples.
Thank you very much.
Alright.
Thank you.
And we have reached the end of the allotted time for questions and answers.
Your final question today will come from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
The final question Steven.
Excellent.
Thank you for fitting me.
My pleasure.
It will be good one don't worry.
Follow-up on the labor discussion I mean it sounds like you are comfortable with your ability to get the labor you need and that you are not seeing a lot of inflation now.
But I guess just to be clear if labor inflation were to become double digits would you have the room and flexibility in your L&amp;G contracts to manage that and retain your profitability targets.
Yes we think we have estimated those pretty well based on what we see and what we see.
There is a lot of historical data where we have got balance of people working right now.
So we have got we’re positioned for a lot of that CapEx that we talked about I mean so we are around most of that.
So yes we have labor can be an issue.
Labor is not just as – it's not really just about overall rates but certainly the mix of productivity.
So our ability to get the right people not just the numbers of people but the right people is a reason we are focusing so hard on certainly identifying qualified skilled labor that 43 000 people that have applied to us checking out them and making sure we got the right labor.
So that's really important.
So its mix is important as certainly the absolute rate.
So we can affect that.
We can affect that the overall cost of direct labor.
We have said for a long time now we think we are better controlled there because we are going to direct higher rather than rely on the subcontractors and we’re continuing along that in that line and again we are working real hard on it.
So yes there could be I think whenever you get in the peak demand as we saw back in 4 through 7 we also watch the supply market.
Again carbon steel is maintaining its pricing we have seen little uptick in stainless but again those materials or those commodities which affect material pricing particularly when you get to buying your bulk materials that's when you might feel a pinch on that.
So we feel like we know that market pretty well and we have anticipated that.
So it's not just contract it's how you measure jobs.
So we think we are in pretty good shape of this.
Okay and then the last here the schedule on the nuclear projects lists to be a bit more extended than it was previously but I think you have got some protections in your contract for that.
Can you just maybe clarify what that contract or the project extension time frame means first CB&amp;I’s profitability? Well the profitability doesn’t change I think we are talking about the unit two on (inaudible) for example is late 2017 early 2018 and then there is lot of activity to go to get that unit up and running and then we have the second one.
But we feel pretty confident that we are going – it really doesn’t affect it.
If we have to re-baseline doing the schedule base line or re-estimating that just moves things to the right and anything like that would be on the back of new regulatory requirements of these projects.
Again I think the important thing the prism that I think people need to look through on these nuclear jobs is it's really about building the safest and most reliable nuclear projects in the world and that's what we are doing.
That always doesn’t lend itself to pass tracking projects but and the quantities haven’t changed much but certainly the pace is affected by it.
So it doesn’t really affect your profitability I guess.
And we are well protected in the contract very prescribed and if there are changes I mean the contract is very definitive in terms of who is entitled to what.
So if I am given the opportunity I would sign the same contract tomorrow on a new nuclear facility if given the opportunity.
Hopefully you will get that opportunity.
Thanks a lot.
I hope so too.
Thank you.
And now we’ve ended the allotted time for questions and answers.
I will turn the call back over to Mr.
Asherman for closing remarks.
Thank you Holly.
Well first of all let me thank everybody for participating on our call this afternoon.
As I said earlier we remain confident in our ability to do over revenue and earnings growth consistent with our expectations for 2014.
And convert new awards activity into long term shareholder growth.
We continue to be very optimistic about our markets and prospects and it’s shaping up to be another strong year.
We appreciate your interest in CB&amp;I and your confidence in our company.
As a reminder we are going to host our annual investor day in New York on November 10 and 11.
So please stay with the date and be on the lookout for additional information soon.
This concludes our call.
Thank you.
And once again we would like to thank you for your participation on today's CB&amp;I second quarter earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Holly and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the CB&amp;I Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before beginning today's call the company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company's press release and SEC filings.
While forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we report Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron's results for the third quarter of 2014.
With me today is our healthy Chief Financial Officer Ron Ballschmiede.
I'll provide a brief summary of the overall performance of the company followed by Ron who will discuss our financial results for the quarter.
But this is a great day.
I just returned this afternoon from the Cameron LNG groundbreaking ceremony in Hackberry Louisiana.
The ceremony was the official kickoff for construction of the initial 3 liquefaction trains with a nameplate capacity of approximately 13.5 million tons per annum of LNG.
I also plan to attend the groundbreaking for Freeport LNG in early November to start the construction of initial 2 trains.
So I'm happy to report to you we're off and running on these major projects.
Now before I get into the quarter I also want to update you on our outstanding safety performance for year-to-date.
We worked over 120 million hours around the world and have a lost time incident rate of only 0.03 which means that on literally hundreds of our sites shops labs and offices employing over 50 000 people we reported 13 cases where our employees or our subcontractors missed work due to an unsafe incident.
I'm also very proud that because of CB&amp;I's sustained safety performance I was recently elected to the Board of Directors of the National Safety Council which as you probably know addresses a broad range of safety issues that affect our everyday lives.
Now let's turn to the quarter.
New awards totaled $3 billion in the quarter and $13 billion year-to-date representing our highest level of new awards in a single year and with expectations that we can continue that run rate through the next quarter and begin 2015 with a strong backlog of work from all of our operating groups.
The mix of new work was predominately in the U.S.
which now represents over 75% of our backlog compared with 50% last year and less than 20% only 3 years ago.
More specifically significant awards during the quarter included front-end engineering and design for an LNG export terminal in North America additional defined scope work for our LNG export terminals on the Gulf Coast technology and engineering awards for polypropylene gasification units and on-purpose polypropylene in a variety of locations storage awards in the Middle East and Asia decommissioning and demolition work in North America and a variety of pipe fabrication contracts throughout the globe.
Now during the quarter we generated $3.4 billion in revenue up 13% year-over-year and earnings of $1.51 per diluted share up 35% from the third quarter 2013.
During the quarter net cash provided from operating activities was $25 million and our liquidity and access to financing are solid.
We entered the fourth quarter forecasted to achieve revenue and EPS consistent with market expectations for the year as well as significant improvements in operating cash and we look forward to a strong start to 2015.
Margins on operating income were up for the quarter with the 3 groups reporting well within our range of expectations for their respective businesses.
We did see some pressure on Fabrication Services business for the quarter due to an underperforming contract and some residual underutilization we've been experiencing this year.
But the unit still reported over 9% of operating margin and our expectation going forward is that this business is well positioned to produce operating margins in excess of 11% to 12% on future revenues.
Now on the other end of the scale Technology produced operating margins of nearly 34% and is on track to have another record year.
And given the volume of projects in our EPC&amp;M group we're very pleased with the nearly 7% of operating margin on our mix of power oil and gas and plant services projects are producing.
Environmental Solutions reported nearly 8.5% up from 4.9% last quarter a very good result in a very challenging market.
The results of the quarter and year-to-date point to the benefits of the scale and diversity we have in our business model and relative predictability of our earnings given the inherent risks of our industry.
Also our direct access to labor and ability to closely control the execution of large projects via self-performed or key project activities continue to be determinant factors in our overall competitiveness.
We've also been able to generate additional operating leverage of internal resources resulting in higher efficiencies productivities and an overall lower cost structure as evidenced by the 2.7% SG&amp;A reported in the quarter.
We expect to remain the S&amp;A in the low to mid-3% with our current structure but this quarter is a reflection of the recent consolidation of our overhead groups in the Woodlands in addition to the realization over $100 million of cost reduction in our operations over the past 18 months since the acquisition which is over and above the $30 million of immediate cost synergies we reported on Day 1 of the deal.
We're also currently progressing on a number of initiatives to continue leveraging the benefits of scale through our supply chain management optimization which focuses on realization of savings through focused management of the over $4 billion of spend on major capital projects and improved leverage on material for our fabrication plants.
Now while we're always working with fundamentals we are certainly tuned in to the macro impacts to our business particularly the geopolitical implications of various trouble spots around the world and of course the volatility of oil prices which may affect capital spending.
The Russian sanctions for example may affect our potential technology sales by under $10 million in licensing.
And as to the potential impact on our business from the volatility in oil prices we haven't had any cancellations of offshore projects or refinery upgrades.
And given our concentration on natural gas and petrochemical opportunities we believe that it's unlikely that oil prices will drop to levels that would affect shale basin production.
So we see that the near-term effects are negligible nor do we anticipate material impact in our current outlook for 2015.
Now let me briefly cover our operating groups.
Our Engineering Construction and Maintenance group continues to perform exceptionally well with new awards revenues and earnings.
For the quarter EC&amp;M new awards included additional work related to our large LNG export projects in the United States scope increases from current projects a number of FEED and pre-FEED awards and about $500 million of what we consider underpinning work.
The oil and gas end markets we serve are extremely active.
In LNG we continue strong activity for additional export terminals in North America where the abundance and low cost of natural gas continues to accentuate geographic price differentials and incentivize the export of LNG and natural gas liquids.
East Africa also continues to explore major developments relating to LNG exports with as most of you know Mozambique probably the most advanced in terms of project development and where we believe we have strong competitive positioning.
When it comes to petrochemicals ethane crackers are moving ahead in North America.
In Europe manufacturers in anticipation of new ethane capacity entering production in the U.S.
are looking to convert from Napa-based FEED to ethane FEEDs in order to remain competitive generating potential for new investments in these developments.
In the Caspian region we're currently tracking prospects in propane dehydrogenation units polypropylene and ethane crackers.
In the Middle East major investments are being evaluated by governments for further economic development and job creation for large refineries petrochemical projects and gas processing facilities in the horizon.
The competition for work there has been normalized in this market thanks to the return of bidding discipline from Korean contractors but normal is still highly competitive and contractual risk reduces our appetite for much of the work in that region beyond technology sales pipe fabrication contracts and storage facilities.
During the quarter we continued to make progress on our major projects.
As I mentioned we'll begin steady construction activities on Cameron in this quarter and also anticipate the full notes [ph] to proceed on Freeport in the coming weeks.
At Gorgon MEI our large mechanical erection and instrumentation LNG project in Australia progress towards peak activity remains steady.
Our large refinery expansion project in Colombia continues to advance and we anticipate achieving mechanical completion on the project early next year.
And the Ingleside ethylene cracker a project that has incorporated scope from each of our 4 operating groups is off to a great start.
Turning to Power.
Markets in the United States continued to show acceleration in the pace of gas-fired projects to replace coal plant retirements renewed interest in nuclear generation as well as nuclear decommissioning work.
Outside the United States we continue to see opportunities in new nuclear build-outs in a range of geographies but little near-term activity.
Last up [ph].
We recently announced a significant strategic agreement for NET Power our collaboration with Exelon Toshiba and 8 Rivers Capital.
As part of this agreement CB&amp;I will be a 1/3 partner and contribute the expertise to engineer procure construct and commission and test a 50-megawatt natural gas-fired electrical-generating demonstration plant.
Now this will be a first-of-a-kind demonstration plant to validate a new natural gas power system that produces 0 atmospheric emissions.
It represents a potential game-changing opportunity to comply with clean energy regulations.
Our nuclear projects continue to progress through the first units with current emphasis on concrete placements in anticipation of key module sets for the end of the year and the beginning of next year.
Earlier this week the CA05 module was safely placed inside the Vogtle Unit 3 containment vessel.
Now the CA05 module is a structural composite wall module inside the containment building that makes up walls that separate rooms in containment.
The installation of CA05 is a critical path activity as one of the stepping stones to setting the CA01 module early next year.
As the 2 licensees have publicly stated our respective teams are working to update cost projections and re-baseline schedule milestones to reflect the additional scope resulting from regulatory changes in the design.
We all continue to focus on nuclear safety and technical reliability as the absolute #1 priority in everything we do.
In our fossil power projects during the quarter we started engineering and procurement activities in IPL's Eagle Valley combined cycle turbine plant and successfully completed first fire on our 9-mile gas-fired plant.
Now last on EC&amp;M our plant services business continues to perform well with attractive opportunities tied to international expansions across end markets post-Fukushima nuclear modification and decommissioning work for nuclear retirements.
In Environmental Solutions this operating group had a very positive quarter across the board with strong new bookings revenue and earnings.
The operating group continues to generate cost savings from reorganization initiatives and integration efficiency efforts that are resulting in improved competitiveness and financial performance.
Targeted business development efforts are currently capitalizing on opportunities for services and products related to shale LNG capital projects environmental remediation associated with plant closures and asset retirements upgrades and expansions of aging infrastructure climate change infrastructure needs as well as energy efficiency services.
Now turning to Fabrication Services.
The group was awarded numerous fabrication and storage contracts primarily in the U.S.
and Middle East.
During the quarter we successfully produced the first priority spools [ph] manufactured in the Middle East to support the first modular erection of our gas processing project in Australia.
This milestone underscores the benefits of extending the reach of our piping business outside of North America.
We continue to invest in equipment improvements to our facilities to generate additional productivity gains and keep utilization high.
We also continue to adapt our products to supply areas of high growth with our cold and induction bending capabilities.
The efficiencies generated through pipe bending translate into savings in cutting fitting welding and inspection which provides tangible operational benefits for our projects and our clients.
At Steel Plate Structures we're seeing a good mix of higher-margin low-temperature and atmospheric storage opportunities in a range of markets and geographies including the Middle East North America and Asia Pacific.
We continue to experience high levels of proposal activity related to the export of natural gas liquids in the United States LNG storage and refining in the Middle East.
During the quarter our Technology group achieved record quarterly bookings of $387 million and we're optimistic that the group is poised to reach the milestone of $1 billion in new awards for the year excluding the growth generated by our equity venture with Chevron Lummus Global.
Worth noting is during the quarter we were awarded a number of heaters associated with previously awarded ethylene licenses which is typical of the 1- to 2-year lag between license and equipment award.
The opportunities for Technology remain strong.
The industrial transformation tied to shale development in the United States is creating new areas of opportunities from clients of upstream seeking to monetize advantaged feedstock.
Refiners are seeking reconfigurations gas processors are evaluating capacity growth and the steady rise of on-purpose technologies the drive to export NGLs and olefins derivatives and the shifting focus into higher octane fuels in transportation.
International opportunities for Technology remains strong with the Middle East increasing demand to refine heavier feedstock and increased focus on diversifying their product base and the desire to incentivize their economies.
In China we see incentives for our technology investments tied to domestic demand new capacity additions to substitute imports refining opportunities and increased interest in coal to chemicals technology.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ron to report the financial details of the third quarter.
Ron? Thanks Phil and good afternoon everyone.
I'm very happy to be here.
Let me take you through our strong financial performance for the quarter.
In order to focus on the ongoing company's operation -- operating performance during the quarter I will discuss our results excluding the integration-related costs as set forth in more detail in the earnings release.
Revenues for the third quarter was $3.4 billion an increase of $389 million or 13% over the third quarter of 2013.
The increase for the quarter was primarily due to net increases of our large cost reimbursable projects in the Asia Pacific region and Colombia and progress on our large nuclear projects all of which are within our Engineering Construction and Maintenance operating group or EC&amp;M.
We remain confident that we will achieve our previously announced full year revenue guidance of $12.6 billion to $13.2 billion.
Our gross profit for the quarter totaled $393 million versus $317 million in the comparable 2013 quarter and our gross margin improved to 11.6% from 10.6% for the respective periods.
These increases were primarily attributable to the impact of our higher-revenue volume higher-margin backlog integration savings and improved operating leverage.
I'll come back and discuss changes in our revenue and operating income by operating group in a moment.
Selling and administrative expenses decreased to $92.6 million from $93.7 million in the third quarter of 2013.
The decrease was primarily due to integration savings and lower stock-based compensation cost in the quarter compared -- partially offset by inflationary increases around the globe.
Our S&amp;A expense was 2.7% of revenue down 40 basis points from 3.1% in the third quarter of 2013.
Integration-related costs were $4.6 million or $0.03 per share for the third quarter of 2014 and were primarily related to facility consolidations personnel relocations and system integration costs.
Third quarter adjusted income from operations was $291 million or 8.6% of revenue compared to $207 million or 6.9% of revenue in the third quarter of 2013.
Our third quarter and year-to-date adjusted income tax rate was approximately 31.3% and 30.7% respectively.
We expect our full year adjusted tax rate to be consistent with our 2014 interim period rates.
The summation of all that resulted in the third quarter adjusted net income of $165 million or adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.51.
The inclusion of integration-related costs result in the third quarter GAAP earnings of $1.48 per diluted share reflecting a 3% share impact.
Adjusted EBITDA totaled $336 million or 9.9% of revenue compared to $259 million or 8.7% of revenue in the comparable 2013 period.
Now let me take you through the operating group's third quarter results.
Each of our group's third quarter 2014 results were consistent with or exceeded our expected annual range of operating results which we have previously discussed.
Phil spoke to our new awards and prospect activities so I'll provide some overall comments.
Our new awards for the third quarter totaled $3 billion compared to $2.5 billion for the comparable 2013.
And as Phil mentioned new awards totaled $13 billion for the first 3 quarters of 2014 representing a book-to-burn ratio of 135%.
Significant new awards in the third quarter included approximately $900 million of work scope which we will perform on our 2 U.S.
LNG export facility projects which are executing -- which we are executing through our proportionate lead consolidated joint ventures and growth on our large projects of approximately $610 million.
The balance of new awards reflects important underpinning work which is spread nicely between our operating groups and project types around the world.
Our September 30 2014 backlog totaled $30.7 billion up from $24.5 billion at September 30 2013.
EC&amp;M's third quarter revenue totaled $2.4 billion an increase of $463 million or 24% over the third quarter of 2013.
Our 2014 results primarily benefited from net increased revenue from our large cost reimbursable projects and our U.S.
nuclear projects.
EC&amp;M's third quarter revenue from its 2 U.S.
nuclear projects totaled $485 million.
As Phil discussed earlier the extension -- the recent extensions of schedule on our nuclear projects has resulted in an increase in total estimated costs.
CB&amp;I recorded additional change order claims in the third quarter totaling $200 million relating to the cost impact for the South Carolina nuclear project.
We believe the remaining cost impacts resulting from the U.S.
nuclear project extension of schedules are recoverable under our contractual arrangements.
These developments did not have a significant impact on our third quarter results.
Income from operations total $164 million or 6.9% of revenue in the third quarter of 2014 compared to $86 million or 4.5% in 2013.
Our third quarter 2014 results benefited from higher revenue volume a shift to higher-margin work mix of our large cost reimbursable projects and higher margin in our remaining backlog.
Also benefiting the quarter were integration savings and leverage from our operating costs.
Fabrication Services reported third quarter 2014 revenue of $631 million a decrease of $76 million from 2013.
The decrease in the quarter was primarily due to lower storage tank work in the Asia Pacific regions specifically the LNG tanks -- completing some of the LNG tanks in and around Australia.
Operating income totaled $58 million or 9.1% of revenue compared to $72 million or 10.2% of revenue in 2013.
Our third quarter results were primarily impacted by a lower revenue volume and cost increases of $12 million on a pipe fabrication project.
This pipe project was very unusual in that it was booked as a new award back in 2010 and was on hold by the customer until 2014.
Technology had a strong quarter reporting revenue of $145 million compared to $156 million in the third quarter of '13 and third quarter operating earnings grew [ph] $49 million benefited from a higher margin mix of licensing engineered products and catalyst activities.
Finally environmental solutions reported revenue of $234 million an increase of $13 million over the third quarter of 2013.
Income from operations from the third quarter of 2014 was $20 million or 8.4% of revenues compared to $4 million in the corresponding quarter of 2013.
The improvement in both absolute dollars and operating margin reflects cost reduction initiatives implemented over the past year a higher margin mix of work and favorable adjustments on projects completed during the quarter.
Environmental Solutions continues -- results continued to be impacted by the ongoing uncertainty with respect to the U.S.
federal government funding and prioritization.
Now a few comments on our balance sheet and cash flow.
Our balance sheet and liquidity remains strong.
At the end of September 2014 our total shareholder value was $2.9 billion and our cash balance was $271 million.
Further our total debt declined by $43 million during the quarter.
We continue to enjoy significant support from our credit markets with $2.7 billion of credit availability to support new awards growth and strategic opportunities.
During the quarter we invested $21 million in capital expenditures serviced $43 million of debt principal and paid $11 million of common stock dividends.
We also generated $25 million of operating cash flow which was a net result of cash flow from earnings primarily offset by changes in our contract capital.
Contract capital reflects the combined balances of our receivables inventory contracts in progress and accounts payable.
At September 30 2014 our contract capital stood at a negative $491 million compared to a negative $811 million at June 30 2014 a change of $320 million in the quarter.
This change during the third quarter was primarily related to our U.S.
nuclear projects which experienced a decline of $334 million excluding the noncash margin fair value liability.
This decrease reflects the net utilization of the advanced billing position on these projects.
Importantly our third quarter cash flow from operating activities excluding the U.S.
nuclear projects totaled in excess of $300 million in the third quarter representing a solid cash flow quarter for the remainder of the business.
We expect this positive cash flow trend to continue in the fourth quarter and expect the cash flow usage from our U.S.
nuclear projects to be significantly improved in the fourth quarter.
Accordingly we expect our cash flows from operating activities to be in excess of our earnings in the fourth quarter of 2014.
With that I'll turn it back to Phil.
Thank you Ron and let's open the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> First question is I think relative to your government business and the fabrication side how -- looking out maybe fourth quarter in 2015 should we see better volume and revenue improvement in the pipe and fab side? And on the government work it seems like ships [ph] have done a really good job on the cost side.
How sustainable x some of the closeout earnings you've booked in the quarter is that as we start to look out to 2015 around the [ph] operating income margin side on the government? Yes I think we have a positive outlook for the government side.
We shouldn't see any retreat from current levels so I think that run rate should continue into the fourth quarter.
We don't see anything that would tell us otherwise.
Fabrication continues to improve.
Like I said we're very optimistic by those margins to continue.
Probably by first quarter of 2015 we expect those to be up significantly.
But the workload is increasing steadily.
The international work is producing some very good results and we expect that business to continue to grow accordingly.
So we're very optimistic with what we see going into the next year.
Research Division</strong> Then my follow-up is Ron I assume you'll be going over this in November in New York but as you look -- and indicated on the cash flows in the fourth quarter and [indiscernible] income given the bookings you foresee and the capital usage can those trends translate into some positive cash flow over net income as we move into 2015? Yes.
Certainly I want to mention that the $300 million plus generated by the base business -- did not include any significant down payment so it's the good old way to earn it the hard way.
But importantly we still have -- or are expecting a very significant cash flow in the fourth quarter.
We'll talk about 2015 in a couple of weeks at the Investor Day but we would expect the cash flows required by the nuclear things to flatten out a little bit and continue to have strong cash flows for the balance of the business.
Mike if I could add let's put a little color around that.
There's a lot of focus obviously on the nuclear jobs.
But keep in mind up until this quarter it was probably less than 10% of our revenue coming from EPC.
And then as a percentage of the total that will probably be where it will be.
So the news in that is improving cash flows the rest of -- significant improvement in cash flows from the rest of our operations.
Now we had during the course of the year we've had some major contracts that are completing.
And with that we have been able to satisfy some of the account receivables that we needed to collect on those.
And overall the renewed rigor on our receivables around the world and we've got some pretty good volumes going out there with some of the large jobs.
So some of that was receivables.
Some of that was cleaning up some of our outstanding charges on some major jobs.
And then the improvements will be what we see going into next year with down payments and continuing the rigor on cash management.
And the next question will come from the line of Rob Norfleet with Alembic Global Advisors.
A quick question.
Ron you had mentioned obviously the improvements that we're seeing in terms of why margins appear better in EC&amp;M 6.9% this quarter.
Can you discuss were there any positive changes in estimated project margins during the quarter like we saw in Q2 that positively impacted margins? No they pretty much netted out.
That's the goal every quarter and it did certainly in the third quarter.
What we're seeing is as we start finishing some of these -- those large reimbursable work that were taken back in 2009 or so and of course with lower risk of lower returns so we're starting to see the replacement of those lower-margin that lower-margin backlog with some of the higher-margin both cost-reimbursable work that we're doing and so of this lump-sum activity in the United States.
So I would expect to be able to sustain be in the upper end of the range that we talked about.
And I would have the same comments across the board.
Each of the operating groups should be in the upper end of the range we've historically talked about on a kind of a normal run rate annual basis.
Okay perfect.
And I know you went through a lot of numbers earlier on contract capital.
But at the end of this quarter what was the fair value liability adjustment for the nuclear [ph] contracts? Well let me provide you with some year-to-date numbers for each of our noncash income and noncash expense relating to the acquisition because although we spend a lot of time with our stakeholders talking about that let me just run through that.
The only significant noncash purchase accounting income relates to the contract margin fair value which for the year -- for the 9 months totaled $95 million pretax about $35 million in the third quarter.
But importantly moving to noncash charges that came out of the deal purchase accounting and the Shaw acquisition purchase accounting related intangible amortization and property step-up totaled approximately $43 million.
Our Shaw-related stock-based compensation was approximately $9 million.
And lastly and very important while we provide Shaw-related book tax expense in our reported results the Shaw-related acquired income tax attributes result in GAAP tax expense in excess of cash taxes of approximately $50 million.
That's just the Shaw impact.
We have similar characteristics from the other parts of our tax around the world.
So in summary our quarter and year-to-date acquisition-related noncash expenses exceed our related noncash income after you adjusted for this income tax impact.
Perfect.
That was very helpful.
And just last question.
Phil can you just give us a little bit of an update on obviously you talked a little bit about the cost overruns on the nuclear contracts in Q3 what we accrued for that.
But obviously we continue to hear some issues coming out of Lake Charles.
I mean are we still on schedule in terms of delivering modules? And are they still utilizing that facility? And can you just give us any commentary around the dialogue that you're having with trying to basically get some resolution to these cost overruns and who's going to bear the brunt of that? Yes let's address the terminology first.
There is additional cost that will be on that project.
Now that cost relates to the additional design and scope changes on the project the new design for the shield build in front of us and the extension of schedule as a result of those design changes.
So that is cost of the work.
So the contractual arrangement there it has to be demonstrated obviously and we're going through that process now of why the projects will have additional cost.
So it's cost of the work that's been designed so that in my mind that's a little bit different from cost overruns.
So we've maintained that our contractual position is very strong.
Remember that the guarantor [ph] of this project is the technology provider Toshiba who has the delivery arm through Westinghouse.
We are the fabricator and constructor and when we get a change in design we are entitled to recovery under the contract right? But we'll go through that.
The important thing is that we're working very diligently with both owners to re-baseline the schedule and we're working hard on that.
And of course that will require additional cost.
So when we look out in the future we're looking at probably from the last baseline schedule which was back in 2012.
Our date that we're focusing on is obviously the COD substantial completion date for the owners.
But in essence our work is pretty much wrapped up when you get the fuel load and the fuel load from the original schedule at least the schedule back in 2012 there's probably a good 12 months of additional time from the schedule.
Now as far as Lake Charles there's been a lot of discussion around that.
Keep in mind that all the modules are pretty much on track.
We'll be basically done in Lake Charles as far as the module production early in the year probably by April time frame.
There's some large modules that are being produced by Toshiba for the second installation which are certainly on schedule.
But except for some shield wall fabrication for the project Lake Charles will essentially be out of the picture by early of next year.
So all those things are progressing well.
We've hit some great milestones.
We expect certainly our cash position to continue to improve through renegotiation of past change orders as well as resetting the milestones going forward and getting that back [ph].
So we're very positive about it.
And I think again I'll get back to what I always say about these things.
They're going to be safe and they're going to be reliable and I think that's what everybody wants.
Your next question will come from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Just looking -- I'm trying to look forward to some of the factors that might impact cash flows as you look out into '15.
I guess there will still be some runoff of the advanced payments on the nuclear units.
If I just take the consensus operating income out there of about $1.1 billion and assume cash taxes of about $325 million and CapEx of $100 million it appears that you all should generate some significant operating cash flow next year.
Is there anything I'm missing in terms of factors that I should consider? No I think those are the key things.
And you're right.
I'll call it cash liability for the nuclear projects totals just under $500 million at this point in time.
And as Phil mentioned we have multiple years to go.
And while it won't come down pro rata we're certainly over the hump on essentially using the advance that we were fortunate enough to have on our balance sheet when we acquired them.
And at some point in time that will be more breakeven than we've experienced in the last 6 or 7 quarters.
And Marty I think we're going to be in a position in November at Investor Day to talk about priorities for cash going into 2015 and beyond so we're formulating that plan now and we'll be better prepared to talk to you at that point.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the new order side Elba Island is that still expected to come this year? I think you mentioned on the last call there could be one ethane cracker booking? Well I have to check and see if I was that explicit Marty but you're tuned into the market.
We could in fact -- it depends on everything [ph] -- timing with the owners but that job is progressing well.
So if the owners gets comfortable with the design and the cost that could happen.
We're somewhat optimistic.
Certainly there is more cracker work out there that we think has a good opportunity to get awarded and there's some power work out there that we haven't talked about that we're hoping we'll book this year.
So our expectations although we're not guiding to new awards we talked about some numbers at the beginning of the year.
So if you took out that run rate we think we're in pretty good shape to hit those targets by the end of the year.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I look forward to hearing more in November.
And your next question will come from the line of Jamie Cook with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess just 2 quarters unless I missed it in the prepared remarks I don't think you narrowed the range of your guidance for '14 on EPS.
Did you? No.
What we said is we expect to hit the expectations -- the consensus numbers that we see in the market.
Research Division</strong> So I guess my point is based on your guide there's just -- I mean that's a big guide -- that's a lot of variance with only one quarter left to go.
So why the variance? Or you're just saying we feel comfortable with the consensus.
I just want to make sure I'm not missing anything.
Yes well you're reading it right Jamie.
We think the market's reading us very well.
We look at the consensus numbers and we feel like we're in pretty good shape to hit those expectations both on EPS and revenue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just my 2 other questions.
Sorry to go back to the nuke project you get [ph] and I appreciate the color both you Phil and Ron gave.
But do you have any updated -- it's a tough question to ask but sort of timing on resolution? Do you think you'll have some sort of resolution with the customer by the end of next year? Or do you think this drags out? And then...
Are you talking about the claim with Vogtle? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
Research Division</strong> And then my last question is again I asked this last quarter but your stock's come down even more.
With both you and Ron on the phone how are you thinking about capital allocation or share repurchase just given how much your stock has declined and to provide more confidence -- in the market confidence in what you view as a longer-term earnings power of your company? Yes well let me mention just the nukes and the claim.
When we diligenced that portion of the acquisition it was our view at the time and what we were hearing from all the stakeholders was that resolution of that claim was fairly imminent.
A lot of changes since then in some management on some of partners associated with that different views on that.
So we're not hopeful that that's going to be resolved by the end of the year at least we don't know.
Westinghouse has an obligation to lead that discussion with Southern because they are dealing with the regulatory design changes.
But we're not waiting for that.
We're in process of talking to both our consortium partners as well as Southern about improving our cash flows by getting resolution on some of these changes that we're entitled to under the contract irrespective of this claim.
So we're going to move ahead on that and hopefully this thing can get some more discussion going forward as we progress through the year but we're not waiting on it.
As far as the priorities we think about repurchasing stock all the time.
We're looking at some ways to look at our portfolio as far as perhaps pruning some assets getting some proceeds managing cash.
But that's going to be a high priority going into next year.
We feel that we're going to be in a good position for next year to look at share repurchases and we'll be in a better position in November when we talk to you about how we're going to prioritize and perhaps set some targets.
But certainly that would be at the top of the list in terms of priorities for cash going into the next year.
And your next question will come from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So Phil just going back to bookings for a second.
You had previously talked about $15 billion in bookings this year as again not your guidance but what you felt comfortable with.
And it looks like you're trending a little higher than that through 3 quarters.
So maybe you can talk about have you booked a little more than you expected this year? And can you talk about what end markets you've performed better in if you have? Or is this just this extra scope that you mentioned on some of the projects? And then can you talk about your confidence level to grow backlog going forward over the next year or so and/or at least maintain bookings momentum because we know obviously that sales are going to continue to increase? Yes.
I think we talked about when we talked about specific targets I think that was around the first quarter or so and probably what has changed well a lot -- what didn't change is we met those expectations on the projects that we were forecasting.
Probably the differential Andy is as you said there were some changes in the scope on some of these LNG jobs that were just getting started.
So under the contracts those we're allowed to take those in as additional bookings.
And those were significant not necessarily as a percentage of the total spend for those projects but certainly in the sense of just absolute dollars for new awards.
We also did very well on the underpinning work.
Across the board our Technology group I think you heard us say that that could reach $1 billion in new awards this year.
So those things were better than expectations.
So we're seeing some good traction and I think as we go into next year we feel very good that if timing is our friend for the end of the year we can book at least to the levels that we discussed and perhaps a little more with good strong backlog going into next year and continue that growth because we still see a lot of opportunities in front of us all through the United States.
There's tremendous opportunities in Canada still in front of us.
There's LNG work still in front of us throughout those regions.
And I think we're going to start looking -- and then we've got East Africa and Tanzania and Mozambique.
Hopefully those will be at a place where we can talk about it in the first half next year.
So we're pretty optimistic about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Ron just your guidance on 4Q cash flow.
We assume that it will come from LNG down payments to some extent.
And then maybe you can talk about milestone cash on the nuclear projects.
Do you expect that -- to start getting some of that now over the next few quarters? And have you gotten any yet on the milestone side? Well let's see.
Let's start with the fourth quarter.
Certainly a significant element of that will be continued performance for -- I mean you have to break it into 2 pieces right: the nuclear work and the advanced burn-off there and everything else.
And certainly we would expect at least probably hopefully something better than we had on the -- than everything but nuclear in the fourth quarter.
And as I mentioned we will see a lower amount of nuclear utilization of the advance in the fourth quarter.
We always have collected on milestones.
We have some in every quarter on the nuclear projects.
And at some point in time those will turn around.
But as Phil mentioned one of the efforts that we're going through with this change in schedule will be to reset milestones to match that schedule.
And I think that's probably the time to do that because certainly we have been unable to move those heretofore since we acquired Shaw anyway.
So I think we'll have to wait on the 2015 cash flow until we -- specifically until we make some progress on that one.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So Ron to be clear with Cameron and Freeport that is in or that is not in 4Q in your expectations? We would expect those in Q4 yes.
And I always want to warn people it's really not just down payments it's front-end payments on these projects because we're out committing for soon we'll get [indiscernible] to proceed and turning dirt today at Cameron probably a good step.
We're out committing for the POs [ph] and otherwise.
And if it's our obligation then we want to get the cash in our pockets to cover that obligation.
So it's really the first front part of these jobs not just the initial billing of the down payment which is sometimes the way it is.
Otherwise it's upfront payments and you can assume that those upfront payments exceed spend in the first 50% of these big hybrid lump-sum jobs.
So it will feed us for quite a while.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And so just going back to one thing you said around the Technology awards.
Does that give you confidence that you can continue a double-digit growth in Technology because it's been a good winner for you here over the last couple of years? Yes.
There's no reason not to believe that Andy.
As we see the opportunities around the world we can provide Technology in places that we may not provide other EPC services or even perhaps Steel Plate Structures at those kind of margins.
But I think what our Technology group has really done well is to grow their business through a variety of ways whether it'd be catalysts whether it be...
Engineering products.
Engineering products which has done very well and hitting that midstream market.
So they've been very creative and expanding their business well beyond just our ability to sell licensing and basic engineering.
And then the joint venture with Chevron is just doing tremendously well.
So all that is very good.
So we continue to capitalize on those things and we'll grow that business.
And if we see an opportunity to invest that we think that's best return for our shareholders' capital we will do that.
But we expect that trend to continue.
And your next question will come from the line of John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Two things.
First of all one sort of specific.
The charges or the provisions you mentioned in the fabrication segment in the third quarter on the bad project how much was that? $12 million almost 2% of our operating income to Phil's earlier point.
Research Division</strong> And Ron you're comfortable that's -- or Phil that that's all cleaned up now? Yes it's pretty well mitigated.
It was an old project that actually we didn't -- and Shaw actually wrote pretty good contracts.
This one they didn't.
And when they had an opportunity to come back and start the project up it wasn't a very good contract in terms of escalators those type of things.
But we're getting around it and we've identified the cost and we don't think you'll hear about it again.
Research Division</strong> And then the second question I've got is I guess a little more for your thoughts Phil or from your people.
With oil prices coming down some 20% you've been through these cycles before.
How long do you think it takes customers to sort of readjust expectations? And I mean is there a pause in terms of taking a pencil to projects again? And how long does it take for the market to kind of settle out on this? Well certainly we've all seen that.
We saw that in '09.
It was probably the most dramatic pause that we've seen in this business in a long time.
Research Division</strong> But that was a more severe drop.
That was very severe.
I think in just the normal roller coaster of oil prices first of all the point I wanted to make is that I think we're pretty well hedged against that in terms of our concentration on the markets that we're in.
But we tend to be a little bit countercyclical even with the roller coaster of prices because the work we're doing is obviously capital that's already been committed.
The only I think type of project that we see has immediate impact on that we have in the past with some of these oil prices if they look like they're going to be sustained for a while tends to be in the oil sands because of the operating overhead that those plants have.
We saw that the last time I think the oil price dropped for some period of time.
The oil sands was an immediate impact some of the oil sands.
Now owners like Imperial Oil Exxon they have scenarios going well out into the future.
They can -- and Shell they continue to invest and invest in capital going forward.
So it really just depends.
I think if we had any of our backlog having any exposure could be things like offshore engineering or perhaps refinery expansions perhaps in some places but that's not a large part of our backlog.
So we've looked at that.
We've seen there's been a little exposure right now with the volatility in the oil prices.
So we'll continue to monitor it very closely of course.
Your next question will come from the line of Chase Jacobson with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could talk about the integration cost a little bit.
It's not a huge amount at this point but is that going to continue going here for the future? It's been 1.5 years since the acquisition.
I think our objective is to call it quits at the end of the year not quits with the actions but I don't think we'll have a run rate that will be big enough to break out separately in 2015.
So we recently finished our new building here in the Woodlands and completed the consolidation in the third quarter.
We've got a couple of more things we want to accomplish in the fourth quarter.
But into '15 we'll drop back to just talking about GAAP numbers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The other thing that I was just curious on was on the scope changes that you've been talking about.
Can you give any detail as to what that was actually related to on those projects? Does it have to do with changes in scope between the JV partners? Or was it a part of the contract where the cost went up and you were able to take that earlier? Well yes.
This has been a continuing work on all the front end and as we continue to work and develop design certainly the estimates and schedules are adjusted continuously all the way up to final approvals.
And in those cases some of those costs because of some of the front-end delay of these projects then we had to go back and re-estimate what that additional time was going to cost the owner going forward.
And a lot of that was that kind of work.
So no major change.
There wasn't any change in terms of equipment configuration or any of those types of things.
It was really just escalation of some time that we had to add to the price.
And when you think about it the customer contract had that update.
The balance of it is where we're doing the scope by ourselves think about pipe and we're supplying pipe to the venture.
That's an award for CB&amp;I and that would be an example of what we're calling some of these scope increases.
You have that same thing with some of the site prep that we're doing in our Environmental group or even some Steel Plate Structure work et cetera et cetera so that's what that is: CBI's specific scope being provided to the venture.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess just the last thing.
In terms of overall demand in your markets Phil you're still pretty optimistic here.
And I don't expect guidance for next year.
But just curious as if you think the mix the geographic mix will shift back to more international or if it's still going to be pretty North American heavy as we go over the next -- into next year.
You know if you look at our -- you've really got to look at the individual components of our business.
If you look at Technology Fabrication Services Steel Plate Structures that will continue to have a broad international footprint.
In fact we plan to expand that footprint for those businesses going into next year.
If you look at engineering and construction work however we see the concentration of that work will certainly be around North America.
The other -- and then of course East Africa.
So if I had to look at the 3 major chunks for engineering and construction work the continuing work in Australia that we're finishing we've got backlog there for the next several years; East Africa Tanzania Mozambique; and then a very interesting market in the United States Canada.
And we're looking very seriously at how Mexico is developing too because we think that's going to be a very interesting market in the next couple of years.
And that's how we kind of see deployment of our resources.
And we do have time for one final question.
Your final question will come from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> This is Cleve Rueckert on for Steve.
Phil you touched on it earlier.
We're just wondering as these ethylene crackers progress what's the opportunity for derivative plants? And what does that mean for CB&amp;I? Yes.
It's a very good question because we think you've got the question about sustainable backlog and demand and going into -- we look at these curves going as you do into 20 well in excess of 20 25.
The really interesting question with this abundant energy that we have seen is what happens after in terms of the continuing investment in more derivatives larger infrastructure to support that and then large scale manufacture beyond that? I think that's a very interesting question that we're going to be looking at over the next couple of years as we see these energy sources and this pricing rationalize over the next few years.
So I don't have an answer for you but I think it's something that we're going to be watching very carefully making sure that our talent pool is lined up with those new opportunities and certainly -- and structure our market approach that way too.
So I think it's a great question.
I think it's yet to be determined but I think it's going to drive that way.
Research Division</strong> Would you agree that that's the next big opportunity in chemicals in North America? My opinion is I would agree with that because I guess I'm old enough to remember the last cycle of those projects back in the late '70s and '80s and those were huge CapEx huge investments and I think there's a -- I mean why wouldn't you do that with the price of feedstock? And then with those derivatives and that pricing why wouldn't that drive large-scale manufacturing? So I think as far as the economic benefits of what we're seeing now in the production of these new energy resources I think the future is very bright.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just looking at your current backlog when do you see peak construction I guess particularly in EC&amp;M on what you have currently? We think that's going to occur -- it's not a peak in terms of looking like a peak.
It's more of a plateau which we think is going to be probably around 2016 through 2018 at some pretty healthy levels.
But we think it's going to plateau there.
Then depending what happens with the power market and some of the others we may see a bit of a fall-off.
But we think we see our numbers pretty healthy through that time frame.
And that will conclude our question-and-answer portion of today's call.
I'll turn the conference back over to our speakers for closing remarks.
Thanks.
I don't really have any closing remarks.
I just look forward to seeing all of you at the Investor Day next month and with that we thank you for your time and attention.
Once again we'd like to thank you for your participation on today's CB&amp;I Third Quarter Earnings Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Holly and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the CB&amp;I Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before beginning today's call the company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company's press release and SEC filings.
While forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Thank you.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we report Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron's results for the fourth quarter and full year 2014.
With me today is CB&amp;I’s Chief Financial Officer Ron Ballschmiede who will discuss the company’s overall financial performance.
Before we discuss our results for the year I’d like to highlight our performance in safety which is a key leading indicator of performance and a central part of our direct hire project delivery model.
In 2014 our employees maintained a lost time incident rate of 0.03 for more than 160 million work hours.
This equals just one lost time incident for every 6.2 million hours worked which is well above industry benchmarks for best practices and with a stated goal of zero injuries are possible.
In acknowledgement of our performance we received several recognitions from leading industry associations during the year such as the construction industry’s safety excellence award in 2014 from the Construction Users Roundtable and the 2015 Green Cross for Safety Award by the National Safety Council.
We’re the first company in our industry to receive the National Safety Council award an important recognition considering the hazardive nature of our work and the challenging locations we work in all around the world.
Congratulations to all the men and women in our company who made this tremendous achievement possible.
Improve the great safety performance usually means great operational performance CB&amp;I delivered both for the quarter and the year.
We exceeded expectations for revenue and earnings while maintaining record level backlog thanks to an impressive $16 billion in new awards.
Our revenue for the year approached $13 billion representing a 17% increase from the prior year.
Our income from operations exceeded $1 billion and increased over 30% from 2013 adjusted not only for the remainder of transaction costs from the Shaw acquisition.
It reflects our consistency of execution the benefits of our vertical integration and our cost discipline.
Our SG&amp;A was under 3% for the quarter and just over 3% for the year reflecting over $100 million in savings since the February 2013 close of the Shaw acquisition.
Further we expect to achieve additional cost reductions of approximately $50 million for 2015.
New bookings of $16 billion for the year is a CB&amp;I record and an increase of about 33% over 2013.
Noteworthy awards included the three train Cameron LNG project in the Gulf Coast combined cycle gas-powered plants in the United States long term nuclear maintenance contracts as well as engineering work for refineries in the Middle East feed contract for a variety of key projects including a proposed LNG export project in the US a gas field development in Algeria an oil refinery in Russia and numerous technology contracts that will use our patented petrochemical refining and gas processing technologies and/or engineered products.
On our last point it’s worth highlighting that our technology operating group had another year of outstanding results with over $1 billion in new awards over $600 million in revenue and more than $187 million in operating income for the year.
Since the acquisition of Lummus in 2007 we’ve strengthened our portfolio of technologies by deploying research and development to improve existing technologies sourcing new products via joint ventures entering several strategic partnerships and commercialization agreements and through small complementary acquisitions.
Turning to our operations and backlog our backlog remains at record levels.
We’ve not experienced nor do we expect any cancellations from current contracts.
Less than 5% of our business is exposed to upstream end markets and we see very little correlation between volatile oil prices and material new bookings for the year.
We do however acknowledge the potential risk of delay on some engineering prospects and technology awards that could defer decisions until commodity prices stabilize.
That potential risk for us resides entirely in technology globally upstream projects in our European offices and some tank business in the Middle East but our LNG petrochemical power opportunities plant services environmental solutions and pipe fabrication businesses are essentially unaffected.
However we’ve addressed that incremental risk in our guidance by resetting the lower end of revenue to $14.4 billion keeping the high end at $15.2 billion and have adjusted the range for earnings per share to $5.55 to $6.05 for the year.
We’re confident that backlog will still grow in 2015 supported by additional new awards that should at least equal this year cash flows that should conservatively equate to earnings and margins on income from operations approaching 8%.
During the year we saw groundbreaking for three large projects in the Gulf Coast the ethylene cracker project for Occidental in Ingleside Texas is performing ahead of schedule.
As we reported on prior occasion this project integrates the full suite of project delivery offerings including technology pipe fabrication storage and engineering procurement and construction.
And we think the project is reflective of the benefits of our integration delivery model to all of our clients.
Our LNG export terminal developments in the Gulf Coast Cameron LNG and Freeport LNG continue at initial stages of development with making progress on engineering and procurement activities as well as early construction activities.
We also continued to work with Freeport LNG and our partners to evaluate the expansion of their current plans to incorporate a third liquefaction train to their plan.
Construction in our nuclear power projects of V.C.
Summer in South Carolina and Vogtle in Georgia continue to significantly progress in the field.
In 2014 both projects marked significant accomplishments including the placement of key structural modules such as the CA820 and the CAO5 at V.C.
Summer Unit II and the completion of the 601-foot Vogtle Unit III cooling tower.
We look forward to accomplishing multiple key milestones this year and our focus remains on construction of these nuclear power plants in a safe reliable and cost efficient manner.
We realize that our reluctance to publicly discuss contractual issues with these nuclear projects is frustrating to many a few.
But in response to the flurry of comments made recently by the licensees to their analysts and to the media we find the negative [indiscernible] perpetuate about these important projects disappointing and in some cases misleading.
CB&amp;I’s role is to construct the projects as designed and we are working diligently with the technology provider and the licensees to help mitigate this time and cost that will be incurred as a result of additional changes in scope.
In virtually every case CB&amp;I has contractual entitlement for these costs regardless of the determination between Westinghouse and the licensees on the reasons for the design changes.
And we fully expect that the projects will continue under a re-baseline schedule.
Both projects made tremendous physical progress this past year the important CAO1 modules are on track to be set soon [indiscernible] module fabrication yard will be substantially compete with the rollout of project by April after delivering over 400 modules to this site.
And as referred to recently in the media by Westinghouse the shield buildings are on the critical path of both sides and are driving additional cost and schedule changes.
Now with these contemplated changes CB&amp;I’s construction teams are adequately staffed to both sites with 80% of the materials and equipment purchased and we are extremely confident that both sites will meet the revised completion dates.
Several major projects were successfully completed this year with several acknowledgements to the 9 mile combined cycle plant for Entergy in Louisiana and two major projects for ExxonMobil the gas conditioning plant in the highlands of Papua New Guinea and the crew expansion program in Alberta Canada.
And despite the completion of these major projects our headcount stands at almost 54 000 people and we’re still actively recruiting professional and project staff primarily in the Gulf Coast for LNG and petrochemical projects and for new power work throughout the US.
And as been widely reprinted the number of oil producers and oil service companies have announced personnel reductions in the region.
These reductions represent potential new sources of technical and craft labor for our projects and we have recruiting activities named and attracting those with the right skill sets.
We also continue to partner with community colleges and technical training centers in the area in order to develop the craft disciplines most in demand for our projects.
We rely on our current accessible labor pool which topped at 145 000 direct craft project management and shop and maintenance personnel to source the incremental demand stability infrastructure we expect to be involved with in the US.
Additionally I am proud to tell you that our veteran recruiting program since its initiation has attracted 2000 new hires of those who have served our country.
A word on capital allocation priorities that we addressed at our investor conference in November.
First we are very pleased this strong cash flows from operations has allowed us additional flexibility to meet our objective of returning value to our shareholders through a more aggressive share repurchase plan for the next year and into 2016.
At a minimum we expect to be able to reduce our outstanding shares by at least 10% to eliminate the shares we issued at the time of the Shaw acquisition plus additional reductions in share count should we divest assets whose proceeds would also be deployed to share repurchases.
We still remain in a reasonable cushion is cash balances for operations continue to service our debt as planned keep enough dry powder for technology or other tuck-in acquisitions that can demonstrate double-digit returns and essentially drive a continued strong balance sheet that will give us the flexibility to grow the company strategically when the opportunity presents itself.
Now I’d turn the call over to Ron to review the financial details of our fourth-quarter and full-year results.
Ron? Thanks Phil and good afternoon everyone.
Let me take you through our strong financial performance for the quarter and the year.
In order to focus on the ongoing company's operating performance during the quarter I will discuss our results excluding the integration-related costs as set forth in more detail in the earnings release.
Revenue for the fourth quarter was $3.4 billion an increase of $371 million or 12% over the fourth quarter of 2013.
The increase for the quarter was primarily due to net increases on our large cost reimbursable projects in the Asia Pacific region and Colombia progress on our large nuclear projects and expansion of our plant maintenance work all of which are within our engineering construction and maintenance operating group or EC&amp;M.
Our full year revenue totaled $13 billion an increase of $1.9 billion or 17% over 2013 again primarily driven by the EC&amp;M operating group.
As you saw in our earnings release we marginally updated our 2015 revenue guidance to $14.4 billion to $15.2 billion an indicative increase of 14% over our 2014 revenue based on the midpoint of our guidance.
This revenue growth reflects the continued activity and ramp up of several large US projects in our backlog and the increase in our year over year opening backlog.
Our 2015 revenue burn is expected to be in the 35% to 40% range which is similar to 2014.
This backlog burn rate reflects the overall long duration of projects in our backlog specifically our major LNG and nuclear projects.
Our gross profit for the quarter totaled $391 million versus $339 million in the comparable 2013 quarter and our gross margin improved to 11.6% from 11.3% for the respective periods.
These increases were primarily attributable to the impact of our higher-revenue volume higher-margin backlog integration savings and improved operating leverage.
Gross profit for the full year increased to $1.5 billion or 11.3% of revenues compared to $1.2 billion or 10.8% in 2013.
Selling and administrative expenses decreased to $95.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 from $98.9 million in the 2013 comparable quarter.
Our S&amp;A expense was 2.8% of revenue for the fourth quarter of 2014 down 50 basis points from 3.3% in the fourth quarter of 2013 and down 30 basis points for the full year from 3.4% in 2013 to 3.1% in 2014.
This improvement was primarily due to the integration savings partially offset by inflationary increases.
We expect our 2015 SG&amp;A to revenue percentage to further improve to be at or slightly less than 3% of consolidated revenue.
As an important reminder when thinking about our stock-based compensation expense for 2015 GAAP requires certain stock-based compensation for retiree eligible participants to be expensed in the quarter in which the awards are made.
CB&amp;I’s long-term incentive compensation awards are made in the first quarter.
Consequently the aforementioned accounting will result in approximately 45% of our anticipated 2015 full-year stock-based compensation expense being recorded in the first quarter predominantly within SG&amp;A.
In terms of EPS the first quarter of 2015 stock-based compensation expense is expected to exceed the related expense for each of the second third and fourth quarters of 2015 by approximately $0.10 per share.
Integration-related costs in 2014 were $17.5 million or $0.10 a share for the fourth quarter and related primarily to facility consolidations personnel relocations and reductions in system integration costs.
We do not expect to separately report continuing integration-related costs in 2015.
Fourth quarter adjusted income from operations was $291 million or 8.6% of revenue compared to $230 million or 7.7% of revenue in the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the full year 2014 adjusted income from operations totaled $1 billion or 7.9% of revenue up over 30% from 2013 which was $780 million or 7% of revenue.
Our fourth quarter and full year 2014 adjusted income tax rates were 29% and 30.2% respectively.
The fourth quarter and full year 2013 included a tax benefit of $77 800 000 or $0.72 per share related to the recognition of our remaining UK NOL tax assets and additional US foreign tax credits.
Excluding these benefits our fourth quarter and full year 2013 adjusted income tax rates were 27.9% and 28.4% respectively.
We expect full-year 2015 income tax expense to be in the 32% to 34% range.
The effective rate increase reflects our greater portion of our income being generated in higher tax jurisdictions specifically the United States.
The summation of all that resulted in fourth quarter adjusted net income of $161 million or adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.47.
The inclusion of integration-related costs for the fourth quarter GAAP earnings of $1.37 diluted earnings per share reflect the aforementioned $0.10 per share impact.
Adjusted EBITDA totaled $337 million or 10% of revenues for the fourth quarter compared to $279 million or 9.3% of revenues in the comparable 2013 period.
Our 2014 backlog at the end of the year totaled $30.4 billion up from $27.8 billion at the beginning of the year.
Our non-US dollar denominated backlog decreased by approximately $ 7 million in 2014 due to the strengthening of the US dollar primarily against the Australian Columbia and European currencies.
While these currency fluctuations can cause variations in our reported backlog these fluctuations have not resulted in a significant variation in our operating results.
Now let me take you through the operating group fourth quarter and full year results.
Each of our group's fourth quarter 2014 results were consistent with or exceeded our expected annual range of operating results which we have discussed previously.
Our new awards for the fourth quarter and full year totaled $3.3 billion and $16.3 billion respectively representing a book to burn ratio of 98% and 125% respectively.
EC&amp;M fourth quarter revenues totaled $2.4 billion an increase of $411 million or 21% over the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our 2014 results primarily benefited from net increased revenue on US nuclear and our large cost reimbursable projects and higher plant maintenance revenue.
EC&amp;M fourth quarter revenue from its two nuclear projects in the United States totaled approximately $500 million.
Income from operations for EC&amp;M totaled $163 million or 6.9% of revenues in the fourth quarter compared to $111 million or 5.7% in 2013.
Our fourth quarter 2014 results benefited from higher revenue volume a shift to a higher-margin mix on our large cost reimbursable projects and our remaining backlog integration savings and leverage of our operating costs.
Fabrication Services reported fourth quarter 2014 revenue of $619 million a decrease of $80 million from 2013.
The decrease in the quarter was primarily due to lower storage tank work in the Asia Pacific regions and Middle East partially offset by higher revenues in the United States.
Operating income totaled $66 million or 10.7% of revenues in the fourth quarter compared to $76 million or 10.8% of revenues in the comparable 2013 period.
Our fourth quarter results were primarily impacted by lower revenue volume and cost increases of $8 million on a pipe fabrication project offset by savings on a project in Asia Pacific region.
This pipe fabrication project was very unusual in that it was booked as an award back in 2010 and was on hold by the customer until 2014.
Technology had a strong quarter reporting revenues of $158 million compared to $130 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 benefiting from higher engineered products activity.
The fourth quarter 2014 operating income totaled $52 million compared to $40 million in 2013 reflecting increased revenue and higher mix of margins.
Finally environmental solutions reported revenue of $223 million an increase of $13 million over the fourth quarter of 2013.
Operating income for the fourth quarter of 2014 was $10 million or 4.3% of revenues compared to $3 million in the corresponding quarter of 2013.
The improvement in both absolute dollars and operating margins reflect a higher margin mix of work and cost reduction initiatives implemented over the past year.
Environmental Solutions results continued to be impacted by sequestration with respect to the US federal government funding and prioritization.
Now a few comments on our balance sheet liquidity and cash flow.
Our balance sheet and liquidity remains strong.
At the end of December 2014 our total shareholder’s equity was $2.9 billion our cash balance was $351 million and our total debt declined by slightly over $400 million during the quarter.
Further in the quarter we invested $38 million in capital expenditure $88 million of common stock dividends and repurchased $19 million of our common stock.
For the full year we invested $118 million in capital expenditures paid $30 million in common stock dividends and repurchased $86 million of our common stock.
We continue to enjoy significant support from the credit markets with $3.6 billion of credit availability to support new awards growth and strategic opportunities.
As we had anticipated and discussed previously cash generated from our fourth quarter 2014 operating activities was strong and totaled $613 million.
This cash from operating activities was primarily the result of a net improvement in our contract capital of approximately $384 million with the balance of approximately $229 million from earnings and other operating activities.
Contract capital reflects the combined balances of our receivables inventory contracts in progress and accounts payable.
The improvement in our contract capital balance of $384 million in the fourth quarter was primarily related to improved collections on our large reimbursable projects of approximately $250 million and our share of payments in advance of performing work on our two large US export facility projects of approximately $265 million offset by our US nuclear projects which experienced a decline of approximately $245 million reflecting the net utilization of the advanced billing position on these projects.
Our fourth quarter cash flow from operating activities excluding the US nuclear projects totaled in excess of $800 million representing a solid cash flow quarter for the remainder of the business.
We expect this positive cash flow trend to continue; accordingly we expect our cash flows from operating activities to approximate our earnings in 2015.
With that I'll turn it back to Phil.
Thank you Ron.
Now I’ll open the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
I just wanted to go back to the nuclear projects and at the end of the third quarter I think it was about $1 billion of unapproved change orders and claims it sounds like that’s going to be going up based on some revisions to the schedule.
Can you talk about how you think this gets settled out the timing and is it the potential last years while the targets are getting constructed? Obviously you know this is the very first large capital projects that’s had dispute in terms of claims and unapproved change orders probably the first one in our experience that’s been so public.
But nevertheless we have been working with all the parties to resolve changes and scope the entitlements of change orders throughout the course of the year and have actually had some very good response in getting some traction in the settlements.
It’s not a matter of just submitting a claim order but as you know in most contracts there’s a very explicit dispute resolution which you have to work through and it does take time.
So we’re picking up the traction on that.
I think the contract is very clear in terms of who’s entitled to what.
The complicating factors really the technology provider having to demonstrate to the licenses the nature of the design changes.
Once we receive a construction document that says we need erect or construct something in the field we are obligated to do that.
And so if – there is a disputed claim that may delay things.
But we’re making progress these are first of its kind technology I mean you’ve read and heard everything about this projects but they are great projects.
I mean we’re going to get there there is a good operational utility people and they know what they are doing and we know what we’re doing and so have every confidence that we’re going to get there.
And then your comments about the backlog expecting that to increase here in 2015 could you talk a little bit more about types of projects or geographic areas where you’re expecting that increase to come from? First of all the backlog number I don’t know if Ron mentioned this in his call but backlog had somewhat of an FX adjustment this year $600 million.
So setting that aside just in terms of absolute terms we think that we’re going to have new awards we’re forecasting in the same range as we experienced this year considering that our current backlog is probably going to burn a bit slower rate on some of the major jobs because we are just starting the engineering phase that should create some growth in the overall backlog.
Locations is predominantly North America across all business lines in our company.
We see a significant increase in the amount of power plants combined cycle power plant opportunities; we continue to our capital services and plant services offerings; technology we have a bit of a challenge in some of its key areas such as Russia and China but certainly with the joint venture with Chevron and some other initiatives we have we think that will continue to be a major contributor.
So we’re quite optimistic.
As I said on the call we do see some potential sluggishness in some of the areas not so much geographic it is just the type of projects but again our exposure to upstream type projects particularly in oil rather is very minimal.
So we’re sticking with our forecast for the most part but we acknowledge there could be some timing and some delay issues in 2015 that we need to acknowledge.
And your next question will come from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
So Ron how should we think about milestone payments on nuclear projects in 2015? Is there a [indiscernible] because of the delays in a project than maybe your conviction level and free cash equaling net income in 2015? And then could you update us on what that advanced payment is level is is it two hundred and something million for the nuclear projects at this point? Let’s take them in pieces.
I think the milestones that we will hit will be on some payments we’re also being paid portions of the amount we spend when we start spending the change orders and increased number whether it’s approved or unapproved.
So that certainly mitigates some of the drawdown that we had in 2014 and why 2015 is significantly better.
Still we’re working on rebate sliding schedules but right now without those we will have a cash use in the nuclear side.
But nowhere it’s near as significant as 2014 and the base business will continue to generate strong cash flows in 2015.
Don’t look for $600 million every quarter but it would be pretty substantial.
That’s just the nature of the business as we have this increase in North America work which is predominantly fixed-price or some kind of hybrid to fixed-price the front end of these payments tend to be very positive.
And the turn around on these projects that go several years is typically two couple of years 2017 2018 at which time you refill the funnel and keep it going.
So by all means we expect to be able to offset any negative cash flow we have on nuclear projects with other parts of our business.
Let me just ask sort of a big picture question like I don’t think I’ve ever seen a situation where two projects take VMC’s market cap down but we’ve seen and I sensed your guys frustration but how do we – like everybody else does that sort of maximum liability what could CBI be found guilty of if anything and okay sort of management to give us more color around these projects.
Is there anything that you could tell us additionally backing away some of the fears that investors have around obviously big numbers that are associated with these delays is there anything more that you could say guys around that? Let me just reconfirm a couple of things this that I think Tom Fanning had mentioned in the last couple of weeks regarding that.
He framed the potential liability if you will of the contract I want to also mention the contractor is a technical contractual term it doesn’t always mean that construction contractor so if someone says the contractor has his liability that means that entire consortium so that was a bit of an unfortunate nuance used in the 8-K that was filed that I think we are – that was the entitlement factor.
But getting back to your question yeah there’s a couple of issues there.
One as Tom had framed the liability I think you said it’s somewhere around $247 million which you can assume would be split in half by the two consortium partners as damages as the limits of that damages and I’m not saying that that’s a legitimate dispute that we talked about but should that – even if we were to fail in that count that amount our amount you got to remember that’s a lump sum contract you could assume that we’ve got certain contingencies on accounting that has already addressed that and that would not be an impact on income.
Anything beyond that amount is provisions of the contract where we’re entitled to cost.
So we feel very well protected from that respect.
The second thing I think Tom mentioned in one of his comments that I think is important that probably hasn’t been talked about is that the financial guarantor of this contract is Toshiba.
That’s even high.
So I think the licensees will certainly be looking to technology providers for that relief should it become necessary.
So again we’ve talked about this we’ve talked about the time of the acquisition we always felt very comfortable that the contract protect us we have a lot of entitlement.
It’s probably going to take some time to work all those through but you said in your experience you’ve never seen that I guess remember the first claim of nuclear construction unfortunately I have but again I’ll go back to the parameters that these are great projects.
Once we get through this first phase the first of kind design when you look at the economics where you have design completed when you have construction methodologies defined the economics if someone should decide to proceed on new nuclear jobs should be kind of interesting.
I mean so we’re hopeful.
But we’re going to get through this and we’ve not – we’ve not if you look at our scope of work we’re tracking right as we should be with all the process in line we’ve certainly not assumed any big charges from this job we’re certainly going to work through these issues with all the parties.
So I don’t know how to address that I absolutely think there’s been some significant headwind on cash flows but the projects are progressing well on normal metrics that you got to apply to construction job of this type.
And your next question will come from the line of Jamie Cook with Crédit Suisse.
I said you’ve said earlier on the new projects side just Phil I guess just back to the...
We got about $29 billion other of the backlog if you want to talk about it Jamie.
Yeah I know.
Above 90% of our revenue.
90% of our revenue but that’s okay.
We’ll talk about whatever you like to.
Okay we’ll whatever – I guess just two questions.
Phil I am surprised by your optimism on the backlog and on the orders so can you talk about your confidence level did you haircut your prospect list at all are there new projects that came in there did you assume a higher win rate I’m just trying to understand why you’d be so optimistic I understand over the longer term but to say that for 2015 that seems I don’t know it seems optimistic to me.
And then I guess my second question is as you sit here today you guys have done a good job obviously integrating structuring with the Shaw acquisition given that we could be entering into a potential downturn you’ve seen in some other companies take restructuring actions in preparation for this or as a result of this do you see any opportunities outside of stuff you haven’t talked about or you’re contemplating anything? Yeah I guess I’m sounding optimistic because we’ve done a fairly thorough analysis when we saw the volatility in the prices and the drop in prices and we felt that our impact our stock impact was unreasonable considering the minimal exposure we have to upstream projects for oil companies.
We looked at our LNG projects which is a large part of our backlog certainly our power plants power projects would be unaffected petrochemical there is no reason to think that our existing prospects but very little of our prospective work which is what we’re talking about prospective work associated with oil-related projects is really very minimal.
Would you expect it to be more like back end loaded like fourth quarter loaded versus before you were expecting first half I mean has there been any tweak to how you’re thinking about this? Yeah I think we’re going to see the first half of the year lot softer than the back half of the year.
I think we’ve got some large projects out there particularly in LNG and some other projects around the world that’s probably more back end second half loaded.
But that’s not unusual for us as it is in our industry.
But I think the one little part that would affect my optimism is that if we had current backlog for whatever reason put on hold or canceled and that we have not just seen that.
When you look at our LNG jobs the ones that we’re involved in are financial driven by companies and ventures that have nothing to do with integrated oil companies.
They don’t rely on their proceeds from oil to fund these.
There’s been some discussion about Gulf Coast project being delayed somewhat for that reason but it’s not because of the economics on gas.
So we see some of that.
As I said we see some softness in some of the technology awards some of that is not even oil price related some of that is just geopolitical with the situation in Russia and other places.
So we see some softness there.
So that’s why we took a fairly minimal approach to adjust our guidance because we just have not really been able to produce the data which would suggest that we’re going to have a major impact for next year.
I guess just opportunities to restructure.
I actually have one follow-up on the nuc side but go ahead on restructuring.
We are taking some opportunities to restructure which will probably do anyway.
There is some assets that we see in the combine business that would probably serve us better by being combined on a sub unit basis.
We are looking at some discrete assets which we need choose to divest if market allow itself.
So we are not looking at potentially do anything differently on our workforce in fact we are adding to our workforce and we’re capitalizing the fact that we’re seeing a lot of people available in workforce right now.
We are taking space new space engineering space in the west side of Houston and we like I said if these conditions extend through 2016 it’s hard to say what will be the impact after that.
I don’t know of anyone I don’t know if you have any better information but I would suggest that would be a longer-lasting impact than six or eight months.
And I would add when you look at the revenues for 2015 and our guidance we’re growing the business 14% and the vast vast majority of that growth comes out of our $30 billion of backlog with projects that going and will continue to go.
So with 14% growth in revenues unless we see something dramatic in cancellation of postponing those projects we’re manned enough.
I'm not worried about your guidance for 2015; I'm worried about 2016 earnings if the new awards don't happen.
I think 2015 is fine.
But I guess my other question just on the nuc side everyone's trying to ask this.
I know you can't talk to specific numbers of the consortium.
But is the consortium – are they okay it's in everyone's best interest to have some resolution in 2015? Because the other side of it if I was them why not just drag this thing out and go through arbitration or go to court and have this thing last four or five years right? But is there any – do people want to resolve this at all any time in the near future besides you? I think they do.
There are quite different contracts on both projects and I certainly believe that people want to resolve that and then no reason to that as I said we’re working through a lot of these issues as we speak and have had pretty good results and so I feel pretty confident.
As far as there was a comment that I believe that was made by one of the – maybe Tom’s comment about he thought that perhaps the consortium relationship was affecting the job.
And I think probably what he meant was the commercial discussion because on an everyday basis there’s thousands of people throughout the consortium and licensees that are working together to get this job built.
So there’s a lot of sub-text to that.
But again we feel pretty confident.
And so I think if you’re talking about 2016 we will see but I think if you look at the existing backlog as Ron mentioned I mean we’ve got some significant backlog still in Australia that’s moving forward on a couple of major projects.
East Africa still got be resolved this year and we’re moving forward of the preliminary works.
For Mozambique in competition for that project that is additional trains that we’re looking at the existing LNG which there’s been no discussion on delaying that.
But there may be some as we saw in 2009 you remember when there was a tremendous pause when the oil prices were I think around $30 as I recall.
And a lot of major projects were delayed because owners wanted to see if there was any way to capitalize on the supply market.
And after that was done and re-estimates were done then we saw a rush of new awards towards the end of 2009.
So we may see some pause like that but right now we haven’t seen it.
Your next question will come from the line of Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Maybe to follow up on Jamie's your response to Jamie about the potential pause and competition in some of the end markets that you are seeing.
Do you get a sense that there is more aggressiveness from – recognize it's always a competitive industry but because of the issues in the last six months any heightened sense of that generally or maybe in some of the end markets in particular that you are working in? Actually when you look at the Middle East for example that situation has improved we’re seeing more and more European and American contractors more competitive against what had been a fairly Korean dominated market.
So we’ve seen that improve.
There is going to be probably some Middle Eastern projects which won’t go forward immediately but there are exceptions to that particularly in Kuwait where they have a large projects in refineries going forward we’ve got some tank work opportunities there as well as some engineering procurement work of our European offices.
There is some additional very significant work in Kazakhstan which is going forward.
Where we see the potential risk Michael is perhaps some of the offshore work that we do out of Europe and again that’s not a huge – won’t move the needle much on the overall business plan but there is some softness there.
But in the US and when we saw the last reduction in oil prices the projects that were immediately impacted were oil sand but we’re kind of through this last wave of oil sands development in Canada and we really didn’t have any significant projects there going forward for this next year.
Again 2016 is a different story if this thing continues but the best information that we can give from the owners is that they don’t anticipate some of that to take that long because it’s driven by demand and demand is going away.
And I think Michael to the other thing is we’re quite diversified than our competition in many different ways.
So we have ways to hedge anymore impact from oil prices that perhaps others might not and that was by intent.
So power markets looks good we got a lot of interesting projects going forward.
So like I said we’re being cautious but certainly we are confident in what we are projecting right now.
Sometimes people forget about the diversity of your business model.
That makes you a bit different and unique.
Follow-up my second question would be the tender and pace of capital allocation decisions in 2015.
Ron looking at the cash flow schedules and what you talked about in your prepared remarks is certain parts of the year better for share repurchase? Is there a potential we see an asset monetization of some size in the first quarter or second quarter of 2015? That wasn’t assumed in that projection.
Our cash flow that we generated like Ron right said the old fashioned way through earnings.
Anything we do through divestitures will be upside and also our EPS projections for the year were not dependent on share repurchases it was done in absence of that.
It’s going to be as we judge them and opportunistically is going to be dependent on the share price and – but I think it’s important to let our shareholders know that is the priority for capital for the next couple of years.
We think it’s a benefit to get out the dilution of the shares we issued with the Shaw acquisition and that’s what we intend to do.
And our pace would be driven by cash flows and as Ron said we expect that to improve significantly.
That’s generally the plan going forward for the next couple of years.
But given current stock price and what the first quarter half of cash flow any sense of that Ron? I think we took longer term that that Michael.
I think the first quarter just generally as you call if you look backwards is one of our weaker quarters just because all the year-end type of costs funding benefit plans or composition plans or all the other things that have in the first quarter tend to reduce that.
But I think we look at a little bit longer term than that we will kind of evaluate 2015 as it goes but also keep an eye out for 2015 2016 timeframe as opposed to doing too much too fact.
I think we talked about in November but just remind you that we did have some debt covenants that restricted the amount of share repurchase we could do at any particular time.
We’ve reduced the debt to almost a ratio we need to allow us to – flexibility to repurchase shares as the opportunity presents itself.
So we think that will all be resolved itself towards the end of the first half of this year or the second quarter and we should be moving forward on our plan.
And your next question will come from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
Phil it sounds like you are expecting some big LNG projects driving the awards this year.
What do you think has to happen for those to move forward? What are the other likely sources of large projects outside of LNG that hold some promise here? I can be a little more discreet of LNG because the public common thing around these is pretty widely known for all the LNG jobs.
The main LNG jobs that we project for this year that could have some impact aren’t really Mozambique as I mentioned.
We’re in competition in that so obviously we have that factored somewhat in terms of our dependency of hitting our new award forecast.
But we’re very confident the owners for Freeport for example move ahead of train 3 and that would be a significant award.
We’re pretty confident that [indiscernible] would move forward on that development this year.
So in terms of just new awards that’s very good for us.
I mentioned there is some interesting projects in the Middle East of some hundreds of millions of dollars that are very interesting so we see some big wins.
Remember we also have a big chunk of our work that we’ve always called underpinning work this year I think it was probably over $4 billion.
And we don’t see that underpinning work is necessarily that effective except for engineering potentially engineering offshore engineering work out of some of the European offices.
So that’s always been a healthy opportunity for us and pretty quick book and burn characteristics and significant margins.
Fabrication again is getting a lot of work and pretty good challenge there is to make sure that we can retain what we see as margins and continue to improve our efficiency in our pipe fabrication steel replacements on the tank works lot of good opportunity as I said in Kuwait and other parts of the Middle East and other parts of the world.
There seems to be an intuitive feeling out there that all those cheap oil they’re going to need a lot of storage to put it somewhere which could create opportunity.
I got to say we haven’t seen that yet but hopefully that will happen perhaps 2016 and beyond.
Although the terminal business in the United States and pressurized storage is as good as we’ve it perhaps in 125 years.
So that sort of the business.
So even on our environmental solutions our awards exceeded revenue by a significant amount.
I think the book to burn was about 1.4 or so we exceeded what we expect on income from operations by a significant amount.
So we’ve been making a lot of progress on all fronts.
So we think that will continue through 2015.
That's helpful.
I think you gave an 8% margin guidance target.
What are the most important things that have to happen to hit that? To what extent do you have closeouts baked in there versus...
No we don’t really look at that.
Those would be events not planned.
We don’t look at savings with these cash flows and margins are in a pretty standard curves.
8% is really just expected improvement across the line when you look at our lowest margin business one of our lowest business is our engineering and construction business with the largest backlog.
So in absolute terms we will drive a lot of earnings that way but that bandwidth tends to be fairly predictable as compared to the rest of the industry.
And I think we’ve said that as 4% to 6% this year we did 7% closer to 8% that’s right and we don’t expect that to change of course our technologies tremendous margins on that business fabrication services which is about 35% of our backlog still even challenged as we were this year we still reserving about 9% operating margin.
So when you look across border in terms of how we’re structured and our opportunities we expect that the consolidated margin should approach 8% for the year on an operating margin basis.
And I think my comments on EC&amp;M side will continue to progress into 2015 just a mix of that work will continue to move towards higher margin rate as you saw each almost sequentially this year we had some headway to go there yet as we continue to shift into higher margin reimbursable work which is already happening and higher percentage of US work the North American work I should say coming out of that.
And your next question will come from the line of John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Phil first of all in your prepared remarks and I may have misheard this.
When you were talking about share repurchases you mentioned buying 10% of the stock.
Did you put a timeframe on that? Well yeah we look at our – just our cash flows to bode any kind of events like divestitures or anything like that anticipate the share price and we like to think that we could eliminate that dilution from the strong shares within – by the end of 2016.
And that would be our goal.
We can accelerate that obviously if we can – if there are proceeds that we can earn or other events or the cash flows are much better than we anticipate.
But on a conservative basis that’s what we like to do.
We think that would be obviously a tremendous benefit for our shareholders.
In terms of the divestitures obviously you haven't figured out or reached any deals if you had any preliminary discussions or thoughts on that I know you can't say what they are.
Are we talking about hundreds of millions of dollars? Well I hope so.
We talked about at the time of the acquisition parts of the business that may or may not be core and certainly we have tested the market and had some people kicking the tires there but quite honestly we think that we can improve some of the businesses and make them more core and better profitably increase their value perhaps at some time as any part of our business.
It could be of more value if we invest than keeping.
Right now a part of the business is not really on the table.
But there are some discrete assets depending on our direction and our strategy that might be worth looking at and we’ve had some interest in again if we do that we’re talking in the hundreds of millions of dollars.
Lastly just on the power plant projects you mentioned you've got some.
But you didn't mention or I didn't see them referenced as much for 2015 prospects.
Are there substantial power plant opportunities and you are pretty comfortable with your execution there and thinking back years ago...
So far so good we got a couple this year.
We look at the scattered chart on potential combined cycle gas plants and the number is up around 70.
Now of course all those won’t go and of course there is a development cycle issue if you’re talking about regulated utility versus a merchant plan which tends to be much longer in the cycle [indiscernible] for example.
But they are out there.
And the competitors in that market it’s pretty good list it’s not dozens it’s handful of people that have the capability and resume to do these projects.
So we feel we are very well positioned.
And we have time for one final question today.
Your final question will come from the line of Vishal Shaw with Deutsche Bank.
This is [indiscernible] on for Vishal.
So I had a couple questions on the fabrication services side.
Orders are trending down sequentially over the last several quarters.
But in light of oil and gas spending concerns do you think this trend is reversible in 2015? And then also how much of your $2.5 billion or so in backlog will be burned over the course of the next 12 months? As far as fabrication services or the overall backlog for the company.
Fabrication services? Part of what we’re doing with fabrication services is a matter of selectivity and efficiencies and so we are trying to get better work – high work and a better mix of projects in our shop.
So that’s kind of reflective.
But we’re very encouraged by the position of fabrication services at least our high fabrication has in its market and of course our CB&amp;I tank business is certainly extremely well positioned in their geographic markets.
Each one of our reporting segments have different book and burn characteristics.
For example our burn rate primarily in E&amp;C is probably around 35% to 45% which was for the company kind of that.
We have much high book and burn characteristics for our fabrication services and remember that’s different kinds of work but it could be over 60%.
And if you look back in historic CB&amp;I legacy projects before we start acquiring other companies traditionally we were around 60% 65%.
So we think that’s pretty good norm for now as well.
And then just moving to the technology side if you look over the past couple of quarters margins are running about 33% which is pretty well above the 25% to 30% guide that you guys gave.
Is this a new normal or should they normalize over the year as 2015 progresses? Also how should we think about the linearity? One of the things we’re doing is there are some components of the technology group which we are shifting into another part of the company to keep technology as more of a pure play.
So you’re actually going to probably see the margin percentage even increase.
But we’ll explain that as those moves are made.
But yeah I would like to think it certainly should be the normal for those projects.
Our group has done a tremendous job looking at very creative ways to monetize technology beyond just selling licenses and catalysts with the joint ventures they have and application and licensing of this patented technologies in some interesting places of the world.
So I think we expect that to continue again they’re one of the premier technology companies in the world so interest is high.
And so I would say our expectations for that group are very high.
Thank you.
That would conclude today’s Q&amp;A session.
I’ll turn the conference back over to Mr.
Asherman for closing remarks.
Thank you.
In summary our 2014 results reflect strong new awards in key end markets and recognition by our clients the benefits of our integrated supply chain solution while our revenue and earnings performance highlight our consistent execution and the flexibility of our diverse offerings.
For the current year in spite of short-term uncertainty associated with the price of oil we expect little impact to our revenue and earnings performance and have confidence in the long term fundamental strength of our positioning within our end markets.
So with that I’d like to thank all of you for your interest and participation today.
And this concludes our call.
Thank you for dialing in for today's conference call.
We appreciate your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Holly and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the CB&amp;I First Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been muted to prevent background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Before beginning today's call the company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company's press release and the SEC filings.
While forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Thank you.
Mr.
Asherman you may begin.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we report Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron's results for the first quarter of 2015.
I'm pleased to have with me today CB&amp;I’s new Chief Financial Officer Mike Taff.
Now many of you probably know Mike from his 30 plus years of financial and industry experience but for those of you how do not know Mike he joined CB&amp;I on April 01 from Flowserve Corporation where he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
He previously served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for McDermott International and also for the The Babcock and Wilcox Company following its spin-off from McDermott.
So please join me in welcoming Mike who will discuss the company’s overall financial performance in a few minutes.
Now before we discuss our results for the quarter I’d like to highlight our safety performance.
An example of our industry leading performance is our safety record at the multibillion dollar refinery expansion we are completing for Ecopetrol and Cartagena Colombia.
The project recently surpassed over 100 million man hours worked at the site without a lost time accident.
Now this is a tremendous achievement for CB&amp;I and for our industry.
And I want to wish congratulations to all of the men and women in Colombia who made this achievement possible.
I'm also proud to add that for the past two consecutive quarters were 29 million man hours our entire oil and gas business has not had a lost time incident.
So thanks to our track record in safety we were recently recognized with a Green Cross for Safety Award from the National Safety Council.
The awards ceremony was well attended from members of the Council such as Exxon Mobil and Exelon and previous recipients of the award including Dow Chemical DuPont and Owens Corning among others.
Also during the quarter we had a couple of strategic changes to our structure that will enhance operational excellence balance our portfolio and strengthen our overall organization.
Environmental Solutions which is now called Capital Services Group will include our Plant Services business unit with the Environmental &amp; Infrastructure Organization combined as one sub unit.
Both managed field and task oriented works cope and projects that have similar customer relationships and by merging the two we'll be able to better capitalize on their combined abilities to deliver a more complete range of services to our customers.
Separately the Federal Services business will remain part of the Capital Services Group.
The other change to our sub units is that Fabrication Services now also includes our business and focuses on manufactured heat exchangers and skid mounted equipment serving the U.S.
midstream markets.
Engineered Products had previously been aligned under the Technology Group.
Now let's turn to the quarter's results.
During the quarter we generated $3.1 billion in revenue a 7% increase year-over-year despite negative headwinds associated with foreign exchange fluctuations of approximately $150 million.
Our earnings of $1.21 per diluted share represented 40% year-over-year growth over adjusted earnings from the comparable period.
Operating margins for the company are nearly 8%.
New awards totaled $3.0 billion for the quarter representing a good mix of size location and end markets.
During the quarter we announced the award of our third LNG train for the Freeport LNG export terminal.
The Freeport award also reaffirms the confidence we have expressed in our capacity to generate growth in key end markets by focusing on the right projects clients and in markets where we have a competitive advantage.
Our Fabrication Services Group approached $1 billion in new awards for the quarter representing robust sequential and year-over-year growth.
Most positively the awards were largely comprised of underpinning work from the diverse set of locations clients and offerings including work for developments in LNG oil sands refining terminals petrochemical NGLs and power markets.
The versatility of our Fabrication Services Group continues to underscore the benefits of our diversified offerings versus pure EPC delivery models.
Additionally we announced this afternoon an award in excess of $640 million to provide ethylene technology basic engineering and cracker heater supply as well as cost reimbursable construction services for the Shintech Ethane Cracker Project in Louisiana.
This project reflects our customers' confidence in our resources and ability to self-perform projects along the U.S.
Gulf Coast.
We signed this contract in the fourth quarter of 2014 with the announcement pending the customer's authorization of their permitting and technical documentation.
Regarding other oil and gas opportunities in our Engineering &amp; Construction Group we continue to see potential in U.S.
LNG.
Currently there are approximately 50 million tons per year of capacity under construction projections highlight a reasonable ceiling could be around 100 to 120 million tons per year meaning that there is probably additional room for another 10 to 15 more LNG trains in the following years.
So we continue to participate in pre-feed and feed activity for LNG developments large and small with a variety of clients.
The natural gas market in the United States remains the key driver of U.S.
petrochemical expansions.
There is enough natural gas in the U.S.
to keep prices of natural gas and natural gas liquids very low relative to crude prices.
And even though some of our client's anticipated margins have narrowed we believe that with the recovery of the price of oil long-term margins will be supported with the U.S.
investments.
More specifically in the ethylene market we expect to see improvement in the margin in the United States.
The U.S.
and Canada remain major producers of ethane keeping feedstock prices low while rising oil prices will continue to put upward pressure on the cost of naphtha.
We are also seeing refining capacity growth in the Asia-Pacific region driven by heavy investments in China India and the Middle East with upgraded demand in Russia.
Finally on oil and gas the recent wave of M&amp;A activity in the energy sector represents the view of market players we think the current pricing environment presents attractive valuations as an opportunity to increase reserves in strategic markets and we view these consolidations as a positive relative to LNG and other key end markets for us.
Turning to power U.S.
market activity has been dominated by natural gas generation developments.
Power generation from natural gas is favored by a trend towards cleaner fuels with higher efficiencies and lower emissions retirement of coal plants and phase outs due to EPA restrictions and lower power prices.
We see opportunity in additional combined cycle plants as well as simple cycle developments.
Related to fabrication services and addition to jointly pursuing many of the previously discussed opportunities with our Engineering &amp; Construction Group we have solid levels of activity and cryogenic storage small LNG storage pressurized solutions and terminal storage for LPG and regasification projects globally.
Additionally the inclusion of the engineered products business positions us to continue the expansion of our proprietary equipment within the refining petrochemical and gas processing end markets.
Now technology has seen some delays and licensing from client uncertainty with oil pricing the slowdown in China and the continuing effects of the sanctions and currency devaluation in Russia.
However technologies refining activity has been better than anticipated driven by the need for hydrocracking projects to meet global diesel demand and although gasoline demand is flat the required reformulations are requiring additional need for our products.
Now finally in our Capital Services Group our Federal Services business continues to adjust to an environment of tight budgets by focusing on federal budget priorities mission-critical support services and energy program opportunities.
For our facilities and plant services business the opportunities there remain solid with continued focus on international and end market expansion.
We expect continuing growth of our $30 billion of backlog while maintaining solid margins in all of our reporting units.
During the first quarter our backlog was affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations representing a reduction of $300 million compared to the previous quarter.
Mike will discuss this and other FX impact in more detail in a couple of minutes.
Now as the geographic mix of our backlog has shifted given the growth in North America approximately 15% of our backlog and 40% of our revenue is still currently generated outside the U.S.
and we forecast that this 60-40 split will be constant throughout the year.
As we have previously discussed we expect our backlog burn to remain as planned at approximately 35% to 40% for the year with no expected delays in the pace of our revenue.
Our oil and gas projects along the Gulf Coast continued to advance with engineering and procurement and initial early construction progressing.
Our Australian mechanical erection and instrumentation scope on two major LNG projects remain on track while our repertoire [ph] refinery project in Cartagena Columbia is winding down construction and will completely later this year.
Turning to our nuclear projects V.C.
Summer and Vogtle both projects continue to make substantial physical progress.
In February the first of 34 walls [ph] modules for the Vogtle unit 4 CA 20 module were appended marking the start of the assembly process.
We’re also preparing for key module placements later this year such as the setting of the CA 01 modules in May and June.
Additionally we continue to work with our customers and partners on outstanding commercial issues with positive results particularly on Vogtle where the client is working closely with our team to address costs and schedule challenges in a very productive manner which should resolve in improvement in cash flow and progress of the work.
As I noted during our last call integration savings in 2014 exceeded $100 million dollars and we expect to achieve additional cost reductions of approximately $50 million in 2015 which when achieved will total over $200 million of savings since the financial close of our Shaw transaction.
Our positioning in key end markets strong backlog execution capabilities and operational efficiencies support our plan to continue to generate value to our shareholders via revenue earnings cash performance in line with our previous indications.
We are on track to deliver on our capital allocation priorities of repurchasing stock maintaining our dividends and continuing to pay down our debt while maintaining adequate balances to support our operation and growth initiatives.
So let me turn it over to Mike who will report the financial results of our first quarter.
Mike? Thanks Phil and good afternoon everyone.
I am very pleased to join the CB&amp;I management team.
I appreciate Phil's kind words and I'm looking forward to the years ahead.
I look forward to meeting most of you personally in the near future.
Let me discuss in greater detail our financial goals for the quarter.
Before we start let me remind you that our 2015 earnings are no longer presented adjusted or integration related cost.
We began 2015 with a strong operational performance and are well-positioned to deliver on our guidance for the year.
First let me walk you through our results at the consolidated level.
Revenues for the first quarter were $3.1 billion an increase of $198 million or a 7% increase over the first quarter of 2014.
The increase in revenues is due to progress on our large U.S.
nuclear projects increased LNG activity in the U.S.
and higher plant maintenance revenue.
As mentioned previously our first quarter 2015 revenue was impacted by foreign currency fluctuations associated with the strengthening dollar against other currencies generating a headwind of approximately $150 million relative to the first quarter of 2014.
Our gross profit for the first quarter totaled $370 million versus $301 million in the first quarter of 2014 with gross margins of 11.8% compared to 10.3% respectively an improvement of 150 basis points.
The increase is a result of higher revenue volume higher-margin backlog and leverage of operating cost.
Selling and administrative expenses decreased to $109 million from $119 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Our S&amp;A expense was 3.5% of revenue down 60 basis points from 4.1% in the first quarter of 2014.
The decrease was primarily due to lower incentive plan cost as GAAP requires certain stock based compensation for retirement eligible participants to be expensed in the quarter in which the awards are made.
First quarter stock based compensation expense totaled approximately $32 million or 43% of the estimated annual expense for the year.
We continue to expect our S&amp;A expense to be at or slightly less than 3% of revenue for 2015.
During the first quarter we had a gain of approximately $7.5 million related to the contribution of a technology to our unconsolidated Chevron Lummus Global joint venture and we had a foreign exchange loss of approximately $11 million associated with the re-measurement of certain non-U.S.
dollar denominated net assets.
On a net basis these items represent a $3.5 million expense for the quarter.
These amounts are included in the other expense or income line in our financial statements.
Our income from operations continues to benefit from higher margin revenue consistent execution higher operational leverage and lower S&amp;A levels.
During the quarter we generated operating income of $247 million or 7.9% of revenue compared to adjusted income from operations of $171 million or 5.8% of revenue in the corresponding 2014 period.
This represents a 44% increase in operating income year-over-year.
For the quarter our income tax rate was 30.8% compared to 29.5% for the corresponding period in 2014.
As a larger portion of our income is anticipated to be generated in higher tax jurisdictions in 2015 we expect our full-year effective tax rate to be between 31% to 33%.
As a result our 2015 first quarter net income equaled $132 million or diluted earnings per share of $1.21 compared to adjusted net income of $94 million or diluted adjusted earnings per share of $0.87 in the first quarter of 2014 representing a 40% increase year-over-year.
Turning to our future sources of net income our new awards for the first quarter totaled over $3 billion representing a book-to-burn ratio of roughly 1.
At the end of the quarter our backlog was approximately $30 billion largely down from $30.7 billion year-over-year and $30.4 billion at year end.
Approximately $300 million of the decrease versus year end was due to unfavorable currency fluctuations.
Now let's review our operating group results for the first quarter.
As Phil explained during the quarter we realigned our four operating groups to better align management oversight with service delivery platforms.
Our results for 2014 have been reclassified to reflect the operating group realignment.
Further in our Form 10-Q we have provided quarter results for all of 2014 on a basis consistent with 2015.
We intend to separately file a Form 8-K which will provide recasted operating group results on an annual basis for 2012 through 2014 consistent with our presentation for 2015.
We expect to file the 8-K next week.
First quarter revenue for Engineering &amp; Construction previously EC&amp;M totaled $1.8 billion an increase of $132 million or 8% over the first quarter of 2014.
Additionally E&amp;C revenue experienced an FX headwind of approximately $130 million compared to the 2014 period.
Income from operations totaled $136 million or 7.5% of revenue in the first quarter of 2015 compared to $85 million or 5% of revenue in 2014 representing a 250 basis point improvement in operating margins.
Our 2015 results benefited from higher revenue volume a higher-margin mix on our projects and leverage of operating cost.
Fabrication services generated first quarter revenue of $638 million a decrease of $34 million or 5% from 2014.
Our first quarter 2015 revenue decreased due to the delayed timing of new awards and headwinds related to FX.
Operating income totaled $52 million or 8.2% of revenue compared to $47 million or 7% of revenue in 2014.
Our first quarter 2015 results were adversely impacted by the previously discussed foreign loss of $11 million.
Technology reported revenues of $99 million compared to $103 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Income from operations for the first quarter was $48 million or 48.3% of revenue compared to $35 million or 33.8% of revenue for the corresponding 2014 period.
The increase during the quarter is due to the performance of higher-margin work and a gain associated with the contribution of a technology to our unconsolidated CLG joint venture.
Finally Capital Services previously Environmental Solutions generated revenue of $570 million an increase of $103 million or 22% over the comparable period.
Income from operations for the first quarter of 2015 was $10 million or 1.7% of revenue compared to $4.3 million in 2014.
The increase is a result of higher revenue volume and continuing benefits from previously implemented cost reduction initiatives.
Now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow at the close of the quarter our cash balance was $347 million with $3.2 billion of credit availability to support new awards growth and strategic opportunities.
During the quarter we invested $29 million in capital expenditures serviced $27 million of our debt and paid $8 million of common stock dividends.
We also used $290 million of operating cash flow which was the net result of cash flow form earnings offset by a decrease in our net contract capital liability position.
As a reminder our contract capital reflects the combined balances of receivables inventory contracts in progress and accounts payable.
Changes in our contract capital during the quarter were primarily driven by the timing and billing milestones on our U.S.
nuclear projects and the timing of accounts payable payments on our backlog.
We would expect our accounts payable balance to increase as our revenue increases over the remainder of the year.
Although we expect our cash to fluctuate on a quarterly basis we expect cash flows from operating activities to approximate net earnings for 2015.
With that I'll turn it back over to Phil.
Thanks Mike.
Let's open the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Hello Michael.
Good afternoon everybody.
Welcome back Mike.
Hey Mike good to talk to you.
Yes usually people leave this industry don’t come back.
So this is pretty special.
I love this industry.
I know as we all do.
First question I guess for Phil thinking about the opportunities you are seeing in the U.S.
Gulf Coast looking at your pipe fab and your tankage [ph] business and may be some of the opportunities in accessing labor do you still feel there is a healthy level of business and opportunities that is may be a little bit better and more tangible than maybe the industry or we would have thought maybe six months ago given the break in oil and the concern about the cap spending? Yes Mike despite the – the volatility in the oil prices as we said at the end of last year when analyzing our potential pipeline of new awards we saw I think at that time we said less than 5% of those new prospects that could be affected by changes in the oil pricing and that's still our position.
Very little impact on what we saw for the year as far as new awards in terms of geography and where those awards are going to come from.
Clearly it is heavily weighted in the U.S.
by geography we expect that probably over 60% of our new awards will be somewhere will be in the U.S.
with the rest divided throughout the rest of the world.
As far as the impact on work probably the place that we've seen it immediately is in our technology group and a lot of that has to do more with the strong U.S.
dollars and the exchange rate in places that we need good market positions such as Russia and China to make our plan we've seen some headwind there.
So we've seen some delays in order because of the 60 ruble adjustment and the slowdown in China.
But again that will reverse at some point and it is not a major impact on our overall plan.
So bottom line as we projected we still see the projects going forward.
We still see the petrochemical projects going forward.
I thought today's announcement on Shintech was useful as far as signaling that there is still petrochemical projects out there and we still see some progress.
We're well positioned in the combined cycle market.
We anticipate that there are probably 70 on the drawing boards over the next few years and certainly we're well positioned to get certain amount of that.
And then LNG development continues.
So as we said at the end of the year that's how we see it for the remainder of this year and 2016.
And so my follow up is as you realign some of the business units with different factors is that the sense of is there more cost synergies that are and maybe fab services or in the Capital Services business is there any change to the margin targets or the returns that the Capital Services can generate given you restructure a little bit here moving into 2015? Thank you.
That's certainly part of the – the primary standard for those changes was or efficiency and our delivery to our customers based on the types of work that they do.
And the synergies are growing our customer base as well as the commercial structure certainly will benefit from adding critical mass to our Capital Services group on our facility and plant services.
There is also consistent margins.
We don’t see that necessary the dilution effecting the other groups where it was previously aligned.
So we think that's a positive benefit for shareholders was well as our customers and certainly operational efficiencies.
On the engineered products the heaters and the heat transfer equipment and the fabricated equipment that we do along with midstream projects that was a logical move.
They are not merged with anyone.
They are a separate sub unit under fabrication services but we're all ready seen the synergies in terms of shop utilization and other opportunities by making that move.
So it was all good again the consolidation does not change.
I think the margin will reflect a pure reflection of the commercial structures for both technology and the other groups.
And once you get through all the accounting shift and this I think it will be pretty clear to you.
But it made sense and made a lot of sense from a business standpoint.
Thank you Phil.
Thank you Mike.
Your next question will come from Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Good afternoon guys Mike happy to have you.
Hi Andrew how are you doing buddy? Good so Mike we'll start you with a fun one so I know you said that our cash from ops would still equal net income this year but you started out in a pretty big hole in 1Q.
So can you talk about whether 1Q was worse than your own expectations and why were contracts in progress and accounts payable such big drag in Q1.
You know you guys talked in the past about that's sort of dying down here especially contracts in progress so what's going on? Well thanks Andy and the answer here it was a little worse than I had anticipated and primarily on the accounts payable side I think we knew that contract capital was going to be a drag as related to the contract primarily on the nuclear jobs we knew that was pretty much embedded in the first three or four months a year.
So we got through that kind of as expected.
And we also knew that some of the new awards that we won over last 12 months were still kind of in that engineering and repeating phases.
And as that ramps up and a lot of half the year you'll see us then progress to generating more cash flow.
So yes I think there's still a lot of confidence that we'll be for the year being that $500 million to $600 million range of operating cash flows and I think we get there really two or three different ways one just doing a better job of managing accounts payable and monitoring that.
Two as revenue progresses during the year in some of these new projects ramp up into the procurement and construction phase traditionally that's where you see us getting positive cash flows from there.
So I mean I think those two Andy I think we'll be able to do that and then the third aspect is just the guys are doing a great job as Phil mentioned on the nuclear jobs.
And so we're working closely with the customers.
We're getting close to some billing milestones.
We're also working with them as far as being able to hit those milestones and also potentially pull some forward.
So with that I think you'll see the nuclear jobs being less of a drag in the last three quarters of the year than you saw in the first quarter and then improvements on those other two areas.
Okay mike that's helpful.
So you said in the past that Lake Charles would be done with most of it is in modular fabrication by the end of April so where are you in the progress on that? Well that's still progressing.
We are finishing up the committed work at Lake Charles and essentially they will be out of the nuclear business here and in short order we still provide any fabricated materials from [indiscernible] and certainly and there are some subcontract work to Toshiba and to Westinghouse in a couple of other non CB&amp;I shops.
So we're pretty much on our way out of Lake Charles as planned.
I guess how does that work so as it slips meaningfully from April do you have to suffer some of the expense there or how does that work? No we're not suffering any expense.
The original scope of the work is certainly within budget and on schedule for both projects as we anticipated.
The noise around the schedule and the cost have to do with the forward-looking work that we’ve been talking about but Lake Charles has pretty much made all their commitments as planned and as I said we’ll be converting its shop capacity more to standard fabricated pipe work and other operations.
Got it and then just one more quick one on the nuclear projects can you talk about discussions if you are having them with your consortium partner how are you going to resolve the disagreements with your partner and are you going to have any sort of formal dispute resolution process or really how do you resolve these issues when you have them or is it just going to take a while for it? Well there is a lot of issues already in the pipeline as you know and there is a formalized dispute resolution prescribed in the contract which we are following with them and reviews and again it takes time.
There is entitlement that we have for engineering from either the technology provider or the in some cases certainly the licensees and then certainly the technology provider has to establish entitlement in their contract to licensee.
So it’s very complicated.
But one that we’re pursuing aggressively and one where we're gaining pretty good cooperation from the licensees and from the technology provider.
So it’s a challenge and it’s going to take a while but we’re not alarmed.
We think certainly the case is very clear our positions are very clear.
It’s just going to take time to work through these.
Okay thank you.
Thank you Andy.
Thanks Andy.
Your next question will come from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Hi guys.
Good afternoon.
Hi Steve.
Hi.
Hi Steve.
Hi Mike.
In terms of what's still left to book for the year how much is big project versus medium versus small or underpinning kind of work and kind of where you have the most confidence versus engagements [ph] coming out of Turkey then Russia and China but just maybe broadly talk about that mix? Yes.
Well I will give you some broad terms obviously they are competitive issues so I can’t get too specific on that.
But generally we see that there is going to be fairly well distributed through the last three quarters heavily concentrated as you could imagine as far as larger backlog in our Engineering &amp; Construction business.
As a good mix there is certainly some ethylene plant works of some very good size that we probably see in the first half of the year.
There is also some downstream work.
There is some international work that we see fairly significant work but if I look at our prospect sheet and I am just doing some quick addition we will have some major jobs of several billion dollars with approximately still around $4 billion of underpinning work that we anticipate this year which is normal for our business.
So we’re on track for all that although we stopped guiding to new awards we certainly indicated that we expect our new awards to certainly approach the levels that we experienced last year if that timing and all happens for us.
So we’re still encouraged we’re optimistic.
Again the markets in which we’re positioned are still very strong and seem to be relatively unaffected so far by the volatility in the oil prices.
And Steve I would just comment from a revenue standpoint for 2015 we have indicated that we haven’t seen any significant slowdowns in any of the large projects that are in backlog that we expect to convert into revenues so we've indicated that about 35% to 40% of our revenue as Phil said in his opening remarks would convert into revenue and you combine that with the level of typical underpinning awards we get for the year to the tune of round $4 billion.
I think that certainly serves well and looks promising for hitting the revenue guidance for the year.
Okay that’s helpful and then Phil and Mike as well I know you mentioned that Shintech project is cost reimbursable.
I’m assuming that is just the nature of that particular project was but how you’re thinking about how much risk more broadly to put in backlog at the moment have you sort of reached the maximum point of where you want to have fixed price in there or are you comfortable putting more fixed priced projects in there? Well Steve the reason we noted that cost reimbursable of the construction because it was a fairly unusual kind of combination contractually for us that we normally don’t bid construction on any jobs alone unless they’re reimbursable or there are some other mitigating factors.
In this case we’ve had relationship with Toyo Engineering for 40 to 50 years in a variety of ethane and ethylene projects all over the world.
It was a natural – I think it was a natural joining of resources when Toyo who had a contract with VisionTek who is a Japanese company brought that project to United States and we offered our services because of our expertise in self-performed construction combined with technology.
Generally on those projects as we saw it was with Occidental [ph] as we will see with some future projects will provide our technologies and the buying pattern tends to be with those type projects.
If you have a delivery model that they would prefer to continue to do basic engineering and EPC and that would be the norm going forward.
Most of those projects are fixed price which is fine because it’s our technology and certainly we will self-perform and control all the critical activities.
On top of that there are still opportunities to sell our fabricated pipe services as well as our steel plate structures on top of that.
So they are good profit opportunities they are great projects to be involved in and we think we’re well positioned.
And Steve I mean I would know if you just look at our existing backlog where it stands today we’re at about let's say 70% 30% fixed cost versus cost reimbursable and I think we are very comfortable assuming that risk when we can manage all the aspects of the service delivery.
Thanks great.
Welcome back Mike.
Thanks Steve.
Your next question will come from Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Hi good evening hi Phil and welcome back Mike.
Thanks Jamie.
I guess two questions Mike my first question is directed to you I guess can you just sort of talk about I guess I know you've only been on the job about three weeks but you’re a veteran of the industry so can you sort of talk about your observations of CBI over your first couple of weeks and sort of what your top two or three priorities are that you want to get your arms around over the next sort of three to six months.
And my second question is for you Phil or probably more for you Phil or Mike either one just in terms of capital allocation I think there was an expectation I understand the cash flow dynamics over the first quarter but can you talk about how you’re thinking about share repurchase over the next sort of 12 to 18 months and any update on possible divestitures or portfolio changes? Thanks? And through the world Mike and I will take the first half after Mike’s question.
Thanks Jamie.
No I mean I'd say overall very favorable impressions my first three weeks here got a chance to sit down and meet probably the top 60 70 plus folks in the organization at quarterly reviews last week and I would say very impressed with the level of the senior team and as well as the guys running the business out in the operations and all.
So that is certainly very comforting for a new guy coming in.
The second observation is very encouraging just from the I'd say the diversification of the organization and not only we talk a lot about the diversification among the industry we serve as well as geographies but what I’m encouraged about is the business mix to be able to kind of serve all aspects of the E&amp;C mix but then you also have a nice balance with some recurring revenues among the technology groups and client services and all and this underpinning work to the tune of $4 billion.
So I think it’s a nice balance between being able to after some of the very large projects and then also having that reoccurring revenue stream and all.
I would say things that I’m going to be focused over the next six months obviously is just learning the business and all I mean obviously been in this industry for a long time but I need to meet the folks got to see some projects and all.
So I’m hitting the road next week and I'll be gone off and on probably for the next six or eight weeks seeing shareholders as well as meeting some of the business folks and understand the businesses.
Okay on your second part the capital allocation and commitment to have that as a primary priority for our capital deployment over the next few years is still on track.
I think in our last earnings call we said that we would probably start implementing that in earnest the second half of the year as our cash flows continue to increase.
We feel we have a plenty of liquidity as far as the operating expenses of the company our costs are in line.
So we certainly intend to file through our target still is to reduce our share count by at least the amount that was considered in the Shaw acquisition that’s close to 10% of our stock.
We’d like to get that substantially done by the end of next year and we think looking at our cash flows and other opportunities that’s certainly achievable.
As far as divesture opportunities as I mentioned we’ve looked at number of those.
This is more of a buyer's market today at least they think than a seller's market but we’re going to be careful.
We're not going to tell you things that's less than book value on divestures is going to be and should we make divestures we’re going to plough that directly back into share repurchase full stop.
So we've got those conversations.
We’re looking constantly at how we rebalance our portfolio going forward and we’re still committed to share repurchase is our key priority goal Jamie.
Yes Jamie the other thing I would add is one of the things I really want to look at things to start looking at net return criteria’s and things like that.
So we look at the businesses and see what businesses are generating return in excess of our VAC [ph] and certainly as we think about capital allocation in the way we invest money we will take that same approach and the way I look at it always compare any really investment to return of buying our stock and so that will be the approach we take going forward.
Alrighty thanks.
I’ll get back in queue.
Thanks Jamie.
Your next question will come from Robert Norfleet with Alembic Global Advisors.
Good afternoon.
This is actually Nick Chen for Rob this afternoon.
Hi Nick.
And so you just touched on it a little bit I was hoping we could get a little more detail around just any sort of possible divestures are you expecting anything like that in 2015 and is there any interest from perspective buyers at the movement? There is no current well there is always interest I think in some of our assets but the point is all of our units are making money.
Longer-term there may be some considered more core than others in our longer term strategy.
Again we’re going to hold everyone to the standard of their ability to generate profit and cash flow and certainly their book value and what is a fairly tight market right now for divesting assets.
But we are looking at that we're well positioned whenever we structure or restructure we always take that into consideration in terms of how that’s valued in the marketplace and would that be a greater value to our shareholders if we monetize those assets.
So we’re looking at that constantly.
There is nothing currently on the screen that I could talk about but certainly we’ve had people interested in a variety of technical assets and other parts of our company but nothing immediate.
Yes I mean Nick when you think of investments or divestures we’re really going to look at that and really creating value for the shareholders and the way you do that as you determine what’s the best result and looking at returns.
So all of that will be based on it will be a very powerful analysis and be a return based analysis.
That’s really helpful.
And then secondly just in terms of the bidding environment right now what sort of competition are you seeing in the Petchem and power spaces and just especially with the lower oil and gas as the work become more competitive and sort of moving into those markets.
In the power space the concentration has been on primarily the combined cycle opportunity in the marketplace.
There are just a handful of major competitors out there that have the kind of resume and experience of these combined cycle plans and the capacities under which they operate that owners are looking at and that would be certainly the usual suspects of CB&amp;I as well as Petrofac and Zachry key wit and Fluor and JGC as some of the primary conversations not a daunting list of competitors but certainly a good list.
We have not seen anything real pricing strategies that will concern us.
It’s primarily your resume and your qualifications in the number of areas so it’s not really a pricing competition as much as just a qualification competition.
As far as LNG we’re well positioned to that particularly with our collaboration with Chiyoda between the two of us we’ve probably been involved in probably 40% to 50% of the LNG capacity in the world.
Again lot of that positioning is due to the need for bankable projects with the off take agreements and the finance of the projects.
So they need creditable qualified firms to deal with that that too is a very short list between us and Chiyoda as joint venture partners.
There are joint ventures including Fluor and JGC which is very good competition as well as Technip and a few others but again not a long list of competition for those.
Technology is very well prescribed fabrication services is more fragmented but if you look at our tank business I think one could fairly say that our position in steel plate structures in our tank business especially on the large projects is very good as well as our fabricated pipe so we are in the lead in many of our markets.
It's always competitive but we feel pretty good that our win ratios are higher than the industry average and we expect that to continue.
Yes and then Nick I mean I think you could classify that pricing has being rational and that’s really all we asked for and then really your expertise rolling out there.
That’s great that’s really helpful.
I’ll jump back in the queue now.
Thanks guys.
Okay Nick.
Your next question will come from Chase Jacobson with William Blair.
Hi good afternoon.
Mike welcome back.
Hi Chase.
Thanks Chase.
How are you doing? Good.
So I just wanted to ask another cash flow question.
One of the things that you've mentioned that would potentially you are hopefully drive cash flow over the new few quarters was billings on the nuclear projects.
Can you give any color as to what the relative importance of that is and hitting the guidance of getting cash flow from ops close to net income? And do you feel that the negotiations around the change orders create any risk to these collections on the work in the future.
Let me start I’ll let Mike add some additional color to that.
The assumptions around cash flow going forward when we did our forecast and projections for the year was very little dependent there was very little dependence upon settlement if you will of the claims.
So I mean we looked at it from the perspective of progress and progressable work based on new milestones opening up the world fronts once certain things happen critical modules are set and those types.
And so it's really built mainly on the progress of the work and additional cash flows from those projects very little was given on credit in terms of settlement of claims.
So that would be if we got some settlement claims that would be upside.
So we as we continue to work on that that environment continues to improve.
I can’t say that we’re getting a lot of great conversations and response financially from the orders and continues to discuss with our consorting partner.
So that continuously improving but our assumptions there was very little dependence on claims as an opportunity to lead our cash flow projections.
Mike you want to add anything? Yeah I men so tell you something that I think I agree with that I mean I think the the important thing is on the nuclear job we need to stay on track and on progress and I think we are to hitting the billing milestones that we had in the budgets.
And so I’ve seen no reasons while we won’t hit those milestones and then be able to timely bill and then timely collect and then the rest of really hitting our cash flow is really dependent on progressing the other job in our backlog especially some of the larger ones and again those continue to be on progress.
We are doing a great job of completing the engineering getting into procurement space that’s when you start to see some nice cash flow being generated.
Okay and then and you guys had a nice win that you announced with the Ethane Cracker.
You now have quite a bit of work in the Gulf Coast region clearly something’s outside of your projects have slowdown but I was just wondering if you could comment on the capacity there given how much work you do have in that region with the 2 LNG projects and one or two petrochem large petrochem plants? Sure engineering capacity we still have plenty of head wound in the engineering capacity we certainly have plenty of capacity in the fabrication shops for the pipes works to support that.
We are actually benefited from some of the changes in oil services and some of the offshore production platforms with reduction in force from much of that workforce.
For example many of the people that are involved in offshore production whether they be welders or engineers or other skilled crafts the difference in rates are very nominal.
The skill sets are same so we’ve actually benefited from hiring those.
We are still around 54 000 in terms of headcount despite coming down on a couple of major projects the Papua New Guinea job last year and the demobilization of our Cartagena job we still maintain our headcount pretty high level and then expect that to increase.
We’re hiring people as we speak and will continue to do so but the edge the risk if you will on the 20 000 or so people we're going to need to do our projects over the next several years certainly we’ve seen a reduction of that risk and more of an interest in coming to work for CB&amp;I that’s particularly in the direct labor address.
Okay thanks a lot.
Okay.
The next question comes from John Rogers with Davidson.
Hi good afternoon and welcome Mike as well.
Just I guess two quick follow-ups one on the cash flow on the decreased accounts payable just confirm there’s no significant contract disputes or timing issues that had come up during the quarter? No that’s I’ll let Mike expand on that but that’s a great point I’m glad you brought it up.
Now this is straight payables this is straight billing issues and are trying to getting rigorous around that whole process which we felt some frustration for a while I think that I've mentioned in previous calls.
Part of that was driven by the change in mix of our projects over the years with some huge reimbursable projects and glad to answer that we've talked about that getting a bit behind the curve on some of those but it’s not a matter they are not trapped cash and it’s not cash that’s in disputes it’s just getting the money.
Yes I mean that’s exactly right John and I think it’s really you know there are two issues.
The one is just timing of the projects.
As you have certain projects kind of ramping down and then before our other big projects ramp up I think it’s just a kind of a timing hit us and then quite frankly it’s just us paying more than we historically have paid I guess is the best way to put it.
I mean I look at my DPO and my DPO actually decreased couple of two or three days year-over-year.
Whereas my DSO improved which is good but we didn’t do it as good a job controlling the DPO from that same point.
Okay and then… But the good news in that the good news is that John is we can manage with that.
Absolutely.
We can immediately start seeing improvements on there and also the confidence I think on the other part of that the nuclear projects are part of that issue but still these are known issues and we’ll be able to show some real improvements here I think.
Okay and then Phil just in terms of power plant or the combined cycle market opportunity.
Your thoughts on what the potential market is there I mean could it rival what we’ve seen in ethane or some of the LNG work over the next couple of years we have been waiting? Yes we're really excited about it.
Yes I know well its common.
But we're really excited about it.
If you look generally on the macro levels you will know because you read the same reports still have 40% of our power generated by coal plants which have to be phased out.
We see something in the neighborhood of 70 combined cycle power plants on the list if you will in the United States a heavy concentration in the Northeast you have some out in California as well as the Southeast along the Gulf Coast as well.
And those are projects that we believe are many of them are in this next year.
We have several on our plan going forward this year.
They tend to range in the $0.5 billion plus range and they tend to be all EPC.
So we’re in a pretty good position for that and we’re aggressively pursuing those opportunities.
So we think this year you’re going to see probably more of those opportunities hit our screen than you have in the past so we’re very excited about that market.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we have time for one final question.
Your final question will come from Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
Good after noon.
Hi I was afraid you weren’t going to join us.
I snuck in.
On the dispute resolution with the nuclear plants is there a time timetable there that you can talk to us about? There is not a timetable per se.
I mean it’s a very complicated matter as you can imagine and it is more of the lawyers and the courts than it does with ours issues.
But there is a certain protocol that deals with the certainly entitlement approved for technology and for us so we backup to all that.
But there’s no timetable that I can see that I can speak to as far as when I think this is going to be resolved.
So it’s we’re approaching it and taking certain aspects of that and chunks if you will and position ourselves and negotiating through this.
But again the dispute resolution is not governed by time.
It is governed by the courts and the legal process.
Yes but Marty and Phil I think the encouraging thing is what I've heard in my time here is that the lines of communication are open.
And I think any time you're communicating and there's really three way communication between us the technology provider and the customer I think that's what's encouraging.
And also it's not like folks are not returning our phone calls and meetings are being held.
So there's good communication going on Marty and from that standpoint start and I think the business feels like we're making progress.
Great that was it from me.
Welcome back to the Engineering &amp; Construction industry Mike.
Marty I look forward to seeing you soon.
Thank you and I'll now turn the call over to Mr.
Asherman for closing remarks.
Thank you.
Well first of all let me thank everybody for participating on our call this afternoon.
As I said earlier we remain very confident in our ability to deliver revenue and earnings growth consistent with our expectations for 2015 and convert these new awards in the long-term to quality backlog.
We continue to be optimistic about our markets and prospects and it is shaping up to be another strong year.
So we appreciate your interest in CB&amp;I and your confidence in our company.
And with that that concludes our call thank you.
Once again we'd like to thank you for your participation on today's CB&amp;I first quarter 2015 financial results conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Holly and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the CB&amp;I Second Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Before beginning today's call the company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company's press release and the SEC filing.
While forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Thank you Mr.
Asherman.
You may begin.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</strong> Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we report Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron's results for the second quarter of 2015.
With me today is CB&amp;I's Chief Financial Officer Mike Taff who will discuss the company's overall financial performance.
But before we discuss our results for the quarter I'd like to highlight our safety performance.
It's an important core value as well as the key indicator to the operational performance of companies within our industry.
Now for the first six months of 2015 CB&amp;I worked over 72 million man-hours with a loss time incident rate of 0.01.
This translates to just one lost-time incident for every 18 million hours worked.
Also included in that number are over 50 projects around the world where our employees have worked at least 250 000 hours on each project without even a recordable injury.
Examples of our industry-leading performance include our multi-billion dollar refinery expansion in Cartagena Colombia with more than 108 million work hours worked at this site without a single lost-time incident.
At the mixed oxide fuel fabrication facility in South Carolina we have more than 22 million hours without a lost-time incident.
Our Gorgon MEI project in Australia is approaching 10 million hours without a lost-time incident and both the Vogtle nuclear project in Georgia and our fabrication facility in Louisiana have surpassed 6.4 million hours with zero lost-time incidents.
Now our safety record is the combination of our core values driving our organizational philosophy which relies on tools for proactive data analysis and accountability from our leadership roles for the results and is the overall responsibility of keeping everyone safe.
Our belief is zero injuries are achievable and we continue to find ways to remain at the forefront of safety practices.
And also our relentless commitment to safety is a key element to remaining an employer of choice an important differentiator that clients focus on.
Now let's turn to the quarter's results.
During this quarter we generated $3.2 billion in revenue and revenues for the first half of 2015 totaled $6.3 billion a 2% increase year-over-year despite continued negative headwinds associated with foreign exchange fluctuations.
While revenues for the first six months of the year have been negatively impacted by $390 million from foreign currency fluctuations our operating margins are still benefiting from the wind-down of our larger reimbursable projects and the ramp-up of our fixed-price projects along the Gulf Coast.
Operating income for the quarter was almost 9%.
Our net income of $170 million represents a 14% increase year-over-year.
Earnings per share for the second quarter were $1.55 and $2.76 for the first six months.
Importantly during the quarter we also generated positive net operating cash flows of $95 million representing an improvement of $320 million in net operating cash from the comparable period in 2014.
New awards totaled $2.8 billion for the quarter and included a diverse mix of size location and end markets.
Significant awards included a confidential client combined cycle gas turbine power project in the U.S.
for $600 million several maintenance services awards in North and South America engineered products in Russia and Mexico and in the U.S.
scope increases for our large nuclear projects as well as a variety of technology and fabrication awards globally.
This mix underscores the benefits of our diversified offerings versus pure EPC models.
We're also pleased to report that we have repurchased over 4 million shares in the past few weeks almost half the stock used for the Shaw transaction.
And we'll continue to be in the market with the expectation to spend up to our $200 million cap within the week.
We continue to believe that our stock is a great value and we'll focus on repurchases as a capital priority by balancing the need to reinvest in the business maintain a modest dividend and pay down debt and with balance sheet optimization as our primary goal over the foreseeable future.
Now our long-term backlog projections got a real boost this quarter when we were selected by Anadarko Petroleum Corporation along with our joint venture partners Chiyoda Corporation and Saipem to design and construct process and ancillary infrastructure associated with their LNG development program in Mozambique.
In the fourth quarter we expect to book around $3 billion which represents our share of the initial phase of the project.
But we're extremely proud of the effort of our joint venture team and their performance over many past months working with Anadarko on scope pricing execution planning organizational commitments logistics workforce – the list is very long.
But we were told by Anadarko we won not only for our LNG experience and the collective capability of our joint venture but they are most impressed with our team's transparency professionalism and the obvious confidence and trust that has been established by our three companies over the many years working together.
And we plan to be in East Africa for a very long time.
And we're proud to not only be part of one of the most important gas developments in the world but also in having an opportunity to participate in the economic growth that will result from this tremendous investment of capital skills that will contribute to a sustainable future for Mozambique.
Also in the back half of this year we're optimistic that we'll be awarded a world-scale ethane cracker in the U.S.
as we see continued development of major petrochemical projects domestically and internationally.
We're also optimistic of additional business and the growing combined cycle power generation market and we continue to expect our total traditional underpinning work across all of our end markets and businesses to be well over $4 billion of our new awards this year.
We have however faced some challenges in the business particularly in not achieving our margin expectations for fabrication services as well as a significant delay of some new awards particularly in steel plate structures which had been expected in the first half of this year.
Now we do expect that to turn around as we close in on the year and address the under-absorption in our pipe shops and award timing improves in our steel plate structure business.
This should result in around a 10% operating margin for the consolidated group which is still a couple of points lower than what we expect for that business going forward.
And as we said earlier in the year the troubling economic conditions in other parts of the world combined with a strong dollar and a sluggish China have slowed our traditional technology markets for new licenses and catalyst sales.
While maintaining nearly 40% operating margins and continued confidence in achieving our operating income targets for this year new sales are behind and will be a drag on that business for the remainder of the year which may impact our growth trajectory in Technology going into 2016.
However consistent with last quarter Technology's refining activity has been stronger than anticipated driven by the need for hydrocracking projects to meet global diesel demand.
And although gasoline demand is flat the required reformulations are creating additional need for our products.
Within our Capital Services group for our Facilities and Plant Services business the opportunities set remain solid and continues to benefit from our focus on international and end market expansion while our Federal Services business continues to experience a challenging government market.
At the end of the quarter our backlog approached $30 billion including the $270 million impact due to adverse foreign currency movements in our international backlog compared to the previous year.
During the quarter we made significant progress on our Gulf Coast projects in the United States.
Our LNG export terminals Cameron and Freeport are moving through the initial stages of development with our recruitment and training efforts continuing in full gear to staff these projects.
Our strategy of relying on traditional and non-traditional tools to attract and retain labor in the region continues to progress well.
We're leveraging our traditional tools such as robust databases forecasting analytics recruitment centers partnering with trade and community colleges and traditional advertising campaigns.
However we're also increasing our reach and scope through the use of mobile applications to reach new demographics.
These tools support our ability to engage and retain craft resources by enhancing their ability to attract future opportunities within the company and effectively transition to a new project.
And I'm also proud to highlight the fact that we added over 2 000 veterans to our employment roles over the past year.
The OxyChem ethane cracker in Ingleside Texas continues to track on schedule with progress reaching the halfway point.
As we announced earlier we recently added a new $115 million award for this project for the ethylene storage facilities at OxyChem's salt cavern location.
Also in the Gulf Coast we kicked off preliminary activities for our Shintech ethane cracker in Louisiana.
The Reficar expansion project in Cartagena Colombia is reaching completion later this year.
We continue to provide support prior to planned commission activities by the owner but all major scope has primarily been completed and personnel has been largely demobilized.
In Australia the Gorgon MEI project continues to progress as we support Chevron's efforts to hit their target dates and we continue to support Vogtle for the mechanical electrical scope and pipe fabrication supply for their LNG contract with Chevron at Wheatstone.
Now on our nuclear projects I am very happy to confirm SCANA's earlier press release that the CA01 module was set into the containment vessel today at the V.C.
Summer project.
We expect the same milestone at Vogtle shortly but the CA01 is a major structural module in the containment building of the nuclear island.
It weighs over 1 400 tons has 8 sub-assemblies and consists of 47 sub-modules and importantly will result in opening more progressable work at both sites.
Organizationally it's a very exciting time at CB&amp;I.
We currently have multiple initiatives to explore innovative ways to provide new solutions services and products to our customers and proactively continue targeting segments of the market with higher growth and potential.
For example we're developing new technology solutions to solidify our market share on heavy crude upgrading and meet new demand for higher-octane gasolines in refining.
We're also developing new offerings to our petrochemical value chain portfolio to leverage our extensive commercialization network and we continue developing the pilot plan to test the net power zero CO2 emissions technology.
And we'll be well-positioned to benefit from the current trend in demand for clean power generation as part of our joint venture with Exxon and the Three Rivers Group.
We're also strengthening our pipe-bending technology program with new product rollouts to increase our leadership position in these markets.
So the idea generation and initiatives we're currently pursuing is reflective of our proactive management of trends and one of the key benefits we derived from our integrated business model and interaction from different businesses.
Now let me turn it over to Mike who will report on the financial results for the second quarter.
Mike? Thanks Phil and good afternoon.
Let me discuss in greater detail our finance results for the quarter.
Revenue for the second quarter was $3.2 billion which was unfavorably impacted by $240 million due to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar versus prior year.
On a constant currency basis revenue was up 5% versus the prior-year quarter.
For the full year we expect foreign exchange impact on our revenue to be in the $700 million to $800 million range.
Gross profit for the second quarter totaled $383 million versus $381 million in the second quarter of 2014 with gross margins of 11.9% compared to 11.6% respectively an improvement of 30 basis points.
Year-to-date our gross margin reached $753 million versus $682 million in 2014 with gross margins of 11.9% compared to 11% an improvement of 90 basis points.
These increases were primarily a result of higher margin backlog.
Selling and administrative expense decreased to $85 million from $98 million in the second quarter of 2014.
Our S&amp;A expense was 2.7% of revenue down 30 basis points from 3% in the second quarter of 2014.
Year-to-date S&amp;A rate is 3.1% of revenue compared to 3.5% in the comparable period of 2014 an improvement of 40 basis points.
The decrease is primarily attributable to lower incentive playing costs and savings from our cost reduction initiatives.
We expect our full-year S&amp;A expense to be at or slightly less than 3% of revenue.
During the quarter we generated operating income of $284 million or 8.9% of revenue compared to adjusted income from operations of $270 million or 8.2% of revenue in the corresponding 2014 period.
This represents a 6% increase in operating income year-over-year.
Our income from operations benefited from net project savings of $16 million during the quarter.
Additionally foreign currency fluctuations during the period unfavorably impacted our operating income by $26 million relative to the comparable period in 2014.
Income tax expense in the second quarter was $79 million or 29.9% of pre-tax income compared to $73 million or 30.4% of pre-tax income for the corresponding period 2014.
For the full year we expect our expected tax rate to be within 30% to 31%.
Net income for the period was $170 million or 5.3% of revenue an increase of $21 million or 14% over adjusted net income for the comparable period in 2014.
Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $1.55 compared to adjusted earnings per share of $1.36 in the comparable period in 2014.
As Phil highlighted new awards for the second quarter totaled $2.8 billion representing a book-to-burn ratio slightly below 1.
At the end of the quarter our backlog was approximately $29.4 billion compared to $30.4 billion at year-end 2014.
The unfavorable foreign exchange impact on our backlog was approximately $270 million.
Now let's review our operating group results for the second quarter.
The second quarter revenue for Engineering Construction totaled $1.9 billion largely in line with the comparable period in 2014.
Revenue benefited from increasing link activity on our LNG export terminal projects and large nuclear projects in the U.S.
offset by net decreases in revenues in our cost reimbursable projects in the Asia Pacific region and Colombia.
E&amp;C revenue experienced a foreign exchange headwind of approximately $190 million compared to 2014 period.
Income from operations totaled $177 million or 9.2% of revenues in the second quarter compared to $133 million or 6.8% of revenues in 2014.
Our second quarter results benefited from a higher margin mix on our projects and benefited by approximately $28 million from the net impact of changes in forecast cost contractual entitlements and claims on our two U.S.
nuclear projects.
Additionally E&amp;C income reflects an adverse impact of approximately $14 million compared to the 2014 period due to lower revenues resulting from the previously mentioned foreign exchange headwinds.
Fabrication Services generated second quarter revenue of $611 million a decrease of $83 million from 2014.
Our second quarter 2015 revenue decreased due to the timing of new projects the wind-down of existing projects and headwinds related to foreign exchange fluctuations of approximately $40 million compared to the same period in 2014.
Operating income totaled $56 million or 9.2% of revenue compared to $78 million or 11.3% of revenue in 2014.
Our second quarter 2015 results were adversely impacted by low revenue volume lower margin mix and our Pipe Fabrication business and a $12 million impact from costs from project cost increases.
Technology reported revenues of $93 million compared to $102 million in the second quarter of 2014 a decrease of 9%.
The decrease was primarily due to lower catalyst volume and the timing of new awards.
Income from operations for the second quarter was $37 million approximately 40% of revenue compared to $37 million or 36% of revenues for the corresponding 2014 period.
The increase in margin is due to a more favorable mix of work during the period.
Last Capital Services generated revenues of $587 million an increase of $29 million or 5% over the comparable period primarily due to increased plant maintenance revenue.
Income from operations for the second quarter was $15 million or 2.6% of revenue compared to $22 million dollars or 3.9% of revenue in the comparable 2014 period.
The decrease is a result of reserves established during the period for uncollected receivables of approximately $7 million.
Now turning to our balance sheet cash flow and liquidity at the end of the quarter our cash balance was $355 million.
During the quarter we generated $95 million of net operating cash flows an improvement of over $320 million versus the second quarter of 2014.
Our year-to-date net operating cash usage of $195 million represents an improvement of $180 million from the comparable period in 2014.
For the first six months of 2015 we have invested $64 million in capital expenditures serviced $53 million of our debt and paid $15 million of common stock dividends.
Following the close of the quarter we entered into financing agreements to amend or extend our existing credit facilities and establish additional financing capacity based on our assessment of an attractive lending environment the ongoing growth in our end markets and our strategic initiatives.
As described in our recent Form 8-K we amended our $3.25 billion revolving credit facility to remove our barring sub-limit and amended our $650 million revolving facility to increase capacity to $800 million extend the expiration to 2020 and remove our borrowing sub-limit.
We also entered into a $500 million term loan maturing in 2020 from which we prepaid $275 million of principal due in 2017 on our existing term loan.
Additionally this week we finalized a private debt placement for $200 million in senior notes maturing in 2025.
Additional details of this debt placement will be included in our Form 10-Q.
The combination of these strategic actions increased our borrowing capacity by approximately $1.5 billion with current total available credit capacity approaching $4 billion for borrowings letters of credit and bonding capacity.
These changes strengthen our ability to execute our long-term backlog return capital to shareholders and pursue additional growth initiatives while maintaining adequate funds for our working capital needs.
Moreover this is an important strategic step towards an efficient and optimal capital structure allowing us to extend the maturities of our total debt and positioning us to implement a formal capital allocation policy in the near future that should be favorable to our shareholders.
On that topic as Phil mentioned since the close of the second quarter we have repurchased approximately 4 million shares of our stock.
During the quarter our contract capital liability position reflecting the combined balances of receivables inventory contracts in progress and accounts payable decreased by $132 million compared to a $599 million net decrease in the first quarter of 2015.
As expected we improved our management of accounts payables and received several advance payments on our U.S.
lump sum projects.
In the second quarter our large U.S.
nuclear projects increased their contract capital asset position by $325 million.
In the second half of this year we expect the net contract capital position for these projects to remain roughly at current levels – in other words cash neutral as the setting of the CA01 modules will open up numerous high-value work fronts.
Our guidance for the year remains as previously stated.
Our revenue on a constant currency basis is expected to be at the lower end of our guided range of $14.4 billion to $15.2 billion.
Also we expect our 2015 earnings per share performance to be within our range of $5.55 to $6.05 and we continue to expect cash flow from operating activities to approximate earnings for the full year.
In summary we will continue delivering on our capital allocation priorities of maintaining a flexible capital structure and delivering value to our shareholders via sustainable growth solid margins strong cash flows and returning capital to our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it back over to Phil.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</strong> Thanks Mike.
Let's open the call for your questions.
And your first question is going to come from the line of Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Hello Mike.
Good afternoon everybody and kudos Phil on hiring those veterans.
That's great news.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks Mike.
First on Technology have bids and activity accelerated given the mix of the business that you see in Technology but it's just the timing given the current energy price and uncertainty that's pushing things out to sounds like late this season from late this year early next? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Mike when we first talked about where our company may be impacted by volatile oil and gas prices we talked about Technology as certainly in some parts of the world being subjected to that softness.
And that's what we've seen.
Russia and China are a big part of our markets for many of our technologies.
And of course with the foreign exchange and the ruble to the dollar as well as the sluggishness in the Chinese economy many of those opportunities that we saw in the first half of the year seem to be shifting to – are shifting to the right.
But counter to that it certainly is the ethylene opportunities here in the United States and the Middle East.
We're seeing some interesting refining technologies around Appalachia and other areas that are showing some real improvement.
So it's a mix.
It's not a – I don't think it's a sustained issue.
It's just one that contracts push to the right but we feel pretty confident that that money will be spent because those process units will have to be built.
But I think even with the mix of work their income projections for the year are still solid.
The sales line may cause some softening in next year but we're going to have to wait and see later in the year before we can forecast that.
I appreciate that.
My follow up Phil is as you look at your underpinning business that you talked about the $4 billion this year of new order opportunities is that still kind of hanging in there giving the uncertainties you've seen? Is it more geographically – more better U.S.
less so rest of the world? And is that where the diversity comes in with certainly on the structured products et cetera that you guys can turn to in this volatility? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Yeah it's all the above.
Actually that's been fairly well predictable even with the other uncertainties.
These are projects and process units optimizations those type of things which refineries and other gas processing and other type of facilities continue to need to spend.
And that would also include all the Plant Services work and so the in-plant type work that we see around the world.
It would also include some engineering work that we do out of our European offices.
So that in totality is going to be at least $4 billion.
Some of that also is added by our Fabrication Services where much our underpinning work is almost the predominant part of our new award outlook for this year.
So it's quite different.
But the big driver of our backlog as you know is our Engineering and Construction work and that's roughly around 65% of our new awards this year.
And we see that trend to continue going into 2016.
And one final quick follow-up maybe for Mike.
You mentioned about the share repurchase in July.
Did you or Phil indicate that that and just in a little while that's going to be it for the year with the $200 million? Is there flexibility in that given the recapitalization you're going through right now? Just want to clarify on that.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Let me take part of that and then turn that over to Mike for some additional detail.
Remember I think we said early in the year that our goal was to initiate a share repurchasing plan over 2015 and 2016 that at a minimum would eliminate the $9 million of shares in our share count associated with the Shaw acquisition.
We had some headwinds to that in that we have a debt constraint that would allow us only to spend $200 million until we get below a 1.5 debt ratio.
We're not quite there yet so we still have that $200 million limit.
What presented an opportunity as you know is kind of a trifecta of opportunities between Greece China and the volatility in the oil prices drop in the oil prices which broke us through our 200-day moving average which started our 10b and allowed us to aggressively buy some stock.
So it was a great opportunity to do that.
Having said that we possibly could get back in the market if some things happen.
But as we continue to reduce our debt that'll still be a priority for our capital plans.
So Mike? Yeah.
No I think Phil said it all.
Certainly we are limited at this point based on our debt-to-EBITDA ratio being slightly above 1.5.
But as we think about a long-term kind of formal capital allocation plan that I'd like to see us roll out over the next 12-plus months that would certainly envision a continued return of capital to our shareholders based on the strong cash flow we see us generating in the near future.
Excellent gentlemen.
Thank you.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Thanks Mike.
Your next question comes from the line of Chase Jacobson with William Blair.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Hello Chase.
Hi.
Good Afternoon.
Hey Chase.
So I guess just first a detail question.
Phil you mentioned that there was some scope increases on the nuclear projects.
You also Mike talked about cost improvements.
Can you just quantify any of that? Particularly with the scope increases is that approved or unapproved or anything that it's specifically related to? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Well I think we've had a lot of conversation over previous quarters about the additional cost and scope associated with the projects.
So that's certainly part of that.
I don't have the number.
Mike do you? Yeah.
Total increase for both projects was around $500 million and primarily related to the shield building.
And a significant piece of that related to a number of our subcontractors all related to the number of design changes and all.
So those were quantifications that we received in this quarter and therefore we booked those increases in cost.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> What was the second part of the question Chase? Well no it was just around the cost improvements but I think you actually quantified that.
So – and I guess from a bigger picture standpoint we're hearing a lot of different things in the marketplace from a lot of different companies about the speed at which a lot of these LNG or chemical projects are moving forward.
You guys have a good pipeline but you did talk about some challenges in some of the markets.
I was wondering if you could just comment on the competitive environment as we go forward here.
As you know some of these chemical project investment decisions get delayed.
Is the pricing getting tougher or is it holding steady? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> We continue to be very confident – and if you would just want to talk about petrochemical for a minute.
We had acknowledged that although there were many petrochemical projects out there we had probably seven that were on our immediate horizon that we were going to focus on.
We've been awarded three of those between Williams and OxyChem and Shintech.
We expect another large one that as Mike likes to say on the lip of the cup if you will.
Before the end of the year that will be awarded and we expect to see another one or two in 2016.
On the competitive environment that are the usual suspects here in the U.S.
We've been fortunate in that most of the competition in the U.S.
are U.S.
contractors.
So they would be the major tier contractors that you would expect to see list but very few of them.
Again the advantage that we would have in the ones that we've selected is our ability to provide the technology.
And typically if you can provide the technology and demonstrate that you have a good delivery solution our opportunity and our ability or probability to win that job is very very high.
And so that's what we target on for the U.S.
In the international markets it's much the same except the list.
The competitive list gets very I guess a lot broader.
We have a number of European and Japanese firms competing for that as well.
So it's a little bit tougher environment.
You probably see more pricing pressure on that.
So we're very cautious on those jobs.
We're very selective in terms of locations.
Most of work that we see are particularly in the Gulf region as opposed to other parts of the Middle East.
So we're seeing those.
But again there's no indication that those won't go forward.
So as far as LNG I think the work in the U.S.
that we've been projecting relative to Golden Pass for example is still working in a very preliminary stage.
The work at Elba Island of course with Kinder Morgan buying the assets from Shell we're continuing to work on that; as well as still feel that the Lake Charles work for BG has traction but again I think that will take some time given the Shell BG discussions.
But they still are very viable.
Most of them if not all of them have passed the initial hurdles as far as permitting.
So there's every reason to believe over the next couple of years those will go forward.
And then on top of that we continue to see discussion around additional expansion for the LNG facilities we currently have under way right now.
So LNG is still a big part of it and of course with East Africa we think that's a program that we're going to be involved in for decades.
So we're very excited about that.
So there's a lot of that around.
We see our backlog from LNG extending way past 2025.
And so it'll be a big part of our business for a long time.
Got you.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Okay.
Your next question will come from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Hello Steve.
Hi Phil.
Hi Steve.
Hey Mike.
Just on the cash flow good to see the progress there.
Just to clarify: first target.
I think you said – approximating net income I think you've also said in the past $500 million to $600 million.
Are those (37:57) to be consistent? And then could you just maybe give us a little bit of a roadmap on how the next few quarters could play out in terms of the gains to that? Is it going to be sort of steady or a bit lumpy? And maybe how much of that depends on procurement payments versus nuclear thing (38:15) versus other? Hey Steve.
Yeah you read my mind.
Yeah I think the $500 million to $600 million is a good number and that's kind of the range we've been using and that approximates net income.
And net income will be slightly north of $600 million based on our current EPS guidance.
As far as cash flow absolutely you'll see some lumpiness and I think it'll be progressively stronger in Q4 versus Q3.
But that's pretty normal for historical industry standards and certainly for CB&amp;I and all.
I think the big estimate here as it relates to the nuclear jobs I think getting those jobs to cash flow neutral is an important element of hitting that overall goal for the company but certainly we can see that happening because when you look at the increase in collections in the second half of the year versus the first half of the year it's significant with a number of those high-value work fronts improving.
And then secondly as you just mentioned from a procurement standpoint on the new jobs we see significantly less procured items and procured dollars going out in the second half of the year versus for the first half of the year.
So the combination of those two items alone on the nuclear side we see an improvement in cash flow related to the nuclear jobs in the $500 million-plus range second half compared to the first half of the year.
Okay.
So there's no timing on some of the LNG payments that we need to worry about shifting around or out of this year or anything? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> No.
Steve this is Phil.
The progress on those jobs are as anticipated and any down payments associated with new rewards this year certainly are baked into our forecast.
So those are very good in terms of cash generation.
We don't see anything to disrupt that.
Okay.
And just on bookings you've done around $5.8 billion year-to-date.
I know you're not guiding to official bookings so loosely you were targeting something around last year around $16 billion.
I know you've still got Mozambique and ethylene crackers gas plant underpinning it.
When I add it up it still seems like it might be $2 billion shy of that last-year number.
Is there anything else big that we're not thinking of? I mean it doesn't sound like you had any specific LNG projects in there.
Anything else we're missing? Yeah Steve.
No you're exactly right.
But no let me just give you a couple of numbers I think that will get you there because I was doing kind of the mental math yesterday as well.
So if you say current year-to-date we're on that $6 billion mark $5.8 billion we'll talk about underpinning it'll be another additional $2 billion plus in the back half of the year.
And then when you just take the couple of big awards that Phil had mentioned between the ethylene cracker and Mozambique that's well north of $4 billion in all.
And so you add to that that gets you up in that $12 billion plus range right there just adding those two or three numbers together.
And then to get us to where we think we need to be in that $15 billion $16 billion range you've got another $2.5 billion $3 billion award.
And Phil I think there's a number of things in the pipeline that easily get us over that hurdle.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean keep in mind we have other parts of the business including Fabrication Services and Capital Services which certainly add to that top line of new awards.
So we feel pretty confident.
We said at the beginning of the year it's going to be very back end loaded.
But as far as new awards approximating what we did last year I think we're still pretty confident we can get there.
Timing is always the question mark but we think there's a lot still left in the pipeline.
I think one interesting thing we've noted too is that the new business next year when we start talking about our guidance and plan for next year seems to be even more robust than it was this year.
So we see our funnel going into next year improving significantly than what we saw this year.
So we're quite encouraged by that.
Sounds good.
Thanks a lot.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> All right.
Thanks Steve.
Your next question will come from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
Good afternoon.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Hello Martin.
Congratulations on a good quarter.
Thanks Marty.
I just wanted to maybe follow up on the last question in terms – when you look out into 2016 what are some of the areas where you're seeing strength and potential new awards? Is it on the power side domestically that you're confident on? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Well I don't have a specific breakdown.
I can generally tell you that when you look at our concentration of work it's pretty close to what we've seen this year with the exception that our concentration in North America will only increase.
I think we'll probably end this year with work roughly split about 60% in the U.S.
with the rest remaining somewhere else in the world.
Of course Africa tilts that scale.
I mean at some point it's going to be a split between Africa and the U.S.
and a heavy concentration in LNG.
So we still see some combined cycle power generation certainly continuing into next year.
I think probably only about 15% of our backlog is going to come from somewhere outside the U.S.
which is a huge shift for us considering a few years ago where 90% of our work was somewhere outside the U.S.
So that's an interesting change for us but a very good change for us.
So we see some interesting opportunities in the Middle East and elsewhere.
Again East Africa I can't talk enough about the impact it's going to have on us long-term but certainly we will see I think some more LNG coming in this next year with some of the projects I mentioned as well as some additional combined cycle awards as well as everything outside the mix of work that we have or the mix of businesses we have.
Okay.
Yeah Marty.
This is Mike.
We certainly – just to add to that briefly I mean certainly power is an area that we see strength over the next I'd say up to five years.
We're tracking 65 to 75 plants that we think will be moving from fossil into the natural gas arena and those projects still – I mean those are typically in that $500 million to $700 million range.
But those are nice-sized projects Marty.
Okay.
And then on the steel-plate structures side you mentioned there's been some delay in rewards and kind of surprised given all the LNG and petrochemical and NGL export facilities projects that are going on.
Could you talk maybe more about where those delays are and confidence that you have that those awards are going to come through? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Well there are a couple of very large ones that impacted that.
We were getting a number of – we're still selling a lot of spears in that business and a lot of smaller work around (45:31).
But we had a couple large ones which shifted to the left.
If I were a betting man I'd probably say that one of the larger ones will probably be announced pretty soon.
So that has already corrected itself.
And then there's Middle Eastern projects that we're looking at.
We're going to have to work through some of the terms to get comfortable with that so I don't know whether that will develop or not.
So it was really just a matter of the new awards that we're expecting to have in the first half of the year shifting to the other side and making them up for some other works.
So the business is still real solid but we just had that anticipation of some business that just didn't drop this first half.
Okay.
Thank you.
I'll turn it back.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> All right.
Thanks Marty.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Thanks Marty.
Your next question will come from the line of John Rogers with D.
A.
Davidson.
Hi.
Good morning or good afternoon.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Good morning John.
Hey John.
I guess Phil just on the Fabricating Services or Fabrication Service s at this point how much of that work is associated with upstream projects either in backlog or current run rates? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> You're talking about LNG – including LNG? No not including LNG.
Sorry.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Okay.
Very small.
Very small.
Okay.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Yeah.
Very little.
It's – we've got a few – if you're talking about pipe fabrication or steel-plated structures...
Yeah and I guess everything.
I'm just trying to think about relative pricing commodity pricing risks (47:11).
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Right.
Well actually that's...
...and trying to understand that think about how that might impact bookings or opportunities going forward.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Yeah.
Well maybe 5% of upstream purely.
But I think maybe and a way to look at it is that if you look at just the backlog associated with our own engineering construction work that creates about a $20 billion addressable market that really hasn't taken off yet for our pipe fabrication and much of our tank work.
So that's in addition to what other markets we can capitalize on for other owners and other contractors.
So that's why we're pretty excited.
I think on the pipe side when I was talking about under-absorption and margins we really think that when we look at the market they have and the ability to sell at the rates that they sell at with some again additional concentration better efficiencies and different ways of doing our work we ought to be able to raise those margins a couple points.
And with the volume that we think we can get out of that business that's a tremendous opportunity to drive more profitability to the bottom line.
So that's why we talk about that a lot.
So we think there's a huge opportunity there to continue to capitalize on that business.
So we'll be talking that in future quarters but something to keep an eye on.
Okay.
And then just in terms I guess especially on the Capital Services side to the business I was under the impression you guys were thinking about what you were going to do with portions or parts of that business longer-term as it relates to government.
Are you through that process now? And I mean – or is it still possible for restructurings or changes there? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Well the Capital Services are – two parts to that.
There's the Federal Services which is pretty much ring-fenced and dedicated to those type of businesses for the federal government and related kind of projects.
And then you have the other side of Capital Services which are Planned Services Nuclear Maintenance Services a lot of smaller construction Capital Services for the plants tend to be very similar in terms of margin opportunity and a very high labor concentration in those.
So they're all kind of similar in what they do just different kind of businesses and industries.
So very diverse.
That's all very interesting to us.
They're all making money.
They're certainly not dilutive much on the business but still if we had an asset that isn't core or wouldn't be core to our long-term future and many of our analysts have suggested that perhaps federal services may fall in that category certainly we would consider looking at making a change there if we had the right offer.
Okay.
Thank you.
Appreciate the help.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> All right John.
Thanks John.
Your next question will come from the line of Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Hey Vishal.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
I guess my question is on the margins; the margins in the second quarter on the E&amp;C side came slightly better than expected.
How should we think about the balance of the year and what drove the outperformance in the margin side? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Well we were very pleased to say the least on the margins.
Probably longer term we still though would say that on a run rate basis or year-over-year basis I would caution to guide you any more than just what's been our traditional bandwidth for those margins although I would suggest that we probably look at the top of that operating margin bandwidth of around 7% as kind of a norm.
We're going to have some quarters that are going to be much better and some quarters that may not be but I think what we see in our business there hasn't been – we haven't any reason to believe (51:06) much beyond that.
The conditions just – we're performing very well.
So as long as we do that perhaps incrementally that'll improve.
And 1% as you know on the kind of volume we drive could make some huge difference.
So we're continuing to push that up but sustainable we're not there yet.
So I would probably look at 7% as the margin to use modeling going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Appreciate that.
And just to clarify the operating cash flow guidance of $500 million to $600 million that includes the impact of the FX right? And then also just as you think about the capital program will the buyback be dependent to some extent on your hitting the cash flow targets? Or would that be independent? Yeah.
Well no it certainly would include the FX.
And no the buyback is more predicated on our leverage ratio.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Nicholas Chen with Ablemic Global.
Hi.
This is Nick Chen for Rob Norfleet this afternoon.
Thanks for taking my question guys and congratulations on a solid quarter.
Just looking back into the nuclear projects I was hoping we could get a little deeper into the unaccounted change orders.
I know we touched on it before.
Earlier you had mentioned that there were over 3 000 so I was wondering if we could quantify that a little bit more.
Well not so much on the total but yeah the total volume didn't change significantly.
It did – we did have a slight uptick in that.
I think the total amount of the change orders and all that you'll see in the 10-Q is about $1.28 billion.
And then what we've recognized as revenue associated with those is a little bit north of $400 million of which I think we've been paid about $210 million.
And all those details will be in the Form 10-Q that we get – that we'll get filed tomorrow morning.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Let me just clarify I think what you may have thought.
That 3 000 number was an absolute number of design adjustments that we've made.
Now not all that results in a change order.
Some of that is taken up in the original scope.
It only becomes cost if we've already started the work and have to change the work.
So it just – it really is an order of magnitude number to try to explain that this is a very complicated technology that we're dealing with.
And how the – and the concurrent design with the fabrication creates those kind of challenges.
But not all those 3 000 change orders result in additional cost.
They were just a number of changes.
But that was really meant to just describe that process more so than just the additional cost.
All right.
Thank you.
That clarification's very helpful.
And then just a final question.
Looking at the S&amp;A number it was definitely better than what we had forecasted.
Is that a sustainable level going forward? Or how should we think about that? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Well we work hard on that.
We'd like to think that was pretty sustainable.
We've been consistently under 3% or right around 3% and that's where we like to be.
There's nothing that we're spending around here that would suggest that we're going to need to get beyond that.
So we work hard on that.
We think that's a good range 2.8% to 3% maybe a little over 3% some quarters but that's where we'd like to keep it.
Yup.
I think that percentage is exactly right.
I think if we can stay in that 2.8% to 3% long term I think we'll – I think it's a good place to be.
All right.
And sorry one last final question if that's okay.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Sure.
I saw a headline recently that NuGen signed a contract where they're going to be using three of Westinghouse's AP1000 reactors.
Just looking ahead at the grand scheme of things for nuclear projects if there any way you guys – how would you envision yourselves getting involved in a project like that? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Right now we're just concentrating on completing the projects that we have in front of us.
There's been a lot of speculation about new development.
There's a lot of discussion in Washington about how nuclear is going to fit into the energy policy going forward but it's going to take a while.
So right now we've got a lot of ways to address the nuclear industry.
Remember it's not just new builds it's also nuclear maintenance it's decommissioning work it's a lot of different services work so – and we do very well there.
We're also providing some project management support on the international projects in China which we'd be happy to do if any of those projects developed as well.
But right now we're just looking at the project ahead of us and doing the best job we can to try to get those over the finish line and make those the safest and most reliable plants out there.
So that's how we see our role.
Understood.
Thanks so much guys.
Thanks Nick.
And it appears we have time for one final question.
Your final question will come from the line of Jeff Volshteyn with JPMorgan.
Thank you for taking...
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Hi Jeff.
Hi.
Thank you for taking my question.
I wanted to ask a few small questions on the nuclear projects and it's really about the updates to any sort of a timeline and the tone of the conversations that you have with various parties about previous disputed amounts.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> What is specifically your question? Is there an update to the timeline where you might get some resolution on this? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Well it's a work in progress.
Again there's no denying there's a tremendous number of commercial disputes that we're working with.
It's a balance between appropriately dealing with those disputes and still trying to get these projects built.
So all the above in terms of the licensees and the technology providers and the consortium are working hard to do that.
I can't give you a timeline.
There's no judgments or any other final decrees that would – that I could tell you that things would be determined.
But we're trying to get this through settlement not through the courts but – so I really don't have an answer.
But we freely admit that that certainly is one of the overhanging issues affecting certainly our share price and the narrative around these projects and we would love to find a conclusion of that.
And we certainly are investigating several pathways to get there but at a minimum we want to keep these things cash-neutral and would hope that by the end of the year we've got this situation stabilized.
Yeah Jeff I mean I think if you just look at near-term I think we're – I'm pretty optimistic about getting these projects back to cash neutral.
Just when I look at the scheduled payments that we have for the second half of the year versus the first half essentially we're – if we hit the milestones that we think we're capable of hitting in addition we have been successful just very recently in moving some milestones forward from 2016 into the back half of 2015.
Those two components combined would result in cash flows about twice as – double the amount of cash flows in the second half of the year versus the first half of the year.
So we certainly view that as positive.
That's helpful.
And then following up on the same subject can you help us frame is there any exposure for CB&amp;I from the accounts in restatement at Toshiba and Westinghouse whenever we start seeing the numbers coming through? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> We have not seen any impact.
The only – we don't have any more insight than you have from what's being printed in the media.
We have been assured though by Westinghouse that their business has not been affected by that and Westinghouse has a tremendous authority in terms of their ability to meet the commitments on the projects in which we're involved in.
So we've not seen any impact and we don't have any other information to the contrary.
That's helpful.
And a couple of questions on the guidance.
Did I get this right that the tax rate that you expect now is down a little bit from the previous estimate? I think it's pretty consistent.
I said in kind of the 30% to 31% range.
And was it a little bit higher in the past 31% to 33%? It could have been slightly but I think still in that 30% 31% range is a good range for the year.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Yeah I think historically that's where we've landed.
I think we had a little bit of improvement this quarter but generally we've suggested or guided to around 30% or 31%.
Great.
Last question on the share account.
What share account do you imply in your year-end guidance? Is that the second quarter kind of minus 4 million? Yeah.
I think you just have to do that weighted average.
So I think that's a good way to do it.
Just make sure you weighted average the shares that we've indicated we bought in the month of July and then that'd be a good share count to use for the full year.
Excellent.
Thank you.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
That will conclude the Q&amp;A session of today's conference call.
I'll turn the conference call back over to Mr.
Asherman for closing remarks.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</strong> Thank you.
In closing let me thank everybody for participating on our call this afternoon.
As we enter into the third quarter 2015 is shaping up to be another strong year for CB&amp;I.
We're optimistic about our markets and prospects and we remain confident in our ability to deliver revenue and earnings growth and convert new awards into long-term quality backlog.
So we appreciate your interest in CB&amp;I and your confidence in our company.
This concludes our call.
Thank you.
Once again we'd like to thank you for your participation on today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Holly and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the CB&amp;I Third Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Before beginning today's call the company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company's press release and the SEC filing.
While forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Thank you Mr.
Asherman.
You may begin the conference.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</strong> Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we report Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron's results for the third quarter of 2015.
With me today is CB&amp;I's Chief Financial Officer Mike Taff who will discuss the company's overall financial performance.
But first I would like to focus on our commitment to safety.
We worked more than 107 million hours in the first nine months of 2015 on literally hundreds of projects around the world and recorded six-lost time incidents primarily non-severe at an incident rate of 0.01%.
One of the best if not an industry standard for contractors oil companies subcontractors and general industrial companies when benchmarked against the Construction Industry Institute's index.
And we have 31 sites that have worked a million hours or more where that was zero lost-time incidents.
Two particularly outstanding project records include Ecopetrol's Reficar project in Cartagena Colombia which has surpassed 110 million work hours without a lost-time incident.
And the MOX Project at the Savannah River Site in South Carolina which has surpass 25 million work hours without a lost-time incident.
Now our safety record is a key reason we continue to be an employer of choice in the industry with the proven ability to hire and retain skilled workers.
In the last week CB&amp;I announced that Westinghouse will acquire a nuclear construction business.
The transaction is well documented in the press release and the 8-K filings last week.
And I'll leave it to Mike to add color to the accounting.
But I do want to say this is a great point of transition the project to Westinghouse.
Both projects have accumulated millions of man-hours without a serious injury.
The nuclear culture and quality standards as required by the NRC are firmly at place at both sites.
Where there is union labor we have been successful in working with the building trains – building trades to maintain a productive and talented workforce.
And we've achieved many important milestones and the rebased line schedule and cost projections have provided a credible pathway to the completion of both projects.
Now it's rare in our industry to find a solution to a complex issue of this magnitude for each of the parties involved wins.
And we view this transaction as a positive reset for our shareholders the licensees Westinghouse and ultimately the people of South Carolina and Georgia.
Now let's turn to the third quarter results.
New awards totaled approximately $4 billion.
We booked almost $10 billion in new awards year-to-date and our backlog of almost $30 billion includes the $450 million negative impact from adverse foreign currency translation due to the strong dollar.
Income from operations on an adjusted non-GAAP basis for the first three quarters of 2015 totaled $801 million a 10% increase over the same period last year.
For the quarter we generated revenues of $3.3 billion which also includes a $290 million negative foreign currency impact.
And CB&amp;I's adjusted net income for the quarter was approximately $164 million or $1.54 per diluted share.
Now during the quarter we announced an early works agreement with a joint venture between Axiall Corporation and the Lotte Chemical Corporation for an ethane cracker to be build in Louisiana.
We also announced the signing of an early works agreement with Lotte Chemical for the adjacent monoethylene glycol unit or MEG which is derived from ethylene.
As an important raw material for industrial applications such as polyester fibers films and fabrics as well as polyethylene used in bottling.
MEG also is important in the production of antifreezes coolants de-icers and solvents.
These projects combined are estimated at nearly $2 billion.
Other key awards for the third quarter include a $300 million Storage Tank Award by Sunoco for the expansion of the Marcus Hook industrial complex in Pennsylvania.
$100 million award by a major chemical corporation for the EPC of a specialty chemicals plant in the Gulf Coast region a contract by Total for our ethylene technology in feed services for a new ethane cracker in Texas as well as multiple industrial and power maintenance contracts.
And we're confident in our ability to convert major prospects into new backlog in the fourth quarter of 2015 and throughout 2016 while sustaining robust margins and maximizing operating cash flow performance.
Our LNG export terminals with Freeport LNG and Cameron LNG are making solid progress as the projects transition to the field.
Additionally we continue to support these two projects and their evaluation of potential capacity expansion.
Anadarko Mozambique LNG is working preliminary plan with us in preparation for final EPC contracts signing by year's end or early January.
The company has stated publicly that they are confident of reaching an FID by the front half of next year so we remain very confident that this important project will proceed as planned and our joint venture is mobilizing to support Anadarko in every aspect of the early works program.
We also continue to see positive developments in petrochemicals.
Our current projects in the Gulf now include our ethane cracker in Ingleside for OxyChem Mexichem.
The Shintech Toyo cracker in Louisiana.
And the early construction works for the Axiall Lotte ethylene plant in Louisiana I mentioned including work for the Monoethylene Glycol unit.
We're particularly encouraged by this development as the first what we expect to be many developments on derivative plants to transform ethylene into higher value products in the manufacturing process.
We also see near-term petrochemical prospects in the Middle East as the region continues to diversify into higher value derivatives.
Specifically Oman Oil Refineries &amp; Petroleum Industries or ORPIC will soon announce the contractor of choice for the first package of the steam cracker in Oman for Liwa Plastics Project using CB&amp;I technology and feed work.
If successful we expect this project to be a multi-billion dollar EPC contract before year end.
We're also currently working on three-combined cycle power plants with an aggregative value of nearly $2 billion on a curved backlog and believe CB&amp;I is well positioned to capture our share of a solid long-term market.
The issuance of the long anticipated clean power plan rule in August supports gas-fired generation as a favorite source of power that is perceived as a low-risk solution.
In our Technology Group after a slow start this year due to economic headwinds in China and a strong dollar elsewhere the technology market is turning around.
Our joint-venture with Chevron had significant awards in the quarter including a heavy oil upgrader award in Thailand a hydrocracker in Russia a delayed coker in India and two large catalyst orders.
We're also awarded the licenses for the Total ethylene project to U.S.
FCC revamp an Indonesian butadiene plant and CATOFIN and OCT expansions as well as major catalyst bookings associated with polypropylene and Tier-3 gasoline initiatives.
The outlook for our technology business is promising.
The refining side of the industry remains more active in both the United States and China.
Heavy oil hydrocracking has a number of strong prospects as do gasoline de-sulfurization projects required to meet mandated Tier-3 specifications.
On the petrochemical side the best prospects are new ethylene plants expansion of international liquid crackers and CATOFIN projects to butanes or propane.
There is also strong interest in polypropylene licenses.
Our capital services operating group has seen a trend towards increased profitability from the past year partly due to the benefits of cost saving initiatives put in place earlier in the year.
Our recent successes in power maintenance and industrial maintenance are good examples of how our customers view the savings and the value we add to their existing facilities.
The strategies we've been putting in place for our capital services business capitalize on CBI's existing relationships and global footprint to broaden our existing services: maintenance environmental and disaster response including continuous Hurricane Sandy clean up and activities associated with the recent severe flooding in parts of the U.S.
Our fabrication services group has a strong backlog as a result of robust sales in ethylene heaters pipe spools and process modules pressure spheres low temperature liquid storage tanks and storage tanks for liquid terminals.
We successfully completed a number of L&amp;G storage and peak shaving projects in China and Australia in the second half of 2015 and we've mobilized on a number of pressure sphere and storage tank projects in the U.S.
Canada Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
North America and the Middle East remain our strongest market for fabrication work moving forward.
Operationally our fabrication facilities have been rationalized and investments made to increase production at reduced cost.
So how is 2016 shaping up? We remain confident in our capacity to maintain and grow our backlog by focusing on the right projects customers and end markets where we have a competitive advantage.
As most of you know we've changed our Investor Day to quarter one of next year so that we can properly assess the impact of some major awards expected before the middle of January and we'll then provide 2016 guidance.
But on a preliminary basis our backlog is expected to grow between 5% and 7% in 2016 with an anticipated burn rate of approximately 35% to 40%.
On an adjusted basis revenue and earnings should grow by double-digits and operating cash flow should approximate net income.
Our total funnels of opportunities for 2016 is around $65 billion to $70 billion of addressable market opportunities which is actually a decrease from the average $85 billion to $87 billion we've seen over the past several years.
The reasons for this decrease should be fairly apparent.
We've given our win ratio in our primary end markets averaging well over 60%.
We still expect to book $14 billion to $16 billion again in 2016.
But the mix is changing as well and anticipated to include approximately 25% to 30% in LNG and 35% to 50% in petrochemical and refining opportunities.
Combined cycle power generation is around 12% to 15% of the total with the remainder spread between fabrication services technology and capital services.
Geographically we expect new awards to be concentrated approximately 50% in North America with Africa and the Middle East dominating the remainder of the prospects.
Relatively few new major projects in Europe South America and Asia-Pacific.
As to our capital allocation plan Mike will provide more details.
But post transaction we expect to accelerate our use of capital for debt reductions share repurchases and growth initiatives throughout 2016.
And as we stated before our debt covenants restrict stock repurchases over $200 million until our debt-to-EBITDA ratio is below 1.5.
But the initial focus is buying the remaining shares outstanding associated with the 2013 acquisition and this year we purchased over 4.5 million shares towards that goal.
We'll continue to prioritize share buybacks as cash flow builds positive momentum this next year.
Other uses of cash will include the CapEx associated with NET Power and our catalyst facility we're building with our partner Clarient (13:34).
Each investment once up and running will provide an internal rate of return over 40% which will be an important part of our 2017 and beyond plan.
So we expect CapEx for these two investments to total about $35 million to $40 million in 2016.
So let me turn it over to Mike who will report the financial results of the third quarter.
Mike? Thanks Phil and good afternoon everyone.
Let me discuss in greater detail our financial results for the quarter.
Before reviewing our results let me highlight that we will be discussing adjusted balances on a non-GAAP basis which exclude a third quarter non-cash after-tax charge of $904 million resulting from the company's recently announced divestment of our nuclear construction business.
We believe adjusted balances are a better indication of our future operating performance.
As we discussed last week the nuclear construction disposition which we expect to close in the fourth quarter will facilitate the achievement of our capital allocation goals via improved operating cash flows and reduced working capital requirements.
The $904 million after-tax charge for the quarter relates to the write-down of working capital primarily unbilled receivables in our contract in progress account also fixed assets net deferred taxes and goodwill and intangible asset impairments.
We have provided a table with a reconciliation of non-GAAP information in our earnings release and additional information will be available in our Form 10-Q to be filed shortly.
Revenue for the third quarter was $3.3 billion which was unfavorably impacted by $290 million from the strengthening U.S.
dollar versus the comparable period in 2014.
On a constant currency basis revenue was up 7% versus the prior quarter – prior year quarter.
For the full year we expect the foreign currency impact on our revenue to be between $800 million and $900 million.
Gross profit for the third quarter totaled $378 million versus $393 million in the third quarter of 2014 with gross margins of 11.4% compared to 11.6% respectively.
Year-to-date our gross profit reached $1.13 billion versus $1.08 billion in 2014 with gross margins of 11.7% compared to 11.2% an improvement of 50 basis points.
These increases are primarily a result of higher margin backlog and higher leverage of our operating cost.
Selling and administrative expense was $94 million or 2.8% of revenue in the third quarter of 2015.
Year-to-date our S&amp;A rate is 3% of revenue compared to 3.2% in the comparable period of 2014 an improvement of 20 basis points year-over-year.
The decrease is primarily attributable to lower incentive playing costs and savings from our cost reduction initiatives.
We expect our full year S&amp;A expense to be at or slightly less than 3% of revenue.
During the quarter we generated adjusted operating income of $271 million or 8.1% of revenue compared to adjusted operating income of $291 million or 8.6% of revenue in the corresponding 2014 period.
Year-to-date adjusted operating income of $801 million or 8.3% of revenue compares to $731 million or 7.6% of revenue for the comparable period in 2014.
That's an improvement of 70 basis points.
As a result of the charge recorded in the quarter we generated a income tax benefit for the third quarter of $187 million or 20.5% of our pre-tax loss.
Excluding the impacts of the charge income tax expense for the quarter was $69 million or 27.8% of adjusted pre-tax income compared to income tax expense of $85 million or 31.3% of pre-tax income for the corresponding 2014 period.
For the full year excluding the effects of the charge we expect our effective tax rate to be in the 28% to 30% range.
Adjusted net income for the period was $164 million or 4.9% of revenues compared to $165 million or 4.9% revenues in the comparable period in 2014.
Year-to-date adjusted net income was $466 million compared to $407 million for the comparable period of 2014 representing a 14% increase year-over-year.
For the quarter adjusted diluted earnings per share were $1.54 compared to $1.51 for the comparable period in 2014.
As Phil highlighted new awards for the third quarter totaled $4 billion and exceeded revenues by $679 million representing a book-to-burn ratio of 1.2.
At the end of the quarter our backlog was approximately $29.9 billion including a year-to-date adverse foreign exchange impact of approximately $450 million.
That's comparable to our levels at year-end 2014.
Now let's review the operating group results for the third quarter.
Third quarter revenues for Engineering Construction totaled $1.9 billion largely in line with the comparable period in 2014.
Revenue benefited from increasing activities on our LNG projects in the U.S.
offset by net decreases in revenues on our cost reimbursable projects in the Asia Pacific region and Colombia.
E&amp;C revenue experienced an FX headwind of an approximately $240 million compared to the 2014 period.
Adjusted income from operations excluding the loss related to the nuclear business disposition totaled $153 million or 7.9% of revenue in the third quarter compared to $155 million or 7.7% of revenues in 2014.
Our third quarter E&amp;C operating income reflects an adverse impact of approximately $18 million compared to the 2014 period due to lower revenue resulting from the previously mentioned FX headwinds.
Fabrication Services generated third quarter revenue of $640 million a decrease of $64 million from the comparable period in 2014.
Our third quarter 2015 revenue decreased due to the timing of new projects completion of storage work in the Asia Pacific region and headwinds related to FX of approximately $40 million compared to the same period in 2014.
Income from operations totaled $61 million or 9.6% of revenues compared to $68 million or 9.9% of revenues in the third quarter of 2014.
Our third quarter 2015 results were adversely impacted by lower revenue volumes and net cost increases on various projects in the U.S.
of approximately $13 million.
Technology reported revenue of $118 million compared to $90 million in the third quarter of 2014 an increase of 32%.
The increase was primarily due to higher catalyst volume.
Income from operations for the third quarter was $32 million approximately 27% of revenues compared to $39 million or 43% of revenues for the corresponding 2014 period.
The decrease in income from operations was due to a lower margin mix of work and lower equity earnings associated with our unconsolidated CLG joint venture.
We continue to expect our technology group to achieve operating margins in excess of 30% of revenues for the year.
Lastly Capital Services generated revenues of $617 million an increase of $35 million or 6% over the comparable period primarily due to increased plant maintenance and chemical plant services revenue.
Income from operations for the third quarter was $24 million or 3.9% of revenue compared to $29 million dollars or 5% of revenues in the comparable 2014 period.
The decrease is primarily a result of lower margin mix of work.
Now turning to our balance sheet cash flow and liquidity.
At the close of the quarter our cash balance was $424 million.
During the quarter we generated $21 million of net operating cash flows.
Our year-to-date net operating cash usage of $173 million represents an improvement of $176 million from the comparable period in 2014.
More importantly we expect our operating cash flow performance following the close of the transaction to improve substantially.
As highlighted in the pro forma tables included in our earnings release excluding the disposed business our operating cash flow would have approached $327 million for the third quarter and $707 million year-to-date and operating cash flow to net income conversion ratio of 2.4 and 1.9 respectively.
For the nine months of 2015 we have invested $93 million in capital expenditures repurchased $211 million of common stock that's approximately 4.5 million shares and paid $23 million in common stock dividends.
During the quarter our capital contract position reflecting the combined balances of receivables inventory contracts in progress and accounts payable decreased by $252 million compared to a $132 million decrease in the second quarter of 2015.
In the third quarter our large U.S.
nuclear projects increased their contract capital asset position by $331 million.
We had previously indicated that we expected the nuclear projects contract capital position to remain relatively unchanged for the second half of this year.
However the recently announced disposition of the nuclear business has affected our ability to achieve cash neutrality on these projects in the second half of the year.
We continue to enjoy significant support from the credit markets with over $4 billion of credit availability to support new awards growth and strategic opportunities.
In terms of guidance for the remainder of the year on a constant currency basis we expect our revenues to be within $14 billion to $14.4 billion from $14.4 billion to $15.2 billion.
And adjusted earnings per share to be within our guided range of $5.55 to $6.05.
Given the changes to our nuclear projects operating cash flow expectations we anticipate our operating cash flow for the year to be close to neutral.
In summary we will continue delivering on our capital allocation priorities of maintaining a flexible capital structure and delivering value to our shareholders via sustainable growth solid margins strong cash flows and returning capital to our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it back over to Phil.
Phil? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</strong> Thanks Mike.
Let's open the call for your questions.
All right.
And your first question will come from the line of Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Hello Mike.
Michael you might be on mute.
Good evening Phil.
Good evening Michael.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> How are you Mike? Hey Mike.
How are you doing? Well.
Thank you.
So maybe to kind of – on the nuclear transaction Phil as you look back at what the Shaw transaction provided you and given the solution here can you maybe put in context how you felt it went and how it's provided for CBI going forward? And Mike just on the cash flow neutral aspect so there'll be some cash outflows going out with the closure of this transaction maybe you can bring a little more clarity to that.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Mike circle back on the – what are you saying on your first part of your question about the Shaw transaction.
No I was just – given what's happened and where the company is positioned going forward and looking back on how this all turned out with the transactions upcoming how do you feel it all turned out? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> I feel great.
No regrets.
But if you look at the combined company and considering any transaction is a way of growing the company in real terms if you look at just the year prior to the transaction compared to the year after the transaction we went from – new awards from $7 billion to $16 billion.
We went from backlog to $10 billion to $30 billion.
We went from gross profit from $5 billion to $12 billion.
We kept – we lowered our S&amp;A.
We raised EBITDA from $522 million to $1.1 billion.
So I would have to say that the combination of the two companies did what we wanted to do and in addition to add a number of areas that we needed to diversify in and gave us more control of other projects like pipe fabrication and extended our scope to plant maintenance and got us into power generation vis-à-vis the combined cycle.
So I mean we're very pleased with all of that.
As you know we needed to solve this issue with the nukes and we've done that.
And we're only looking forward now.
And we think the combined company is well-positioned to take advantage of everything we see in front of us.
Yeah.
And Mike related to your question from a cash flow standpoint.
As you recall last quarter we talked about the nuclear projects being cash flow neutral in the second half of the year and that on a consolidated basis for the company that we felt we could generate $400 million to $500 million of operating cash flow.
Obviously the game's changed a little bit with this transaction.
The nuclear projects will be a drain for the second half of the year for the third quarter it was about a $300 million drain and we see some additional potential leakage in the fourth quarter.
So as a result I think on a consolidated basis we'll be close to kind of breakeven cash flow-wise for the full year but I think more importantly is to really refer to the pro forma statements that just shows the power of the organization from a cash flow generation standpoint.
Ex this business we just sold through nine months we would have generated or we did generate over $700 million of positive operating cash flow and in the prior year we generated over $1 billion of positive operating cash flow.
So I think that gives the shareholder and the investment community just really a glimpse of what the organization the remaining business is capable of doing on a prospective basis.
Duly noted.
I appreciate that color Michael.
And my follow-up I guess for Phil even though – looking the addressable market and what the opportunities might be going forward given slowdown in total (30:48) cap spending how do you feel about labor and the activity because it still seems like the Gulf Coast and other parts of the U.S.
are going to continue to be pretty strong here going forward.
How – from your position how comfortable do you feel that you will be able to achieve the right opportunities for your labor and for attacking these projects? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> We started talking about that a couple of years ago Mike as you know and you had asked several questions then as had several of the analysts and investors and I think we've done a pretty good job of identifying the labor needs the 20 000 or so direct labor personnel that we would require.
We've instituted a number of training programs throughout the Southeast particularly in Louisiana and Texas.
There have not been any interruptions or delays in our projects as we're going to the field a result of not being able to supply labor.
Now of course we benefited from the downturn certainly in some of the other related industries relative to the services company and the off-shore platforms.
We found that much of the skills that were needed for those types of jobs have migrated to us.
We've – as you know and commented last quarter we tapped into other labor pools recruiting veterans.
We're continuing to do that.
So we see that as a pretty positive thing for us.
We self-perform everything we do.
So we're not going to be dependent on sub-contractors being able to provide labor we're going to provide it and we've seen great response in our advertising in our reaching out to various labor markets and we feel pretty good on the direction we're headed.
Thank you Phil and Michael.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Thanks Mike.
Thanks Mike.
And your next question will come from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Hi Steve.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Afternoon Steve.
Phil I think you said you anticipate growing both revenues and earnings double digit next year and I know you will give us more detail in January.
But I guess I'm trying to figure out how you get to the double digit revenue growth you are talking about because backlog it sounds like or is flat and bookings it sounds like will be about the range as this year.
So what's going to drive the double digit growth and I guess just to clarify that that excludes the nuclear in both years? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Yeah.
It's all adjusted Steve as you look at that.
And when you look at the double digit revenue growth and I'll let Mike add his color on that as well.
You also got to remember that the phase of these major projects are strengthened in the field where we're going to be generating more revenue.
There is some major projects we're looking at that will get a quicker start than we've had on some of the current backlog.
So it's current backlog in addition to some new work.
Remember it's not just projects we're talking about backlog relative to our other units as well.
So we think that double digits I can't tell you right now whether it's 10 or 12 but it's certainly in the teens and we feel pretty confident that we're going to be able to get there.
So as far as revenue I don't think we're going to have any currency translation issues going to next year.
We try to normalize our outlooks to accommodate for that.
So but we feel pretty confident that we're going to be able to grow the company again by double digits.
Yeah.
Steve I mean I think that the kind of the easy math is you just look at where we're today at kind on a pro forma basis of $22 billion of backlog.
We think that will grow in the fourth quarter and then leading into next year as Phil said some of the large U.S.
projects will have a higher percentage burn rate than they had this year.
I think you just couple that with our normal underpinning work should certainly allow for that.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then on cash flow looking at it ex-nuclear obviously the $326 million in the quarter was an improvement from the first half.
Can you just talk about what were the underlying drivers of getting to that in the first half and what drove the third quarter I'm really just trying to get a sense of what's the advance payments versus working capital improvement versus just profit conversion? And then how are those different drivers going to play out next year? Well.
It's kind of combination of all that I mean I think you just look at it for the quarter and the year and look at the prior year too we'll share with you 2014 too but I mean the 2014 cash flow we generated was over $1 billion almost equal to our EBITDA on a pro-forma basis.
So it has a lot to do with a lot of these new projects coming on board and so it's really got to say kind of three factors and you hit on all three of them.
The first is really managing our risk.
When Phil and I think about managing our risk especially with new projects it's – as Phil said executing and really signing up for projects that we're capable of executing but also in that is making sure we have very good cash flow metrics in there.
That's something we're really focusing on today in every project we bid.
The second is just kind of getting back to the basics and we've been talking about that for the six seven months I've been here just getting back to basics of managing our working capital.
Timely accurate billing managing our payables managing our inventories things like that.
And then and the rest is really Steve just get down to execution.
So it's a little bit of all three of those things in the quarter and also for the year and we'd expect that to continue into next year as well.
Okay.
Very helpful.
Thanks.
Your next question will come from the line of Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Hi Jamie.
Hi.
Good evening.
Hi Jamie.
(36:44 – 36:49) CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Did we lose you? Jamie? Okay.
Jamie's line has disconnected.
Your next question will come from the line of Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Hi Tahira.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi folks.
How are you? We're fine.
How are you tonight? Inc.</span></strong> I'm doing well.
Thank you.
I just wanted to get some more visibility on the petrochem projects on a regional basis and get your thoughts around some of the margins that some of your customers are seeing today and how they play into their long-term decisions? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> When we look forward into 2006 the – clearly the concentration of the petrochem projects are in North America.
I mean aside from the ORPIC job that I mentioned as a potential project for this year which is a huge investment most of these projects are in the neighborhood of anywhere from $500 million $700 million to well over $1 billion and again they are concentrated heavily in North America.
I think what's interesting is what I said about the mix changing.
When we look at addressable markets we see the overall universe if you will shrinking somewhat for all (38:10).
But I think where we saw last year heavy concentration in LNG and upstream and remember LNG for us is more than just export terminals it's peak shavers it's tanks it's import facilities.
There is a lot of LNG around the world.
But even having said that we've seen a reduction in the opportunities set for LNG going forward but we've also seen a significant increase in the refining and petrochemical.
So if you look at petrochemical I'd say our opportunities are primarily in North America.
If you look at refining it's pretty much spread around the world in terms of all the way from South America to Asia Pacific and some in the Middle East.
So it's a very interesting change in the mix.
We're looking at as this mix will continue to change as we look at more investment going downstream and more derivatives and petrochemicals we'll see that as again more of a changing mix as we go forward into 2017 and 2018.
So I think that's really the point we're trying to make is that that mix is changing and we seem to have a pretty good position as we move forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Phil also dynamics of all these market have changed.
Is it a change in terms of how you're looking at what technologies to invest in or do more maybe – acquire along the way? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> You're absolutely right.
Because especially as the market lose more downstream the ability to provide a technology a relevant technology certainly increases our competitive advantage in securing EPC and other services.
Because – again when we get the EPC we also can sell fabricated pipe and we can provide tank and storage too.
So with layers profitability in all these projects and again technology is key to that.
So we're looking at that we're looking at various collaborations and certainly our own technology expertise to make sure that we're very well prepared for that change in mix.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you very much and congratulations on the quarter.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Jeff Volshteyn with JPMorgan.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Hey Jeff.
Thank you for taking my question.
Just wanted to follow up on your commentary on LNG.
Can you help us think through the geographies where do you see in trends for LNG over the next three years to five years.
And as a follow up for that the Mozambique project can you just clarify sort of the timing of what you said in your prepared remarks as far as contract by the year-end or early 2016.
And then how does that convert into an FID? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Yeah.
Well let me go back to what I just said in my previous comment.
When you talk about LNG and our company again it's a broad spectrum of LNG opportunities from export facilities as well as tankage and peak shavers and other aspects of LNG.
But primarily North America we see some certainly a couple of LNG opportunities.
Now regardless of what you may read in some of the research reports the LNG activity on these projects are continuing.
We continue to do feed work and study on all the LNG projects in North America that still are on the list.
You can clearly debate when those may get started but certainly they're all very active.
But for us we think there's probably several billion dollars worth of LNG work to be awarded this year around the world some in the Middle East certainly Africa is going to be a major major part of that new award opportunity for us going forward.
Some in the Middle East some in Asia-Pacific in terms of some import facilities certainly in Europe as far as some – again some components of LNG there.
So it's going to be certainly a part of our profile for a long long time.
As far as Mozambique timing again Anadarko had their call last – we believe that was last week and reconfirmed what I had already said that we expect to get to our final EPC contract by the end of the year at that time or at least by 1st of January.
We expect to bring into our backlog our share backlog that we talked about earlier at that time.
Their FID again they're pretty confident.
They're going to meet that goal of first half of 2016.
And we have no reason to believe otherwise.
And are you able to do work between the time you kind of signed the contract and the FID? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> We've been working with them steadily for about a year-and-a-half.
And this is all preliminary works on a paid basis supporting their early works program getting ready for the kick off of that job in earnest.
It's important that we get the EPC contract obviously because then we can start from sort of our commitments for long lead items and start to get the project going.
So that's going to be an important milestone even though it pre-dates the FID again that's a process they go through but still one that we have a lot of confidence that we're going to look go forward and there won't any kind of change in the plan.
And Jeff once we'll get that EPC contract executed towards -- and we think that will happen mid to late December then we would record that into backlog at year-end and that escalates the spin on the project at that time.
That's very helpful.
One more question on margin.
With the sale of nuclear I think the implied margin in that business is about 11% can you help us think through bridge to what are your margin targets going forward not necessarily 2016 but how do you get to pre-sale margins because I'm guessing this is one of the higher margin businesses? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Let me clarify that.
One I don't necessarily envision our margins changing the margin guidance we have for example in E&amp;C is its 4% to 7% and I still see us being towards the upper end of that as we've been for last several quarters.
And I'm glad you asked the question.
The other thing to clarify that 11% business you mentioned over half of that was the amortization that margin fair value liability account.
So basically that kind of non-cash account and so it was all profit no revenue.
So that business was really about a from a normal operating standpoint 3% 3.5% business and ongoing was what – what it was executing it.
Thank you very much.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question is from the Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> You're back? I'm back.
And this question was asked I apologize because obviously I got disconnected.
But Mike ....
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> She's gone.
Okay.
And she has disconnected.
Your next question will come from the line of Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Vishal? Hello? Vishal go ahead.
You might be on mute sir.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> I'm not on mute.
All right.
Your next question will come from Robert Connors with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Since we don't have the queue in front of us.
So I was just wondering what the fixed price mix is in the backlog and if you hit this $14 billion to $16 billion award number for 2016 will that change substantially be flat year-over-year or what you are expecting? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Yeah.
Well again that fixed hybrid type of backlog also considers our steel-plate structures business as well as project business.
We've been running 50:50 or so up until this past year we anticipate 2016 to be more of a 60:40 split in terms of 60% of hybrid and fixed price contracting versus 40% of other.
Yeah.
And actually – the backlog actually with the transaction our fixed price/hybrid actually goes down probably about 6% to 8% from that standpoint.
So from a backlog standpoint at year end you're probably looking – or at the end of this quarter as well as year end you're probably looking at that fixed price hybrid being somewhere between 65% and 68%.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then the $13 million of cost increases on U.S.
projects.
Can you give some further detail on that where they're at on percent complete and what exactly happened there? That was just – I'd say it was several projects I mean I'd say it's not unusual when you have $100 million plus projects there that you'd have some project movement.
So I'd say not one particular project was instrumental in driving that.
I do know that one of the – one big project was at 90% plus complete where we had some cost increases.
So I'd say nothing alarming there but just in aggregate it did kind of move the needle just for that particular business line.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And your next question is from Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
This is my last time.
Can you hear me? Yes Jamie.
Go ahead.
I'm at least persistent.
Yeah.
I'm sorry if I've missed a couple of things because I've been trying to dial back in.
A couple of questions Mike just on the cash flow for 2016 any more – I know your cash flow ex the divestitures have been positive.
But any color any more granularity you can give from 2016 and in particular what can be generated from the core business and just what customer advancements and when do you think you can get to the level of the 1.5 times debt to EBITDA? And then just my second question when you're talking about growing EPS double-digit in 2016 on an adjusted basis what is your adjusted 2015 number that we should use as the base? And then my last question is as a result of the divestitures are there any cost opportunities that we can think about? Thanks.
From a cash flow standpoint as Phil mentioned we think 2016 will be at a minimum operating cash flows would equal a net income cash conversion ratio of 1.0.
Now obviously in 2014 again when you just look at the remaining business that was well north of two times and year-to-date we're at about 1.9 times.
So obviously looking at...
Which is why I'm sort of asking about 2016 I would hope 2016 could be better? Well better than 1.9 times or two times that's a tall task.
But I do think it will be at a minimum equal to net income.
But we'll certainly – history shows you that we're certainly capable of being better than that.
You ask about our adjusted EPS for 2015.
I think when you look at the pro forma we indicated year-to-date about $0.92.
I think for the full year that $0.92 turns into somewhere between $1.15 and $1.20.
I think for 2016 what we are thinking these businesses would've given us is probably in the $1.05 to about $1.10 range.
Okay.
And then last – are there any opportunities on the cost side just with the divestitures? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Yeah there are.
Clearly there's a whole structure infrastructure in Charlotte and elsewhere regarding the power unit and as soon as we finish with the transition plans we'll certainly see some cost reductions.
My favorite metric: for the money we're saving on outside attorneys I can train about 120 veterans every month.
So that's one of the more positive capital allocation plans I have.
But no we're going to see some cost reductions.
We've been down that path for the three years and I think for the three years we've gotten about 189 out of the business.
And certainly with the divestiture we're going to see some further reductions.
And I'm sorry one Mike.
Did you answer when you think you can get below the 1.5 times sorry I am calling from my cell.
Yeah I think we'll certainly start making meaningful progress next year and I think it's probably over the next 12 months to 18 months in all.
Okay.
All right.
Great.
Thanks.
I'll get back.
Yeah.
Thanks.
And our final question today will be from the line of Andy Wittmann with Robert W.
Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great thanks for taking my...
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Hello Andy.
Hi Andrew.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Mike so I think on the – I'm curious on how the deal affects the cash flow here in the waning days or months.
You mentioned that it kind of affected the cash outlook is that because basically you've stopped work now or are you working for free as part of the terms or how does that affect the cash flow from now to close? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Well I mean it's just – we're still obviously funding the projects and so as you can look back at history over the last nine months these projects have used $880 million as you noted in the pro forma.
As much as I wish that would stop I'm optimistic that we'll do all we can to mitigate that cash usage but I do think that you will see some continued cash usage in Q4 through the closing date of the projects.
But no the work continues these projects have not demanded any shape form or fashion so they're still under our control until we close and as I indicated we're shooting for a mid to late December close.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> So you didn't forgo any milestone payments as under the terms of this field or anything because I thought what the setting of some of the major milestones you would have seen some of those cash payments come in.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Yeah.
We were in – Yeah.
We were in the middle of negotiations of major milestones when we came to terms on this deal.
So obviously that will continue but not under our watch.
There may be some conditional payments I mean some additional payments in true-ups that we're going to receive as we go forward and think what we want to present to you was probably the most conservative view on going forward.
Hopefully there is going to be some upside but we are continued to look for any recoveries that are due us before we close this deal.
So standard milestone will continue to get Andrew the ones that we were talking about getting last quarter was moving about $156 million a milestone from 2016 into 2015.
Those are the ones I think will be more difficult.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
Okay.
That's not makes more sense.
So then just can you talk Mike what the contract capital is without the nukes? You gets a lot of pro forma's the contract capital balance will be interesting to know as well? Yeah I mean all that will be in the 10-Q and all so it's in a liability position where we have historically run.
When you look back at the kind of days from 2005 through 2012 or so.
We were consistently in a probably a $500 million to a $700 million range of negative contract capital.
And we're in that similar range today.
But certainly can improve on that.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
And Phil I'm just curious as when you're sitting at the table to do this nuke deal.
If you would consider taking your partnership position with Westinghouse and going to be the sub ala what Florida that seems like a pretty nice contract actually do everything at a reimbursable basis.
Was that part of the consideration side.
Or did you just feel like you needed cut ties and run? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Historically our role on new jobs going back to the first wake of net wave of nuclear construction was a sub-contractor for the containment vessels as well as the shield building and various supplies.
We felt that probably Westinghouse needed to control this they needed to decide how they were going to proceed with construction and I think it was a good choice I mean they I think it answers the question you're not a contractor it's not your core business.
So you need to satisfy the stakeholders that you're going to be able to control and forecast this job.
So we've left the entire team there and I'm sure the combination of Westinghouse and Florida do a great job to get it through.
But our position was that we're going to extract ourselves from the nuclear construction business and let Westinghouse proceed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Those are all my questions.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Andrew.
And that will conclude the Q&amp;A portion of today's conference call.
I'll turn the call back over to Mr.
Asherman for closing remarks.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</strong> I don't have any closing remarks except to thank everyone for their time and their participation today.
And with that we will conclude this call.
Once again we'd like to thank you for your participation on today's CB&amp;I third quarter 2015 financial results conference call.
You may now disconnect.