Good day everyone and welcome to the CBS Corporation First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Teleconference.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to the Executive Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our first quarter 2011 earnings call.
Joining me for today's discussion are Sumner Redstone our Executive Chairman; Leslie Moonves President and CEO; and Joe Ianniello Executive Vice President and CFO.
Sumner will have opening remarks and we'll turn the call over to Les and Joe who will discuss the strategic and financial results.
We will then open the call up to questions.
Please note that during today's conference call financial results and comparisons with the exception of revenue will be discussed on an adjusted basis unless otherwise specified.
Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information related to this call can be found in our earnings release or on our website.
In addition statements in this conference call relating to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed in CBS Corporation's news releases and securities filings.
A webcast of this call and the earnings release related to today's presentation can be found on the Investors section of our website at cbscorporation.com.
With that it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Sumner.
Thank you Adam.
Good afternoon everyone.
And I thank you for being with us today.
CBS is on a roll in 2011.
Our industry-leading content our multi-platform distribution have once again led to an exceptional performance for the company and momentum is continuing throughout our businesses.
What a terrific way to start off the year.
Not only are we operating in a strong marketplace we have the right strategy to turn our growing revenue into increasing profits.
And remember this we remain committed to enhancing shareholder value.
This is an unbeatable approach that I'm confident will propel our company to even greater heights throughout the rest of this year and for many years beyond.
This is in no small part of course thanks to Les and his team.
They are doing a phenomenal job creating the best content optimizing the business and managing our balance sheet.
Needless to say I'm really pleased extremely pleased with CBS and all that we're doing to capitalize on our position of strength.
And now for more on CBS's exceptional performance let's hear from my good friend a man I rightfully and faithfully call a genius CBS's President and CEO Les Moonves.
Thank you very much Sumner for that wonderful introduction.
Good afternoon everybody.
Thank you for joining us once again.
By now you've read our release and have seen that we had a wonderful quarter.
OIBDA was up 64% 96% on a reported basis.
EPS was $0.29 up nearly 6x from the first quarter last year.
Every single segment of CBS is performing at extremely high levels.
In a minute I'm going to walk you through our divisions in more detail.
But I can tell you up top that in every one of our businesses we are very pleased with what we are seeing.
And heading into the rest of the year we are looking as strong as we ever have.
This quarter is also a great one because you can truly see the kind of strong fundamental performance that we are confident we will achieve going forward.
We did not benefit from any one-time items or adjustments.
We just generated healthy underlying growth that speaks to the strength of our businesses.
As the numbers show we're clearly benefiting from the strategic actions we've taken to enhance and derisk our business model including diversifying our revenue streams and managing our cost structure.
Our valuable content and our ability to sell it with increasing profitability is a powerful combination that positions CBS for success not just for the rest of this year but for many years to come.
We are very encouraged by the ongoing strength of the advertising marketplace.
We posted solid underlying revenue growth during the quarter.
And as we look to the rest of '11 and into '12 our business continues to be very healthy particularly given the highly favorable climate heading into this year's upfront.
Scatter is still extremely hot and pacing in our local businesses is looking very solid as well.
In just the first 4 months of the year we are already making meaningful progress towards many of the core initiatives that we emphasized at our upfront for investors in February.
A major theme we discussed that day was the opportunity we have to monetize the value of our content through strategic business deals.
There were some notable examples of our progress during the quarter including our new NCAA deal with Turner Broadcasting.
Our first year in this 14-year agreement was a ratings success and it places us in a much stronger and now profitable position.
We also made significant progress in our strategy of getting paid incremental dollars for our content.
This includes the deal we made with Netflix in February and more recently a new lucrative domestic syndication deal for Hawaii Five-0.
More on that later.
We continue to have great success selling our content across the company on all sorts of platforms.
And because of this success and the healthy free cash flow we continue to generate and the improved visibility we have in all of our businesses we are pleased to announce today that we've doubled our quarterly dividend to $0.10 a share.
This is of course in addition to continuing our aggressive and significant share buyback program.
Returning value to shareholders is a commitment we take very seriously and we are pleased to deliver it even more strongly once again today.
So clearly we're in terrific shape on every front.
I'm now going to spend a few minutes to walk you through our financial and operational highlights.
And then I'll turn it over to Joe to go into this in more depth.
And then of course we'll be happy to take your questions.
Starting with the results.
As I said the bottom line performance of the company was exceptional.
EPS of $0.29 increased nearly six-fold from $0.05 a year ago.
The success was primarily driven by our dramatic increases in OIBDA which totaled $576 million for the quarter up 64% and accelerating from last year.
As you know our first quarter last year included the Super Bowl and this year it did not.
Also this year we shared revenues with Turner Broadcasting for the NCAA Tournament.
Even with these factors revenue was essentially flat at $3.5 billion and underlying revenue growth at all of our businesses was very strong.
And we are particularly pleased with our free cash flow of $853 million in the first quarter.
This is up 29% year-over-year and once again was achieved without the benefit of last year's Super Bowl.
It's this healthy free cash flow and the ongoing confidence we have in our businesses that led to our dividend increase today.
This increase will be comfortably paid out of the cash flow generated by all of our businesses as will our share repurchase plan that continues into the second quarter.
During the first quarter we purchased $250 million worth of stock and are on track to repurchase another $250 million this quarter.
In all of these key financial metrics we are very pleased to have been able to outperform during the quarter.
And given the ongoing strength of our operations and the moves we made to set them up for continued success in the future we feel very good about our ability to drive our performance throughout '11 and '12 and beyond.
So now let's take a brief closer look at our businesses.
Beginning with our Entertainment segment.
The CBS Television Network continues to be number one and the only network to be up in viewers this season.
We have success across the board in every genre.
We have the number one scripted series the number one drama the number one sitcom the number one news sitcom the number one news magazine and the number one most-watched scripted series every single night of the week.
As we look into the future our schedule is set up to succeed for a long time.
In addition to the many CBS-owned franchises we'll have returning we've completed early renewals at good terms for a number of key shows including The Big Bang Theory which has been renewed until 2014.
We are by far the most stable network in the business and we are preparing to announce our new fall schedule at Carnegie Hall in a couple of weeks.
Given the success we're having right now the bar has been set very high for new programming.
Even though we'll only have a few spots to fill I'm very pleased with the pilots I've seen so far including some very strong projects from CBS Studios.
At the same time primetime scatter in the second quarter is up over 40% over last year's upfront continuing the 40% gains we have through the first quarter.
So between the strength of our programming our development and the marketplace overall we expect to see solid double-digit increases when we sell next year's schedule a few weeks from now.
Meanwhile at CBS News I'm really pleased with the progress made by Jeff Fager and David Rhodes in such a short time.
These guys know how to win and have lots to build on.
We just announced that we have a terrific new anchor in Scott Pelley an extraordinary television journalist who has won multiple Peabody and Emmy Awards.
Plus CBS Sunday Morning is getting ratings as good as it has in 4 years and 60 Minutes continues to roll finishing in the top 20 week after week.
We were extremely pleased and proud to announce just today that this Sunday we will have an exclusive with President Obama for his first and only interview on the killing of Osama bin Laden.
I'm confident that better content will lead to improved financial results as Jeff and David take on some of the opportunities we have in front of us in news.
I'm really proud of this team.
CBS Sports is also increasing its value to our corporation all the time.
Working together with Turner Broadcasting our coverage of the NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament was the most watched since 2005.
Higher ratings and a strong marketplace drove significantly increased sales.
And given our greatly reduced cost the tournament was profitable for us for the first time in many years.
This new deal has successfully derisked our financial exposure in this marquee franchise without taking away our upside.
And the good news is that we will benefit from this tremendous swing in the value of our new deal well into the next decade.
Throughout the CBS Television Network and broadcast television in general big event programming continues to pull in viewers unlike any other medium.
CBS Sports coverage of the Masters last month was the second highest in a decade.
And this year's Grammy broadcast in February had the biggest audience in 11 years with more than 26.5 million viewers.
Broadcast television is still the best game in town.
For years some pundits have tried to say otherwise but the dominance of broadcast remains universally acknowledged in the marketplace and is here to stay.
All of this success results in increased leverage as we negotiate multiple new revenue streams for our content.
As you know retrans [retransmission] continues to grow at a rapid pace.
We are very confident we'll achieve our goal of $250 million by next year.
And on top of that we are also increasingly getting paid reverse compensation from our affiliates.
This is another new source of revenue that will grow for many years to come.
At the same time we are capitalizing on all the new opportunities to get paid for CBS content by traditional and online distributors.
Just last month we sold Hawaii Five-0 to TNT at very attractive rates.
Our international and domestic syndication commitments for this show are now nearly $5 million per episode meaning that it is already extremely profitable.
This is only Hawaii Five-0's first year and it's already on its way to being another $1 billion franchise for us joining NCIS and CSI which both remain strong on our network as well.
Meanwhile the Netflix deal we announced in February is going to generate hundreds of millions of new dollars as well.
Once again the content in the Netflix deal is for programming that we've already sold elsewhere meaning it's not cutting into lucrative first and second month syndication dollars.
Meaningful revenue from the Netflix deal will kick in beginning in the second quarter.
Plus the Netflix deal is U.S.
only and non-exclusive.
So not only can we sell this programming again domestically but we will also look to sell the same content online internationally as well.
And with competition for Netflix growing all the time there is a great possibility that several new prudent deals are on the horizon.
Another one of the key ways we're getting paid for our premium content is at CBS Interactive.
This division turned in a strong first quarter as well.
During the quarter we brought in a terrific new leader for CBS Interactive in Jim Lanzone.
Jim is first and foremost a product guy and is busy working on improving our content across the division.
We expect great things from Interactive going forward under Jim's leadership.
Moving to our Cable segment we continue to see growth in both rates and subscriptions at Showtime and the CBS Sports Network.
Showtime leads the way with subs up considerably year-over-year now totaling above 20 million subscribers.
Original programming continues to drive Showtime's growth.
Our new drama The Borgias debuted earlier this month and delivered the best ratings for a new drama series in 7 years and has already been picked up for a second season.
We are looking forward to new seasons of Shameless The Big C Weeds and Dexter as well as a number of new shows.
Our investment in original content and our reduced cost for theatricals have greatly expanded our margins in Cable Networks something you can really see in our results today.
Our Publishing business also performed strongly on the back of great content.
Simon &amp; Schuster had 61 New York Times bestsellers during the quarter and won this year's general nonfiction Pulitzer for The Emperor of All Maladies.
E-books are growing at a much more rapid pace now which is good news for us due to the improved cost structure.
First quarter digital sales of $28 million were up 148% over last year representing our highest quarterly performance to date.
Just like in our other businesses as Publishing continues to evolve we feel good about our ability to monetize our content however our audience wants to consume it.
Now turning to Local Broadcasting.
During the quarter we drove increasing revenues at our TV stations CBS Radio and the segment as a whole again despite no Super Bowl and virtually no political advertising.
In fact revenue from the NFL alone was actually up at our TV stations versus a year ago with the Super Bowl.
And to be up in an odd numbered year without political advertising is extremely unusual.
The momentum continues to be broad-based.
We're selling into this improved advertising marketplace with higher ratings in many of our key major markets.
In February all 16 of our CBS Television Stations ranked number one or number two in primetime and late local news.
And the weekly newscast weekday newscast here in New York at CBS 2 at 11 [CBS 2 News at 11PM] was the most-watched late news in the country.
This is the first time since the Winter Olympics in 1994 that WCBS has finished number one in sweeps.
And in Radio 7 of our top 10 markets gained rating shares during the quarter.
We're very encouraged by our ability to sell these ratings going forward with second quarter pacings looking solid at our TV and radio stations led once again by major markets.
In addition we are aggressively looking to grow the overall revenue pie in our Local Broadcasting segment.
We have rolled out plans for digital subchannels that will leverage local TV and radio programming as well as content from our new local websites.
We'll start by launching these subchannels in New York and L.
A.
during the third quarter.
Meanwhile our major market local websites continue to show growth month after month.
CBS local websites ranked number one in total minutes spent each month in the quarter beating out other regional sites in the category including Yelp Yahoo! Local and MSN Local.
Our momentum continued at Outdoor as well and we're now seeing the benefits of our renegotiated trends and contracts in New York and Washington D.
C.
Second quarter pacing for Outdoor is rising with U.S.
occupancy and rates up considerably over a year ago.
In addition as the marketplace has recovered we've been strategically continuing our digital buildout.
We're pursuing high-profile installations in major markets while still staying well within the CapEx range we've been giving you.
So you can see we're pretty excited.
Across the board our businesses are performing exceptionally well both financially and operationally.
We have begun 2011 with strong momentum.
And there are many many reasons why we're confident our momentum will continue throughout the year and into '12 and '13 as well.
CBS Studios is building new hits all the time and the first-place CBS Television Network provides an unparalleled platform to launch new ones.
No matter which new platforms come along advertisers continues to covet the kind of big-ticket programming that we have on CBS.
At the same time we're successfully expanding and diversifying our non-advertising revenue sources.
The local ad marketplace continues to grow with major markets like ours leading the way.
We're holding down costs and finding every opportunity to enter into better deals all the time.
Plus our balance sheet is stronger than ever and we're delivering on our promise to return more value to shareholders including the significant increase in our dividend which we announced today.
It's clearly a very good time to be an investor in CBS and we have every reason to believe it will be for a long long time.
Thank you very much.
And with that I'll turn it over to Joe.
Thanks Les.
Good afternoon everyone.
Today I will provide you more detail on the results for the quarter and update you on what we're seeing in Q2.
But before I walk you through our strong results I want to point out that we're confident that the performance we're seeing this quarter is sustainable.
We're in the early stages of benefiting from the improved long-term deals with many more to come.
We are favorably changing our revenue mix and our visibility into the marketplace is more clear and very promising.
This quarter proves that our underlying revenue performance continues to grow and our operating leverage is significant.
We see this momentum continuing.
So now let's look at our total company results for the quarter.
Revenues at $3.5 billion were essentially flat with the prior year despite no Super Bowl and including the impact of our new NCAA arrangement with Turner.
Taken together these 2 items lowered the revenue comparison by 10 percentage points.
As we mentioned on last quarter's call for our new NCAA contract we only recognize revenues for the games that air on CBS.
The underlying base advertising revenues for the company were up double digits for the quarter.
Content licensing and distribution revenues were up 4% and affiliate and subscription fees were up 10%.
It's important to note again that these results do not reflect the impact of our new Netflix deal which starts in Q2.
OIBDA of $576 million was up 64% from the prior year.
On a reported basis OIBDA was up 96% because of $57 million of restructuring charges recognized last year.
We have also expanded our OIBDA margin for yet another quarter.
The overall margin in the first quarter expanded 650 basis points to 16% as we continue to enhance our business model with prudent programming investment derisked contractual obligations and larger contributions from high margin recurring revenue streams.
Our Q1 OIBDA margin is expected to be the lowest of the year.
Operating income more than doubled to $437 million for the quarter once again demonstrating the company's strong operating leverage.
Diluted EPS came in at $0.29 compared to $0.05 a year ago.
So in addition to our operating profit strength you can see the direct benefit of lower interest expense due to our delevering activities last year.
Let's turn to our segments.
Entertainment revenues for the quarter were $2 billion down 4%.
This decrease in revenue is due to the absence of the Super Bowl and as I just mentioned the new way we recognize revenue for the NCAA.
Together these 2 items lowered the segment comparison by 17 points.
Network advertising was up 12% for the quarter led by football.
And syndication both domestically and internationally was strong.
OIBDA for the Entertainment segment came in at $268 million up 85% as a result of growth in high margin advertising revenues and lower cost from the revised NCAA agreement.
Cable revenues for the quarter were $393 million up 7% primarily as a result of subscription and rate increases.
Cable OIBDA of $153 million was up 51% for a 39% margin which is up 12 percentage points from a year ago.
The margin in Q1 is traditionally the lowest of the year so we expect this quarter's 39% margin to expand further.
As Les said you're seeing the benefits of investing in original content which has a higher margin than theatrical programming.
Publishing revenues of $155 million for the quarter were up 2% driven by higher digital content sales as well as strong titles.
Digital sales represented 18% of total revenue and more than doubled last year's first quarter.
Publishing OIBDA for the quarter of $7 million was up 133% driven by the change in the revenue mix of higher digital sales which have lower operating costs than the traditional print business.
I'd also like to point out that these results were achieved without shipping product orders during the first quarter.
Local Broadcasting revenues of $621 million were up 2% for the quarter.
Radio revenues were up 4% and TV station revenues were up 1%.
Three items impacted our TV station comp: the Super Bowl political and the sale of a station last year which combined lowered our comparison by 11 percentage points.
The fact that we showed growth despite the absence of the revenue for these related items speaks to the underlying strength of the base business.
Local Broadcasting OIBDA was $169 million up 26% for the quarter.
We continue to expand our margin at this segment and you can see the effects of the restructuring activities we implemented last year during the quarter.
Outdoor revenues for the quarter were up 5% to $413 million with the Americas up 11% on a constant-dollar basis.
Occupancy rates in the U.S.
are approaching historical levels so most of the gains in the quarter came from pricing.
With the continued strength in demand and the tighter inventory supply we are now starting to really see pricing power come back into this business.
OIBDA for Outdoor of $49 million increased 53% from prior year's first quarter as we continue to focus on improving the economics of our long-term contracts.
Turning to our balance sheet and cash flow.
Free cash flow came in at $853 million for the quarter up 29%.
This was our second highest quarterly cash flow on record.
Capital expenditures were $41 million flat to the prior year and in line with our full year estimate.
Our cash on hand at March 31 was $972 million.
As Les said during Q1 we spent $250 million on our share repurchase program.
We retired 11.8 million shares at an average price of just over $21 a share.
We expect to spend approximately another $250 million during the second quarter.
We also extended our $2 billion credit facility through March of 2015 on more favorable terms reducing our commitment fees as well as our borrowing spreads.
We are currently examining efficient ways to fund up our pension plan to capitalize on an attractive rate environment.
More on that in the coming quarters.
As you saw today we doubled our quarterly dividends starting with the next dividend payable on July 1.
We are very comfortable doing this at this time due to our enhanced visibility into our cash flow with new contracts like Comcast like the NCAA and Netflix just to name a few and in our local businesses where our clients are making commitments earlier so we have a greater lead time in our planning.
Now let me take you through what we're seeing in Q2.
The key takeaway for Q2 is that the momentum's continuing.
Scatter market at the network remained strong up 40% above last year's upfront a very positive sign heading into this year's upfront.
Q2 option cancellations remain historically low given the strength of our schedule and the robust scatter market.
TV station's advertising revenues are pacing to be up low single digits even with a more difficult political comp.
National advertisers are leading the way.
Radio stations are pacing to be up mid-single digits led by auto and retail both up double digits.
Our Outdoor group is currently pacing to be up mid to high single digits.
So to wrap up we're off to a very strong start in 2011.
Our leading position as a premium content provider continues to be the key to our success.
The strong advertising momentum we saw exiting Q4 of last year accelerated into Q1 and is sustaining its momentum into Q2.
On top of that visibility particularly in our local businesses has returned to pre-recession levels and has enhanced our confidence for those businesses.
In addition we're very excited that our non-advertising revenue streams such as retrans affiliate fees online distribution fees are significantly adding to the recurring nature of our business and will increasingly drive the growth of our top and bottom line for many years to come.
In short every single segment of CBS is performing at very high levels.
We are very pleased with what we're seeing but even more optimistic for what lies ahead.
With that Jay we can open the lines for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions]   We will go first to Jessica Reif-Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I guess a couple of follow-ups and some comments.
First Les on your schedule for next year I know you haven't announced it.
But your comment about your own production I just was wondering if you could clarify are you taking any shows from third-party producers? Or will most of it come from internally? Yes.
Our philosophy is always the best show makes it on the air.
And as you know we have over 2/3 of the shows are shows that are CBS.
But in terms of our pilots I think once again it's about 2/3 CBS and 1/3 from other suppliers.
So right now we're just screening our pilots and may the best man win.
Obviously it's the jump ball.
The CBS-owned project gets on the air and fortunately NCIS and CSI and Hawaii Five-0 and The Good Wife and Blue Bloods are all CBS-owned properties.
So we not only get the front ends in advertising but the back end as well.
And then just a last question.
On Hawaii Five-0 I just wonder -- I mean it's incredible that you've had such a big sale and so early.
What are the cable networks thinking? I mean why are they committing so early? By the way we had the same situation frankly with NCIS: L.A.
if you recall.
which we did after only 6 episodes.
This one I think we waited till there were 12 on the air.
Look it's a competitive marketplace.
Quality premium hours are very tough to come by.
And there's a bidding war for these types of things going on.
So the marketplace is very strong both internationally which continues to grow as well as domestically if you have the right kind of hours that aren't serialized that have an action component and that can get this kind of numbers.
So it's a great business.
So does that feed the international sales then if they know that you're going to keep the show on for 3 years? Look the international sales are sold fairly early.
Right after we announce them on our schedule here it will continue to feed the pipeline.
But Hawaii Five-0 before it even went on the air in the United States got over $2.5 million internationally and the numbers internationally keep growing.
We'll go next to Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Les I think you have a good chunk of the Netflix revenues flowing through the P&amp;L in Q2.
And you've talked about -- I think you sold about 7% of your library in that deal.
I'm just wondering if you're talking to Netflix about going with them internationally and also if you expect some time in the not-too-distant future to announce deals with other players like an Amazon or a Google.
Google talked about spending on premium content on YouTube on their earnings call.
And I think a lot of people out there are thinking there's a lot of interest from new players.
I'm just curious if you'd comment there and I have one follow-up.
The answer to both questions is an absolute yes.
We are in very serious discussions with Netflix about doing a deal in Latin America doing a deal in Canada and those deals might happen fairly quickly.
And in answer to your question about competitors to Netflix obviously Amazon is very interested in content and there are other players who are also having similar discussions to that.
So when you look at a Netflix and you say "Gee it's great to be in business with them and they are terrific " and we feel that way about them there are going to be competitors who are going to pay the same kind of dollars and we see that across the way.
Look I don't believe that Blockbuster was bought by DISH to be a bunch of stores selling cassettes.
I think they're a content place that wants our content.
So the more the merrier.
And we're going to continue to produce them and we're going to be able to sell them.
So the world for the premium content providers gets bigger and bigger across the board.
And just switching gears Joe on the TV station business you talked about second quarter pacings which sound solid.
Is that an acceleration in the organic growth from Q1? Because you mentioned the comp in Q1 with the Super Bowl and political and the station sale.
And I know there's some retrans in that 1%.
I think there's retrans in that 1% number for Q1.
So just looking at if you parse it all part of look at the organic advertising trend is that getting better? And if it is does that tell us that the Japan issues that we're all worried about in the auto side aren't having any material impact yet? I would say the strength is continuing.
I think on an absolute dollar basis the numbers might be better because of no Super Bowl.
But clearly the political comp is getting tougher.
As far as the automotive I mean obviously we saw today GM and Chrysler for April sales GM up 27%; Chrysler up 22%.
So the U.S.
is clearly showing there's demand out there for autos.
So I think in Japanese they've got to get their supply right which we view as really a short-term blip.
But we're pretty bullish on the category in general across our local and national mediums.
We'll go next to Michael Nathanson with Nomura.
I have just one clarification for Joe and 2 on the cost side for both you guys.
Joe did you say the network was up 12% led by football? Is that x Super Bowl x NCAA just to clarify that? Yes yes this is x Super Bowl.
This is just x NCAA so kind of apples-to-apples network advertising up 12%.
Obviously Sports we're leading the way led by the NFL.
And then on the cost side let's drill down a bit to local.
It looked like your local cost stepped down year-over-year.
And I wonder where we're those savings? Which -- what did you guys do differently this year versus last year? And then do you expect cost to trend down the rest of the way for local? Yes Michael you've got to remember when we took a restructuring charge in Q1 of last year $57 million for the total company.
But a big chunk of that was coming from our TV stations and radio stations.
So you're seeing the quarterly benefit of those savings.
Obviously they come out of the numbers in the coming quarters because we took the charge last year in the first quarter.
Okay so a more moderate cost level.
And then lastly if you just look at Entertainment really mostly TV if you backed out the NCAA and the Super Bowl on the cost side of TV what do you think the underlying cost growth is for you guys in the Entertainment segment? Very low single digits.
I think we managed the cost very effectively.
So the revenue dollars are really flowing through the profits.
We look at that very closely apples-to-apples.
We'll go next Anthony DiClemente with Barclays Capital.
I just a follow-up on Michael's question about the 12%.
How do you see that trending in the Q2 Joe? I mean if it was -- if the core revenue is up 12% will we be just south of that just given that core football goes away? Well look.
The sports clearly go away.
And in Q2 there's clearly more repeats than in Q1.
So but again the base underlying strength is there.
But just in absolute dollars percentages it might not be the same.
But again I think the key takeaway is we're seeing lots of categories continue to drive the growth.
And again since we have the product it's well well well above last year's upfront which is really setting us up as Les and I talk about mostly is this year's upfront which is setting us up for next year.
How does the NFL potential work stoppage start to play into the dynamics in the upfront market? The upfront marketplace really sort of excludes the NFL.
It's sold sort of year-round.
And once again we're guardedly optimistic that there will be some resolution.
If there isn't before the upfront I think it might help the victor.
In other words we expect to be a leader or the leader in the upfront marketplace in terms of growth in terms of dollars taken in.
And if they haven't placed the NFL dollars at that point we expect to get a piece a better piece of the pie.
Okay.
And then one more just would love to hear drivers of Showtime.
That was an impressive sub-growth number.
Say that again? Showtime you picked up 6 million subscribers at Showtime.
I thought that was particularly strong.
I'm just wondering from your perspective what really drove that in the quarter? Well it wasn't over the quarter.
It was over the year.
And frankly we think we're getting a terrific response to our program.
The $6 million Showtime network it has other things.
It has The Movie Channel et cetera in there.
So Showtime has less than -- exists in over 20 million homes.
It didn't grow $6 million.
So Showtime revenue grew 7% and it's both rate and subscriptions Anthony.
So there's clearly being -- there's more distribution in Showtime but again our other ancillary networks as well.
LLC</strong> Got you.
We'll go next to John Janedis with UBS.
Les can you talk a little bit more about online distribution? Meaning how do you view the strategy of the distributors longer term? And so as the current yields get renegotiated in 4 or 5 years from now would you expect the appetite for content broadly to increase or maybe due to consumption patterns or learnings from the OBDs as they potentially look to maybe renew the content on a much smaller scale? As there are more and more competitors getting into the marketplace and our attitude is and it's proven to be the case in time and memoriam if you have the good content people are going to want to buy it.
It is true they want to see it when they want it and you've heard that cliché "I want my content when I want it and however I can get it." And when you look at the Amazon TVs and the Google TVs and the Yahoo! TVs they are all going to be looking for premium content.
So as we go down the road there's going to be more and more competition for it.
Will the dollars be there? We expect it to be.
It has never gone down in terms of that.
So we're confident that it will continue to grow.
We'll go next to Michael Morris with Davenport.
LLC</strong> Two questions.
First I'm hoping you can share a little more about your thoughts into the upfront and specifically the comments of solid double digits obviously you also have great momentum.
I mean 40%-plus in the scatter market.
So I guess my thought is how much inventory -- do you hold any more back as you go into the upfront given -- I just don't know where solid double digits are relative to the 40%.
And at what point do you look to kind of continue to maybe capitalize on those premiums next year that you can get in the scatter market versus maybe what you're going to be able to achieve in the upfront this year? It's a very good question.
We will sit down with our sales team as the market begins to evolve and we feel very strong about our schedule.
We will feel strong about our schedule.
We haven't set it yet but knowing that we are only going to replace a few shows.
And we're going to look at a very solid increase.
And as the marketplace evolves we feel confident that the scatter will be strong.
However if the upfront dollars are where they should be obviously you'll sell more of it.
It's always the risk reward factor.
But any way you play the game we're in very very good shape.
You're right.
As you're sitting here May 2 with 40% increase going on in scatter you know when people are buying in June they're going to be looking at that.
So I think advertisers that didn't buy it at the upfront last year are kicking themselves because they are paying substantially more today than they were yesterday.
How much we sell? It'll depend how much they want to pay.
So it's going to be a question that we will ask.
We have sold over the last 5 years anywhere from 65% to 80%.
So it will be somewhere in that range.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And then over on Outdoor it sounds like -- the comment with that you're starting to see pricing power come back and I'm hoping maybe you can talk a little bit more about that just given that maybe some other Outdoor advertisers it seems that they've started to struggle a little bit.
Maybe you can -- I know you're in bigger markets but is it just too early to judge the pricing power here? Or what are you kind of seeing there going forward? Michael it's Joe.
What I would say maybe they're in just smaller markets than we're in.
Again we're not seeing that at all and we're seeing clearly the benefits from the other local medium their pricing.
As they're raising their pricing people are coming into Outdoor again.
We're seeing them with longer lead times.
So now that the inventory is at historical levels in terms of the sellout we're really trying to push the price.
And we're just again -- we're in this kind of second inning of that to see that benefit.
So it's a little too early to tell how far we can push it.
But there's clearly a lot of upside from where we sit today.
We'll go next to David Miller with Caris &amp; Company.
Just kind of a loaded question for either of you with regard to mergers and acquisitions.
And I know you're somewhat hamstrung by how you can comment on this.
But clearly the notion of JCDecaux sort of expanding its U.S.
footprint is obviously nothing new.
We've been hearing about this for 3 years now.
Previous rumors of pending deals have just turned out to be massive head takes.
That being said you guys have stated for the record many times that Outdoor is sort of non-cored operations.
So could you comment -- against that backdrop could you maybe comment on a couple things? First of all is the London tube platform also non-core? And then could you just comment on the tax basis of the Outdoor business in general? Yes I'll talk about the first part.
Mr.
Decaux who we know very well and we like and makes statements about how he'd like to buy our Outdoor company.
As you know our Outdoor results as you can see are growing substantially quarter-after-quarter.
We have no great intent to sell it.
We like it.
Yes we do consider ourselves primarily a content company.
But Outdoor is a wonderful business.
We are here.
He has our phone number.
If he wants to make an offer well we'll always listen to it.
It's not our intent to aggressively sell.
He said some very bold statements and I think the Clear Channel guys sort of took a shot at some of his statements.
But we like Mr.
Decaux talking up how good our business is and we agree with him.
And David it's Joe.
And I'd just add that when he does call over remind him that the earnings are up 53%.
So if ever he's -- multiply it by -- plus 3.
We're not going to come up on our tax basis David.
But other than we have a lot of basis so we've got a lot of financial flexibility.
And we do have a tough contract in the London Underground.
Two things I'd say is one that contract comes to an end in early 2015; and two there's an Olympics there next year.
So we're looking for some real upside in 2012.
We'll go next to Doug Mitchelson with Deutsche Bank.
So Les typically right now advertisers are lining up starting the early deals.
And it gives you a peek at what pricing might look like.
Any early pre-upfront deals being talked? There have been a couple which my head of sales told me that I can't talk about.
So I won't.
But needless to say any deal that we would have taken in April would be at a very very good number which gives me great confidence heading into the upfront.
And then given your comments on the difficulty of gaining a show on the CBS.
There's a few holes in the schedule right? I'm wondering if you could take advantage of having more shelf space to put more TV shows on the air.
Is there any strategic synergy to owning a cable network or starting up a cable network for that matter? The start-ups are virtually impossible on the price of what the cable networks would want.
I mean by the way we do have the programming.
As a matter of fact we thought of buying another broadcast network.
But I don't think the government would allow us because we do have a great deal of programming.
But it's great because of our pilots number one we were able to do less pilots this year by about 6 or 7 that we'd normally do.
And the bar is really high because of that shelf space so it's a very good position to be in.
And then lastly Joe given the schedule starting to take shape and you made some comments about the pricing of returning shows.
What are you looking at for the cost base for the network next year? Is it going to grow a few percentage points? We don't see that -- we look at that flat Doug.
Again year-over-year we're paying top dollar for the shows.
We don't see why that goes up.
We look at that strategically.
On every schedule we put up I sit there with the numbers on a per episodic basis.
So we expect that to be flat.
Now when you say flat you're talking about the Entertainment programming piece because the sports always has whatever 3% or 4% amortization.
I'm talking about the Entertainment.
Sports and News hopefully we have some savings.
And Sports will be what it will be.
Well sports advertising is growing fast.
You know that already.
So you basically just need revenue growth on the Entertainment side to drive profit is that right? Correct.
We'll go next to Laura Martin with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Could you talk about Two and a Half Men on the schedule? There's been a lot of chatter that you guys are talking about renewing it and are maybe not renewing it.
What are the economic implications of bringing Two and a Half Men back or not without Charlie Sheen presumably? And then on the margin one of the things as I recall from last quarter Joe is that you said you were going to hit -- exceed peak margins.
And given that the first quarter you grew 650 basis points.
So I assume you're on track to do better than that.
Can we model an even higher margin than we did last quarter? On Two and a Half Men Laura we don't know what the resolution is right now.
There are obviously a lot of moving pieces.
Warner Bros.
is exploring different ideas on how to do the show.
So we're sort of waiting on them.
It's an important show to us.
But the good news about the CBS schedule is we are not dependent on a single show on any single night of the week.
So we will see what happens and I can't really say a whole lot more than that.
Joe? Laura on the margin point clearly again we said at our last quarter's earnings call we said it at our investor upfront that to expect margin expansion.
You've seen that today.
We laid out a plan to -- for no reason why we can't meet or exceed peak margins.
And again you're just going to continue to see that quarter-after-quarter.
So we're well on our way to achieving or exceeding those targets.
We'll go next to David Joyce of Miller Tabak.
LLC</strong> I just was hoping you could provide some more color on how we should think about modeling free cash flow it was up 29%.
Is there any draw-forward from what we would have normally been expecting in the second quarter? Then secondarily on Netflix how should we expect that to be phasing in? Or is it a fixed rate contract or per-subscriber contract? Okay again it's Joe.
Free cash flow look we obviously don't give guidance on free cash flow.
Traditionally Q1 is the highest of the quarter.
Q2 is also a very strong quarter.
So you can expect to see that.
We've also said we expect to fund our share repurchase program as well as our dividend out of free cash flow so that gives you some nice kind of indication.
So we're feeling pretty good about our free cash flow prospects.
As far as Netflix goes the way we recognize the revenue is when we make those shows available to Netflix it is not all in one quarter but it does -- a significant portion does start in Q2.
But again like I said it's when we choose to make those shows available to them is when we recognize the revenue.
So it will be over a period of time.
But again the biggest cost starting in Q2.
LLC</strong> And also on the timing of expenses with the NCAA is that also based on a per game is that a pro rata perspective like your revenue? No on a pro rata -- the deal we have with Turner is again it's no surprise that our downside is capped and the upside is split.
So again that's what you're seeing in the results in the margin.
So that will continue obviously in the second quarter.
The Final Four games were all on CBS and not on Turner so there's no revenue comp issue.
But we're very pleased with the performance of the tournament as a whole and the financial results as well.
Our final question comes from Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Just a quick question.
Can you update us on reverse retrans? You threw out a $225 million number at your investor upfront so curious as to first your progress and then second the time frame you expect to capture this entire revenue stream.
And then I have one follow-up.
Marci it's Joe.
Look that $225 million is obviously -- we did the math on $0.25 a sub there which was again just by ease of math 50% of the retrans number.
We have about 180 of those contracts to negotiate.
So we're in the early stages.
And as we said in the coming years you should look for that number to grow significantly similarly to retrans.
So it's incremental.
It's all 100% dollar profits so I think it's good news for 2013 '14 and '15.
And the $0.25 number is a little low.
It was illustrative the $0.25 number just to get a negotiation.
LLC</strong> And then my follow-up is in your local segment how much of the growth is from digital versus core advertising? Most of that's coming from core advertising.
The digital still represents as a percentage basis a very small kind of piece.
It is growing clearly at a faster clip.
But still to move the needle it's a -- top line is $621 million for a quarter.
So we have a lot of upside on the digital side.
And this concludes today's call.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Have a great evening.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the CBS Corporation Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Teleconference.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to the Executive Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
Joining me for today's discussion are Sumner Redstone our Executive Chairman; Leslie Moonves President and CEO; and Joe Ianniello Executive Vice President and CFO.
Sumner will have opening remarks and we'll turn the call over to Les and Joe who will discuss the strategic and financial results.
We will then open your call to questions.
Please note that during today's conference call comparisons for the June year-to-date period are against adjusted 2010 results.
Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information related to this call can be found in our earnings release or on our website.
In addition statements in this conference call relating to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed in CBS Corporation's news releases and securities filings.
A webcast of this call and the earnings release related to today's presentation can be found on the Investors section of our website at cbscorporation.com.
With that it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Sumner.
Thank you Adam.
Good afternoon everyone.
I thank you for being with us today.
CBS's second quarter performance was absolutely terrific.
Our results which follow up a remarkable first quarter demonstrate one more time that our company is operating from a clear position of strength.
Our world-class content is at the very top of its game.
Most important a continuous demand -- a premium across every distribution platform.
Our success is the result of the long-term strategy we've been telling you about [indiscernible] to grow revenues in diverse ways to manage our expenses with discipline to deliver healthy profits and to create value by returning cash to shareholders.
And in the second quarter CBS achieved all of that and even more.
But you know strategy isn't enough.
You need a management team to execute that strategy.
We are fortunate to have an executive in charge of CBS that's about as great as they come and management teams to match.
And as a result CBS keeps just getting better and stronger.
I have the utmost confidence that we are poised to achieve greater heights in the years to come.
And with that to tell you more about the extraordinary second quarter performance I'll turn the call over to my friend and colleague CBS President.
But before I do many of you would have heard me say that Leslie is a genius.
Why? Because Leslie's performance in operating CBS is a performance of a genius.
And with that I'll turn it over to CBS's President and CEO my very good friend Les Moonves.
Thank you Sumner.
Thank you very much for those kind words.
And good afternoon to everybody.
We do indeed thank you for joining us once again today.
Yes it's been a very interesting day.
It's been a very interesting week.
There are certain things we can't control like what goes on in Washington but we can control what we do at CBS.
And nonetheless despite what may have happened we are very pleased to share our exceptional second quarter results with you today.
Across every key financial metric we turned in a stellar performance and the numbers speak for themselves.
Despite a lack of political dollars tough comps and some challenging macroeconomic factors revenue was up 8% OIBDA was up 51% and diluted EPS was up 164%.
We achieved these results thanks to strong performances from our business units across the board.
National and local content and distribution our operations continue to produce solid growth and increasing profits.
We also achieved these results by doing exactly what we said we were going to do at our Analyst Day earlier this year.
At that event we laid out some of the most exciting areas of growth for our company that you may not have even be aware of.
Let's take a minute to look at how we're delivering on these opportunities since our last call.
First we said we would drive revenue and profit growth not just from traditional sources but increasingly from emerging platforms as well.
So building on the Netflix deal we signed in the first quarter we entered into a nonexclusive licensing agreement with Amazon a few weeks ago.
This deal is another example of how we are capitalizing on the value of our content by selling it to new distributors without taking away from established revenue streams.
New entrants are coming into the marketplace all the time and we will look to negotiate additional prudent online distribution deals going forward.
Next we also emphasized that the demand for CBS content has never been stronger overseas.
During the quarter we screened our new shows to the international television buying community leading to increased sales of our programming around the world.
And just last week we announced the new separate nonexclusive agreement with Netflix International to stream our programming in Latin America and Canada.
International expansion is a key strategic growth area for our company and this deal represents a significant step in that process.
Please remember neither the Amazon deal nor the Netflix International deal is reflected in this past quarter that was so excellent.
We also walk you through a number of structural changes happening in the industry that are allowing us to derisk our business model and diversify our revenue base with additional non-advertising sources.
These include growing retransmission fees reverse compensation from our affiliates and the great upside we have in our local media businesses.
We continue to move forward on all of these initiatives generating increasing revenues from each of them all the time.
As we discussed at the Analyst Day these opportunities have significant room for long-term growth and we're making solid headway on each of them right now.
Due to our success CBS is a fundamentally different company today than we were just a few years ago and the benefits of these fundamental changes to our business model are clearly coming through in our results and our investors have benefited as well.
So let me discuss our exceptional results now.
Then I'll point out some highlights from our businesses before I turn it over to Joe for more details.
After that we'll be happy to take your questions.
As I pointed out earlier CBS's bottom line performance was extremely strong.
Diluted EPS well more than doubled to $0.58 for the quarter.
That's up from $0.22 a year ago and is just below record levels.
OIBDA increased to $873 million up 51% as every single one of our operating segments turned in strong profit growth.
Just like with EPS our OIBDA performance was also near record levels for the quarter just shy of the company's all-time high.
Plus our second quarter margin of 24% was up 7 points from last year's quarter.
We continue to manage our expenses closely and as a result our revenue growth is translating into near-record profit levels across the board.
Meanwhile revenue grew solidly too up 8% to $3.6 billion for the quarter.
Once again this was achieved despite difficult comparisons to last year which included significant political dollars.
We also generated very healthy levels of free cash flow of 32% for the quarter.
Year-to-date free cash flow of $1.5 billion is up 30% and represents a record for our company.
Our strong free cash flow allowed us to continue to deliver on our commitment to create value for CBS shareholders.
During the quarter we repurchased 250 million of CBS stock and doubled our quarterly dividend payment to $0.10 per share.
At the heart of all this success is great content.
Our content is performing extremely well and we are increasingly distributing it in the most profitable ways with new possibilities opening up all the time.
Let's take a closer look at our businesses starting with our largest operating segment Entertainment.
During the quarter the CBS Television Network ended the 2010 11th season as America's most-watched network for the eighth time in the past 9 years.
We had the #1 scripted series drama in NCIS the #1 comedy in the Big Bang Theory and the #1 news magazine in 60 Minutes.
We also had more time-period winning programs than any other network and the #1 scripted series every single night of the week.
Looking ahead we are confident that our primetime lineup is only getting stronger.
We had only very few spots to fill and we've added 5 new series the next fall that are the best of the best.
We ended the season with scatter pricing up 40% which carried us into this year's upfront marketplace with remarkable strength.
In the upfront we once again led the way in total dollars and rate increases which were up in the mid-teens setting us up for strong revenue growth in 2012.
At the same time we continue to benefit from big event broadcast television including our new long-term agreements for the NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament which paid off very well for us in the second quarter.
In addition during the quarter we signed a new deal to broadcast the Grammys for another decade on more favorable financial terms.
And we also have the Southeastern Conference the SEC considered by most to be the most valuable college football conference locked up for 12 more years.
These long-term deals will benefit for a long long time.
Events like these pull together audiences only found on broadcast television and also drive social media usage like nothing else can making them all the more valuable.
And needless to say we're very pleased that the NFL has negotiated a new long-term agreement with its players.
We remained optimistic throughout this process and are now getting ready for another terrific season of football and all that goes along with that.
The teams and owners are happy.
The players are happy.
The network is happy.
Our 7 AFC ONOs are happy.
The affiliates are happy and most of all our audience is happy.
So this is a very good thing.
At CBS News with our new management team is making terrific progress as well.
The Evening News with Scott Pelley is off to a very good start.
We added more than 0.25 million viewers in the program's first 2 weeks on the air and our focus is to continue this momentum as we work to showcase the very best in broadcast journalism across the organization.
Moving to our Cable segment where we also continue to grow.
Showtime CBS Sports Network and Smithsonian all delivered increases in both rates and subscriptions.
Showtime subs totaled $20.5 million at the end of the quarter up 13% year-over-year.
Showtime's steady stream of original series is fueling our success and we expect to build on this with returning favorites like The Big C Weeds and Dexter as well as with some of our promising new shows coming in the fall including House of Lies and Homeland.
Showtime is also benefiting from higher international syndication and Home Entertainment revenues as the demand for hip programming continues to increase around the world.
So just as we do with our network programming we are generating incremental dollars in cable by selling our premium content over and over again.
At our Publishing division Simon &amp; Schuster is embracing digital distribution as effectively as any of the businesses in our Content group.
Digital sales more than doubled year-over-year and given the improved profitability of e-books our OIBDA results were very strong.
Once again it's about delivering great content.
So far this year we've had 126 books on the New York Times bestseller list including the recent success of The Greater Journey by David McCullough and looking ahead we're already seeing strong sales of Jaycee Dugard's A Stolen Life which set a new Simon &amp; Schuster record for one-day e-book sales on its debut and sold 240 000 digital copies in its first 2 weeks.
Moving to our local group.
As you know TV stations face tremendous pressures in odd years due to comparisons with political years.
2010 was an extremely strong political year for us and despite that we were still up in our Local Broadcasting segment this quarter with growth at both our TV stations and at radio.
Going forward we expect political advertising will begin to pick up toward the end of the year and as we've been seeing these past few weeks the 2012 political season is already underway and next year as we've seen just in the past few days promises to be another big one in terms of political revenue.
Also TV stations were up despite a temporary slowdown in Japanese auto spending.
As this spending comes back we feel very good about this key category going forward.
Because of these factors we're confident that we will be able to successfully manage our Local Broadcasting businesses for continued growth just as we did in the second quarter.
Finally our outdoor-business is growing at a strong pace too.
This segment is increasingly benefiting from newly restructured contracts and with capital costs going down we're building out digital displays which are a high-growth area.
We're also benefiting from high occupancy levels and further pricing improvements though outdoor has a very good story as well.
As you can see across every segment of our company CBS's second quarter performance was extraordinary.
Our content continues to fuel new and growing revenue on every platform proving that hit programming is more valuable than it has ever been.
In capitalizing on this trend we're delivering on our promise to diversify and derisk our business model driving earnings to near-record levels.
We're also managing our expenses closely in every one of our businesses to ensure that more and more revenues fall into the bottom line.
Plus our balance sheet has never been stronger and we continue to reap the benefit of the debt actions we've taken to reduce interest costs.
Finally we are delivering on our promise to return free cash flow to shareholders through ongoing share repurchases and increased dividends.
Enhancing shareholder value is a commitment that we will continue to fulfill quarter in and quarter out.
So once again it was a rough day but our quarter was great with high single-digit revenue growth 50-plus-percent OIBDA growth and 100-plus-percent EPS gross -- growth.
Needless to say I'm extremely pleased with our performance.
We continue to command a very desirable competitive position that I have every reason to believe that we will deliver strong results throughout the rest of the year into 2012 and beyond.
With that I'll turn it over to Joe.
Joe? Thanks Les and good afternoon everyone.
Today I will provide some more detail on the results for the quarter then update you on what we see ahead.
Let's start with the total company results for the quarter.
This was a very strong clean and straightforward quarter.
There were no adjustments made to reported results for the quarter.
Revenue of $3.6 billion was up 8% from the prior year.
Advertising revenue grew 3% despite the difficult comparisons for political advertising and the shared revenues with Turner on our new NCAA agreement.
Content licensing and distribution revenue was up 21% driven by the early benefit of our new domestic Netflix agreement.
Affiliate and subscription fees were up 12% benefiting from ongoing growth in cable and retransmission consent fees.
OIBDA of $873 million was up 51% from the prior year as we continue to expand our margin.
This significant improvement was driven by a number of factors including the performance of our base businesses our continued focus on cost containment the benefits of our new NCAA agreement and a strong mix of high-margin incremental revenue.
Our overall OIBDA margin in the second quarter expanded 700 basis points to 24%.
Operating income of $734 million was up 69%.
And as Les said reported diluted EPS came in at $0.58 up 164% another quarter of demonstrating the strong operating leverage of our businesses.
And on a year-to-date basis revenue was up 3% despite the difficult comps of last year's Super Bowl and the political advertising as well as our new NCAA agreement that I just mentioned.
Year-to-date OIBDA was up 55%.
Year-to-date operating income was up 81%.
And year-to-date diluted EPS was up 190%.
Turning to our operating segments.
Entertainment revenue for the quarter was $1.8 billion up 10% driven by higher advertising at the CBS Network greater content licensing fees through the first phase of our domestic Netflix deal and a third cycle domestic syndication sale of Frasier to cable.
OIBDA for the Entertainment segment came in at $440 million up 97% representing a 24% margin.
The strength of our Entertainment margin reflects many of the benefits from the actions we've taken to derisk the business and generate new high-margin revenue.
In our Cable segment revenue for the quarter was $413 million up 12% primarily as a result of subscription and rate increases as well as increases in international licensing revenues and DVD sales from original series once again demonstrating the value of owning content.
Cable OIBDA of $176 million was up 36% to a 43% margin.
We said on our first quarter call that we expected margin expansion at the Cable segment and you're seeing that today.
Publishing revenue of $183 million for the quarter was down 3% as the strong growth in the sale of more profitable digital content was offset by lower traditional print sales.
Digital sales represented 15% of total Publishing revenues compared to 5% a year ago.
Despite the slightly lower revenue Publishing OIBDA grew 12% to $19 million demonstrating the higher margin associated with digital sales.
As the digital transition continues we expect additional margin expansion at this segment.
Local Broadcasting revenue of $691 million was up 2% for the quarter.
Radio revenue was up 4% and TV revenue was up slightly.
This was another quarter of posting growth at TV stations even with the difficult political comps the temporary Japanese auto production issues and one less television station.
We want to point out that domestic auto was up in the high-teens for the quarter demonstrating the underlying strength in this important category.
Other categories leading the way were financial services pharmaceutical and telecom.
Local Broadcasting OIBDA was $230 million up 7% for the quarter representing a 33% margin.
And finally Outdoor revenue for the quarter was up 7% to $490 million with the Americas also up 7% on a constant dollar basis.
Revenue growth continues to come from increased pricing as occupancy levels remain high particularly in our large markets.
Outdoor OIBDA of $86 million increased 9% over a year ago.
We expect to see better OIBDA margins by the end of this year as we benefit from improved long-term contracts.
Turning to cash flow and our balance sheet.
As Les said free cash flow came in at $646 million for the quarter up 32%.
Year-to-date free cash flow of $1.5 billion was up 30% even with a difficult Super Bowl comparison from last year.
On a year-to-date basis cash interest was lower by over $50 million and CapEx at the halfway mark was $95 million well within our full year estimate of $250 million to $300 million.
During the quarter we retired 9.9 million shares of our stock and spent $250 million of our buyback program.
For the first 6 months of 2011 we've spent $500 million of the $1.5 billion share repurchase program and retired early 22 million shares at an average price just over $23 per share.
Our cash on hand at the end of the second quarter was $1.35 billion.
After the quarter we made a payment into the company's qualified pension plans in the amount of $200 million.
Given the interest rate environment our strong cash position and our cash status this was a very efficient use of cash.
Now let me take you through what we're seeing in the short and longer term.
Starting with Q3 scatter pricing remains at plus 40% as we head into the new season and start to benefit from this year's strong upfront.
Nonpolitical TV stations revenue is pacing up low-single digits.
Radio stations are also pacing to be up low-single digits and our Outdoor group is currently pacing to be up mid-single digits.
On the longer-term side we continue to focus on the initiatives we laid out at our Investor Day in February.
We're making solid progress on derisking our business model and driving significant new high-margin non-advertising revenue streams.
We will update you as we continue to execute on these initiatives going forward.
We also continue to manage our cost structure very effectively and our primary use of excess free cash flow will be to return it to shareholders via a combination of share buyback and dividend.
We believe this strategy will benefit us for many years to come.
In summary our results were very strong this quarter and we continue to take strategic steps to ensure that this success continues for the rest of this year and many years ahead.
With that Jay we can open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Jessica Reif Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
On Showtime I guess it's the Showtime cost in the Cable Network division how long will you have these favorable comparisons? Well Jessica it's Joe.
I think again the cost I mean because of original programming there's a little bit of the timing of when shows premier and when they're expensive and when we have the promo.
So but I think when you look at the margin we're comfortable on the 40% margin prospectively.
Okay.
And then I guess 2 more questions.
Frasier if you could say how big that third cycle was.
And then I know you gave really good color on kind of what you're seeing in the near-term in advertising.
But with what's going on with the government is so unusual I'm just wondering if you were -- at what point can you just remind everyone what point do you -- can advertisers back away? Do you have any sense in talking to your key advertisers if they plan on backing away over the next quarter or two? Jessica I'll answer the last question first then I'll let Joe do it.
Advertisers can back away a few weeks before but we have seen absolutely none of that.
As a matter of fact with football coming back and the fall season coming ahead we are seeing increased demand for our shows.
And locally as Joe mentioned our pacing is fine.
Japanese automakers are coming back.
So we are not at all afraid and frankly we're looking forward to the fall.
And Jessica we don't obviously break out the profitability on each particular show.
All I would tell you it's not significant to the overall margin expansion but it was obviously very helpful to continue to have product that again the first second and third cycle continue to sell very well.
Our next question comes from Laura Martin with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Les for you the number that blew everybody's estimates away was [indiscernible] EBITDA on Entertainment.
You mentioned in your prepared remarks.
Could you -- I'm wondering if you could give an update on other more granularity on the potential deal like the Netflix and Amazon deals? And also on international what markets specifically are so robust that it's really helping this profit number? And then Joe for you if you wouldn't mind talking about -- I noticed we're building a big cash balance here and I'm delighted that you spent $200 million after the close of the quarter through this early prepayment of pensions.
But our debt is kind of flat and I'm just thinking through the use of proceeds here you're really very constant in repurchasing shares.
Could we see a step-up in share repurchases or prepayment of that pension plan rather than this cash build? Or there's some reason we want to build all this cash on the books? Good.
Regarding the content deals what's exciting about it is there are people have said "Who else besides Netflix is getting into the ballgame?" And obviously we did a significant deal with Amazon which is becoming big and DISH just announced today that they're going to spend a considerable amount of money buying content and buying libraries.
So when you look at our current content our ownership position we have a pretty phenomenal library.
And what we like to say about both Amazon and Netflix none of the things we sold are currently shows that are on the air.
So the world is getting bigger every day and expanding and we hear about Apple wanting to buy content and Google et cetera et cetera and Microsoft.
So we think having the content we have is going to get bigger and bigger.
Internationally obviously we're expanding into Latin America and South America.
It's becoming fairly significant.
As well as Eastern Europe and the Far East are also markets that weren't open before.
And in the traditional markets like Europe what's great is they're sort of like America was 15 or 20 years ago where it used to be a small number of channels.
Now with cable blossoming there's a lot more competition and once again the international numbers go up considerably every single year.
Joe? Sure.
Laura on the cash balance yes.
I think obviously it's $1.35 billion and look we'll continue to focus on returning capital to shareholders.
I think we're on track for 2011 share repurchases of $1 billion plus plus you add to the dividend of that of a couple of $100 million so you could see where we're returning our value to our shareholders.
So we'll continue to do that.
Obviously opportunistically we'll relook at the pension funding and look and make another contribution if the environment is right.
So this is obviously giving us a lot of tremendous flexibility but our primary use like I said in my remarks will be to return it to shareholders.
We'll go next to Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Just a quick housekeeping Joe.
I don't know if you have this but I was curious if you could give us the political ad number for the stations in Q3 and Q4 for the back half of last year just so we can understand what the comp is.
And then sort of more strategic Les when you look at your businesses over the next 3 to 5 years at least in our view the biggest area of growth and transformation of CBS is from retransmission fees which does in fact tie back to the existing "cable satellite telco pay TV" bundle.
And so I was wondering if you could just spend a minute on how you think about selling library content to these new distribution platforms in the effort of maximizing the value of the library.
So we hear 7% of your library to Netflix and try to think about what the real opportunity there is as more people come in and want more content? And in contrast how do you think about making those shows available at what price points versus trying to make sure you're not creating some of that eats up the sort of the big opportunity for you on the bundle.
Okay Ben it's Joe.
I'll start.
For political I think last year we said to arrive $200 million of political dollars for the segment and I think we also said directionally about 50% of that comes in the fourth quarter.
So hopefully that's helpful for you.
Ben as we look forward we said 2012 in terms of retrans we'll have our -- we are shooting for a goal of $250 million and we feel very confident we will hit that and that does not include any of the fees that we're going to get from our affiliates.
So over the next 3 to 5 years we think combined those numbers can be in the $600 million to $700 million range for those.
And so that's something once again that drops right to the bottom line and then it's going to be growing every single year from now.
Knowing that we have a 10-year Comcast deal in place and a 5-year Time Warner deal in place we sort of know we're sort of guaranteed those revenues coming in.
And how we look at our library and our content once again we continue to replenish our library.
Yes we have a lot of old stuff and part of this -- part of the Netflix and Amazon deal go back to original episodes of Star Trek and I Love Lucy but they also include a show like Medium which just went off the air this past year.
What we've been able to do successfully is continue to replenish our library.
We have 3 CSIs that are now on the air that aren't part of these Netflix deals or the Amazon deals.
One day they will come off the air and we will get a lot of money for those in those platforms.
So the idea is our production companies both at CBS as well as original production at Showtime are going to continue to produce numerous revenue streams and our library is astronomical.
There's plenty and plenty of series going back.
Remember our library is comprised of the old Paramount library the old Aaron Spelling library the old CBS library and the old Teen World library.
So we have a ton of content and each one of these packages can just grow.
Now in Netflix that 7% does include a lot of our prime library stuff like Cheers and Frasier but we have plenty more and there'll be plenty more coming in.
We'll go next to Michael Nathanson with Nomura.
I have one for Les and one for Joe.
Les just take you back a couple of years ago 3 years ago in the recession.
Clearly the markets worry that we're headed back to a double dip and I wonder you talked about it a bit but could you just relate to the tone of the market you're in now on the national side to what you saw 3 years ago? And what are -- in terms of the tone or the people coming in to buy how does that feel versus 3 years ago? So can you correspond this point to where people were 3 years ago in terms of demand? Yes I mean right now once again 3 years ago the scatter wasn't as high as it was nor was the upfront demand as high as it was.
So we're not seeing anything like that like we felt 3 years ago.
Obviously its been a rough couple of days but we haven't seen anything that reflects that the same tone as then which was much more of doom and gloom and we are not feeling that or seeing any of that.
Once again the recent NFL deal is a big shot in the arm to us and to our advertisers.
As a matter of fact once that deal got signed a week ago they were streaming in.
So that was fairly significant.
As Joe pointed out auto has been very strong and we expect Japan to increase on that so we are not feeling any of that sort of sentiment as we felt 3 years ago.
Okay.
And then one for Joe following up on the Japanese comments.
How big is Japanese auto represent for your local stations? And what type of range was it down in the quarter? It was down significantly Michael.
It's a big category now.
All of the kind of countries were actually up it wasn't just domestic but domestic led the way.
I mean the key for us is the demand is there.
And I think everyone is focused that the temporary productions are behind them and they'll be at full speed by the end of this year.
So we're seeing orders come back in so again but it is a -- auto was the #1 category as you know in Local Broadcasting and Japan is a significant piece of that.
Would it be like teens of revenues? In what in terms of percentage? Yes.
By itself no probably not teens but close.
We'll go next to Anthony DiClemente with Barclays Capital.
First question's for whoever has negotiated the streaming video deals.
I suspect Joe.
The question is it seems like an early precedents being set in terms of the way those deals are being signed those being on a fixed-fee basis and I just wonder as the digital distribution market develops and as you guys perhaps start selling some earlier window product do you foresee that structure staying the same? Or do you think it's possible as the market matures you  might at some point move to like a per-use or a per-subscriber model? And then I have a follow-up.
Okay it's Joe Anthony.
So yes Les and I are both involved in all of those negotiations just to answer your question.
I'll just let you know that again every deal is different.
So just understand we have an expectation of what fair market value is for our content.
So if a deal is on a per-subscriber basis and somebody has the very few subscribers that it clearly doesn't make sense.
But you should assume that we anticipate to grow with these companies as they build their businesses so we have to get our value one way or another.
So you will see that and we'll have a lot of flexibility built into those deals.
So the answer is the negotiations will evolve as the business evolves.
And Anthony just to amplify on that a bit the Netflix and the Amazons in the world are relatively new in terms of video content.
So it's important that Amazon pay us upfront for that and give us a fixed amount for this content and they will grow their business accordingly.
But we'd rather take the money at this point.
We think that's a much better business model and let them grow their subs and go from there.
Okay Les.
And do you think that the proliferation of these new platforms mitigates the need for you guys to go out and make a strategic acquisition in Cable Networks space? Or do you think that CBS could still or could benefit from a basic cable network as another means of revenue stream diversification? Thanks Anthony.
You know what it is not on our must-do list.
We are bringing in so much money when we talk about our content food chain starting with network advertising going into what we're selling in syndication then going into these new platforms.
The need for a basic cable network to put our content on no longer becomes very important to us.
So we're fine without it.
Our next question comes from John Janedis with UBS.
Les can you talk a little bit more about ratings which I guess have been a little bit soft for CBS and peers and time shifted viewing evading ads.
The penetration of DVR has increased to over 50%.
Is there risks that help pressure ratings for repeats in longer term maybe impacts the rates you can get in syndication? John our ratings are always soft in June.
We don't have original programming.
It's all repeats.
Until after July 4 we get Big Brother on the air.
And it's always soft this time of the year and it doesn't really matter because so little of the revenue comparably is involved then.
And then frankly our ratings we've won the last 4 weeks in ratings.
Once July began we are back in the ballgame.
DVR penetration and it's been a subject for a number of years when it first came out.
Once again it was could be the killer of primetime.
It's actually increased primetime viewing.
We've used this statistic many times before.
Even our most loyal fan or any loyal fan of any television show be it CSI or Modern Family only watches 2 out of 4 on the air and they catch up with the other 2.
And if they watch it in the first 72 hours we get credit for it.
So DVR for people who make hit programming is a plus and we found it that way.
Okay so no impact.
All right.
We'll go next to Michael Morris with Davenport.
LLC</strong> A couple of questions.
First of all could you talk a little bit more risk of delivering a point here but it's about the national advertising environment.
How did you actually pace in the second quarter? And that 40% number for scatter continues to be I mean it's huge especially in light of what the sentiment is right now.
Can you just talk a bit about what that means? How big is that for you in terms of actually driving the revenue number? And how should we be thinking about the new season in terms of risk for year-over-year scatter pricing? How are you looking at that? Yes sure.
Okay Michael.
Look our national advertising obviously in this time of the year we're in repeats.
So you got to have comparable issues but the pricing clearly is still there.
There's not a whole lot of inventory available to drive the absolute dollars.
So again we're really focused on the new upfront season starting which doesn't kick off 'til the end of September.
So you're really going to see the biggest impact of that in the fourth quarter not the third quarter.
And frankly about end-season risk we sold around 80% because the rates were so high at the upfront.
And as I said with all this football money coming in right now we're a very low risk.
And frankly in addition with only 5 new shows and they're very well located knowing what we know about our schedule you could bet the house that our ratings are going to be there and that our advertising revenue will be there.
LLC</strong> And so NFL I mean ratings were incredible last year.
Is that a situation similar to where if you sort of exceed your guarantees you leave some money on the table.
In the upfront processor are there rating points that you can incrementally monetize this year if you hit the same levels? Or did you monetize it all last year? By the way we don't we never sell floor below.
We never undersell our stuff so it's always utilized.
The ratings were phenomenal in football.
We see no reason to think that we won't do equally as well if not better.
And frankly because of those phenomenal ratings we were able to sell it at a much higher price right now.
And there's such a scarcity that in the inventory it's a terrific thing.
We'll go next to Doug Mitchelson with Deutsche Bank.
Just a couple of short ones.
Les any concerns about competing with X Factor? Could that be disruptive this fall? I'm not concerned.
I think X Factor is going to be a big hit but the good thing about CBS is we were sort of idol-proof.
Idol is still a monster.
Idol's still a killer.
I wish I had it.
I hate that it's on Fox.
And X Factor I think will be equally wonderful but you know what? Our shows we are much more sold in the scripted area.
We're very -- we're the most competitive towards it.
So I think it'll do very well but it won't hurt us.
On the scatter side you talked about it a bit already.
Some networks are seeing advertisers trying to topple up the upfront.
We've seen that occasionally in prior years.
Are you seeing that as well? And how are you balancing that against saying no and pushing those folks into the 4Q scatter market? We haven't sold anything after the upfront.
We're confident with our fall schedule so much that -- I mean Jo Ann Ross and her terrific team did such a good job.
And some guys who we negotiated and tried to get like a high single-digit rate and she said "Sorry we're not going to sell it " came back after the fact then she said "Sorry guys too late.
Too late you want to come in at scatter time." And we're betting once again that scatter is going to be better than the upfront and we're betting that our schedule's going to be better than our competitors'.
I know it's a bit early but we are seeing some peer networks starting to sell 4Q scatter.
They're already sold out for 3Q already maybe that's part of it.
Are you starting to sell 4Q scatter at all? No no we're not.
Once again we have -- you have to remember that there's much more stability in our schedule than our competitors'.
Fox is fairly stable.
The other guys have a lot of new shows a lot of shows that have moved around.
They don't know what they're going to do.
Some of them are very good shows.
We have stability.
I'm very confident in how we're going to do in the fall.
We'll go next to David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> In keeping with the operator's request I have 1 question but it will be in 3 unrelated parts.
The first one is can you guys talk about what you think the greatest opportunities are on the margin side? Obviously the core margins as you sell more of this content business is probably going to improve.
But can you address it a little bit broader in terms of your views what the opportunities are? The second question is a couple of months ago at the Investor Day you gave a I think a $500 million target for international syndication over the next couple of years.
And I think a lot of us were surprised with what we assume the magnitude is on the Netflix International deal.
Did that number -- was that sort of a traditional media number and digital is kind of gravy or was that all in there? And the last question is a little bit of a follow-up I think to the prior one and the one before which is can you give an apples-to-apples number on network advertising adjusting for the difference in the NCAA stuff and whatever else you think makes sense in 2Q? Let me -- David it's Joe.
Let me start with your first 1 or 1.5 and then we'll tag team it.
The greatest opportunities for the margin obviously retransmission consent fees are 100 cent dollars.
Those expand our margins vastly.
So obviously we've quantified that for you.
We're talking hundreds of millions of dollars to benefit.
Obviously -- so we feel pretty good about that.
We see it feel that ramping up in '12 and beyond.
We're looking ahead and just staying with 2012.
Clearly the upfront is behind us.
Advertising all we pay is the commission on those revenues so that feels pretty good.
We know it's a presidential election year so we know that's going to increase demand at the local marketplace.
So advertising has got real high margin.
Retransmission content fees real high margin.
And then these X VOD deals that we're doing with the Netflixes and Amazons of the world are very high margin kind of 50-plus 60% margin.
So when we're sitting her with a 24% margin the 3 buckets that I just mentioned that are hundreds of millions of dollars are clearly accretive to our margin.
So we're feeling pretty good about that.
And on the $500 million number that was really just meant for more traditional sources.
So yes the Netflix International is gravy.
So we want to put gravy want to put some cream we want to put cherry on top of all that stuff so stay tuned for more of that.
Okay what else did we miss? Apples-to-apples on network advertising.
Oh apples-to-apples.
I think again it's in the mid-single-digit range.
Just when you kind of strip out everything and try to put it on a level playing field.
Partly do that David but that's directional.
We'll go next to David Miller with Caris &amp; Company.
Les just hindsight being 20/20 on the upfront.
And most of us were expecting you guys to be the market leader in terms of CPM growth and indeed you were.
But just the hindsight being 20/20 in your opinion was upfront so strong on a CPM basis and on a volume basis for you guys just because there were so many advertisers last year that sat out the upfront they got burned by the scatter market and they had no choice but to come in no matter what the macroenvironment? Or are we looking at more of kind of a slow growth environment where say for example the technology industry these guys are just going to beat each other up to try to take share and obviously network advertising is the best platform to do that? Thank you David.
Look it was a terrific market for all the networks.
Even some of the other networks were doing high-singles after coming in fourth place.
So they -- once you get scatter into the 35% 40% range it's really a great market for us.
And everybody was there because as I said in a previous earnings call somebody who bought in May and -- or somebody who didn't buy in May and then the following October they had to pay 30% more for the same spot that they either got beaten up by their client or their advertising agent or their boss and they came in.
So we sort of set a number.
We set the number fairly early that we wouldn't accept any lower then and that was in the mid-teens area.
And no matter what anybody else did we stuck to our guns.
We got what we wanted.
We could've sold out 100% frankly at that amount.
As I said we kept it to 80%.
So we were very pleased with how the upfront turned out.
And if you just relate it to Jessica's question if you have any cancellations or if folks are thinking about canceling they want to be doing it now correct? It's too early.
They'd be doing it more like early September or so? Do I have that correct? Well they could do it.
They could do it now but they're not and there are people who are buying scatter who would love to have those slots.
So it's not a factor.
And our final question will come from Marci Ryvicker from Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> I have 2 quick ones.
First of all in the TV space there've been a lot of stations for that are up for sale.
And there's a thought that the affiliates are looking to get bigger in order to gain more leverage against the networks as they negotiate for reverse comp.
So have you any thoughts on consolidation in TV and if that would have any impact on your negotiations? That's the first question.
And then secondly in Outdoor.
Joe you said Q3 is pacing up mid-single digits.
Can you break out Americas versus International and maybe comment specifically on the U.K.
and France? Marcy I'll do the first question and I'll let Joe at the second.
We have seen no consolidation in terms of that to offset us.
Frankly we've had very productive conversations with our affiliates.
We haven't seen them banding together to come against the networks.
We've made a number of these affiliate deals for reverse comp without pulling down any signals anywhere.
Some of them are tough negotiations but we haven't seen guys band together or even acquire.
There hasn't been a whole lot of station acquisitions.
And we're in the process of getting some of our larger station groups done at very good rates and everybody's happy.
And Marci on your last part with Outdoor both Europe and Americas are in that same range so really no difference.
And for us Europe is really led by U.K.
and France.
Those are our larger countries that really move the needle.
So I think again overall we're comfortable with that mid-single-digit range.
Thank you Marci.
And thanks everyone for joining us.
Have a great evening tonight.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the CBS Corporation Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Teleconference.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to the Executive Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Jay.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
Joining me for today's discussion are Sumner Redstone our Executive Chairman; Leslie Moonves President and CEO; and Joe Ianniello Executive Vice President and CFO.
Sumner will have opening remarks and we'll turn the call over to Les and Joe who will then discuss the strategic and financial results.
We will then open the call up to questions.
Please note that during today's conference call financial results for the 2011 third quarter and 9-month periods with the exception of revenue are compared against adjusted 2010 results.
Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information related to this call can be found on our earnings release or on our website.
In addition statements on this conference call relating to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed in CBS Corporation's news releases and security filings.
A webcast of this call and the earnings release related to today's presentation can be found on the Investors section of our website at cbscorporation.com.
And with that it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Sumner.
Thank you Adam and good afternoon everyone.
I thank you all for being with us today.
As you know CBS is trailing yet another quarter of very fantastic results.
We have consistently delivered growth and profitability of course driven by the success of our premium content all over the world.
In every area we compete CBS is thriving.
We continue to lead as the #1 network.
We're signing more and more online distribution deals.
We're launching one Showtime hit after another and Simon &amp; Schuster publishing the bestsellers.
We have a stable growth at our Local business.
Our content is getting more and more and more valuable everyday.
As we close out 2011 we are operating from a clear position of strength.
And I tell you 2012 promises to be even better.
But it's not enough as you know to have great content.
We have to have a great management team as well and we do.
Les and his team continue to make every right move and CBS has remarkable success quarter after quarter.
And now here to tell you all about it is the man himself.
But before I introduce Les let me say this.
I have frequently called Les a genius.
The reason he's a genius: He has 20 out of the top 30 shows on television something actually unheard of.
That's why he's a genius.
So let me introduce my friend my colleague the genius himself Les Moonves.
Thank you Sumner.
I appreciate those kind words.
Good afternoon everybody and thank you for joining us again.
For many quarters now we have posted results that speak to the strength stability and progress of our company.
Today's numbers are no exception and the good news is that due to our performance the strategic actions we've been taking and our ability to take advantage of the fundamental shifts in our industry we are positioned for continued success going forward including in 2012 which promises to be a very very good year.
Our competitive position is as strong as ever.
And as one of the world's leading content companies the ways we are monetizing our programming are growing all the time from retrans to reverse comp to streaming to our expanding international business.
All of these new opportunities mean increased stability to our revenue base and more and more dollars falling to the bottom line.
This past third quarter was indicative of the type of performance we have set ourselves up to achieve.
We turned top line growth into sharp increases in OIBDA up 25% and EPS which was up 43%.
And our OIBDA margin once again reached peak levels that we haven't seen since '06 and '07.
Plus as we continue to tap recurring non-advertising revenue streams we are diversifying our revenue base.
In the third quarter our mix of advertising-related revenue came in at just 59%.
So we are clearly tracking ahead of our strategy to diversify and de-risk the company.
Across the board we're delivering on our strategies and priming CBS to take advantage of some very exciting developments down the road.
And the fact that we have this kind of confidence in the future is why we're announcing today a plan to buy back another $1.5 billion of our stock in addition to the $1.5 billion that is currently underway.
This is also in addition to the dividend that we recently doubled.
So clearly returning value to our shareholder is of significant importance to us.
Today I'm going to take a closer look at our third quarter numbers and then discuss a few of the operating highlights at each of our segments.
And after that I'll turn it over to Joe for more analysis and financial information.
And then we'll take your questions.
Despite the lack of political dollars this year versus last third quarter revenues grew 2% to $3.4 billion.
This kind of growth is extremely unusual for a non-political year.
It was achieved by strength in our traditional businesses as well as the kinds of recurring non-advertising revenues I just referenced.
Once again we were able to turn revenue growth into strong profit growth with OIBDA up 25% to $837 million for the quarter and EPS up 43% coming in at $0.50 per diluted share.
Our growth has been consistent all year long.
Year-to-date our OIBDA is up 43% and EPS 109%.
As mentioned we are clearly being helped by new sources of high-margin revenue as well as the underlying performance of our established businesses.
But we also continue to hold down costs including programming expenses that were lower than a year ago and we're benefiting from all the debt reduction we implemented last year the benefits of which will also continue.
In addition our free cash flow has been terrific.
We have now generated $1.5 billion in cash year-to-date and have nearly $1 billion of cash on hand at the end of the quarter.
This is after contributing to our pension plans and returning significant value to our shareholders.
Along these lines as I mentioned we have doubled our share repurchase program by another $1.5 billion.
This expanded program is scheduled for 2012 and 2013 and reflects the positive visibility we have in our operations across the company into the future.
Also during the quarter we made the first increased payment of our quarterly dividend that was doubled from a year ago.
Going forward whether it be share buybacks or dividend payments returning value to our shareholders will continue to be a top priority.
Now let's take a look at how our success is reflected in each of our operating segments beginning with Entertainment led by the CBS Television Network which as you know is off to a terrific start again this year.
Our Entertainment segment continues to be driven by the increasing value of we call the content chain which in all ways we are getting paid for our programs.
The CBS Television Network is the first and most important link on that chain and it continues to perform brilliantly.
Primetime advertising the network's bread and butter was up solidly in the third quarter and our ratings this quarter in the new fall season are significantly outpacing the field.
CBS is averaging 2.5 million viewers ahead of our closest competitor a difference of 24%.
Through the first 6 weeks of the season CBS is also the first network since people meters began in 1987 to have 9 of the top 10 scripted series on television.
And a few weeks ago we made television history as the first network to ever broadcast 20 of the top 30 programs for the week.
The network's success extends across all key measures.
CBS is up year-over-year in viewers households 25 to 54 and yes 18 to 49.
In fact we were the first network since 2002 to have the #1 drama the #1 comedy and the #1 new series in 18 to 49 through the first month of the season.
With this kind of broad-based success we have an unmatched platform to launch new shows and keep growing our momentum well into the future.
Once again whoever says network television is a cyclical business hasn't been paying attention to CBS which has been the leader in 9 of the last 10 years.
Given the success of our ratings we are the network clearly leading the way in the scatter marketplace.
At CBS we are delivering our audience across every single demographic.
As this continues it will result in us receiving an even greater share of scatter dollars going forward.
Meanwhile in sports the NFL continues to do extremely well for us.
And coming up soon is college basketball which in case you haven't noticed is still scheduled to be played.
And this weekend on our air we essentially have this year's college football championship when #1 LSU plays #2 Alabama in primetime.
So you don't have to wait for the BCS in January this year to find out who the best team in the country is.
So our long-term deal with the SEC is paying off now and will continue to do so until 2023.
This deal is looking better all the time as the SEC has clearly become the dominant conference in college football.
Beyond the network the other links in our content chain are becoming more and more lucrative every single quarter.
Syndication remains the next largest source of revenue for us with especially sharp growth on the international side.
Led by CSI and NCIS the 2 most popular shows in the world our international syndication business is producing north of $1 billion a year for us double what it was just 4 years ago.
And as you know you've read much about this one of the most exciting areas of growth is the increased demand of our content from online video distributors like Amazon Netflix Hulu Plus and others.
In less than 8 months we have secured deals that are worth hundreds of millions of dollars annually to us and are a key factor in the diversification of our revenue streams.
This phenomenon is being driven by consumer demand.
Viewers are clearly looking to watch part of their content online particularly younger viewers.
Going forward we feel very good about our ability to make significant money from this development year in and year out no matter which streaming service consumers choose.
In each case we're prudently delivering our programming to new viewers in a way that complements our traditional licensing businesses and realizes incremental value from our library by selling our content over and over again.
Within the last month we also signed a pair of long-term streaming deals for CW content with Netflix and Hulu.
These deals which we did with our partners at Warner Bros.
will dramatically change the economics of The CW as well as add to our studio bottom line.
Plus like all of our deals we continue to have the flexibility to sell our content elsewhere.
Two other key growth areas are retransmission consent and reverse compensation from affiliates.
Both revenue sources continue to grow at a steady clip and each of them is right on track to meet the financial targets we've laid out for you previously.
On the reverse comp side we signed a new deal with one of our largest affiliate groups during the quarter.
In this deal that comes into full effect next summer we took a previous arrangement in which we had been paying our partners and turned it into a deal which they will now be paying us the kind of compensation we've told you we can expect.
So from advertising to syndication to streaming to retrans and reverse comp every link of the content chain continues to strengthen and serves to diversify our revenue in a marketplace that rewards content like never before.
The increasing value of our premium content is also at the heart of our Cable Networks segment which where we continue to see very healthy revenue and profit growth.
Our 3 Cable Networks Showtime CBS Sports Network and Smithsonian all grew rates and subscribers during the quarter with Showtime at nearly 21 million subs up 11% year-over-year.
Last month we launched a brand new hit on Showtime with the premiere of Homeland.
This show is acclaimed by many as clearly one of the best new shows on television.
It had an extremely strong opening and has grown from there.
Meanwhile this year's premier of Dexter was its highest rated yet and continues to have more viewers than it did last year.
And remember just like at CBS great Showtime content feeds the pipeline to be sold in all sorts of new ways down the road as well.
At our Publishing division Simon &amp; Schuster continues to grow its profits as well.
We are increasingly benefiting from the sharp growth and improved business model of e-books.
Sale of e-books has more than doubled year-over-year and digital now represent 17% of Publishing's revenue.
Simon &amp; Schuster grew its overall revenue in the quarter as well and we had 58 new entries on The New York Times best seller including 9 #1s.
And as you no doubt have heard we recently began selling Walter Isaacson's exclusive biography of the extraordinary Steve Jobs.
Moving to our Local Broadcasting segment where we continue to have a story of strength and stability.
Just like in the second quarter or third quarter non-political revenues grew low single digits and are pacing to do the same in the fourth.
At our Television Stations we saw growth across most key advertising categories and domestic auto significantly was up 21% year-over-year.
CBS Radio also posted growth in domestic auto as well as retail and financial services.
Our TV stations continue to perform very well in terms of ratings too.
This past month during primetime WCBS-TV in New York was the most watched television station in the country and the majority of our stations were #1 in their markets.
And in radio our strategy to program more sports stations has proven to be very successful.
We now have sports formats in 9 of the top 11 markets and audience on those stations has grown nearly 75% in the past 3 years.
What's also exciting about our Local businesses is the way they are positioning themselves for the future.
We now have 25 local websites that reflect the combined resources of our TV and radio stations in each markets.
These sites such as cbsnewyork.com and cbsla.com et cetera are capitalizing on the way people are consuming local content online as opposed to in newspapers or Yellow Pages.
We have some of the most recognizable brands in the biggest markets.
And as this continues the opportunity is significant.
So we continue to love the Local business and particularly the properties we own.
However as the other businesses are in our company grow even faster our dependence on Local becomes less pronounced.
In the third quarter while overall revenues have grown we're very pleased that Local Broadcasting accounted for just 19% of our total revenue versus 24% just a few years ago.
This is another example how we have become a more versatile company.
Finally our Outdoor business is performing very solidly as well.
With pacing up domestically and abroad our business in the Americas is outperforming the competition in both revenue and OIBDA.
And internationally we are seeing the business strengthen as we pursue new contracts optimize our cost structure and continue digital expansion.
Across the company our business is operating right where we want it to be and just as we told you it would.
We are finishing '11 in a very strong position.
You have seen our numbers for the quarter and for the year-to-date where OIBDA is up 43%.
What's truly exciting though is that I believe the company is set up for a record-breaking 2012 and here's why.
The CBS Television Network has opened extremely well this fall.
Looking ahead the bulk of the network season takes place in '12 and we anticipate being in first place once again when the season concludes next year.
Retrans and reverse comp are in full swing with more new deals coming into play next year.
International demand for our content is growing every single year faster than ever.
Plus this year you saw the streaming marketplace begin to truly take hold and we've made many deals already.
We continue to talk to all these companies and many others that we haven't done deals with yet about finding ways to generate incremental dollars going forward.
As you see '12 is shaping up to be an even bigger year in terms of streaming.
Also as you know next year is shaping up to be a very contentious year in Washington.
If we're up at this point in 2011 without virtually any political advertising imagine what we can do with it in '12.
So clearly we're very excited where we are and we're very excited about all the ways that our recurring committed revenue will grow into 2012.
We feel very confident about the marketplaces in which we operate.
And as evidenced by the expansion of the share buyback program we've announced today and the doubling of our dividend last quarter we like where headed -- where we're for the rest of this year into '12 and beyond that as well.
With that I will turn it over to my friend and colleague Joe Ianniello.
Joe? Thanks Les.
Good afternoon everyone.
Next I'll give you some more detail on our results for the quarter and year-to-date then update you on Q4 trends and opportunities in 2012.
Let's start with the total company results for the quarter.
Les mentioned how we're steadily turning top line growth into higher and higher profits.
The numbers this quarter demonstrate the kind of exceptional flow-through we've been delivering quarter after quarter.
Despite significant political advertising from a year ago overall revenue of $3.4 billion was up 2% and advertising revenue was even with last year's quarter.
Content licensing and distribution revenue was up 5% led by our recent digital streaming deals and continued growth in international syndication.
Affiliate and subscription fees were up 7% benefiting from further growth in cable and retransmission consent fees.
OIBDA of $837 million was up 25% from the prior year driven by high-growth margin revenue and our continued focus on controlling costs.
Our overall OIBDA margin in the third quarter expanded 500 basis points to 25% which ties a record for us.
We're now benefiting from a larger and growing base of long-term committed revenue deals that have very high margin.
Operating income of $703 million was up 33%.
And as Les said diluted EPS came in at $0.50 per share up 43%.
We've not adjusted any reported items in this quarter or any quarter this year for that matter.
For comparison purposes 2010 amounts reflect the adjustments we made last year.
I also want to point out that our results today do not yet reflect the benefit of the recent announced CW deals.
On a year-to-date basis the story is very consistent.
Revenue was up 3% despite the difficult comps of last year's Super Bowl and political advertising as well as our new NCAA agreement.
As you may recall we now share in NCAA revenues with Time Warner.
But our profits are significantly greater and we have 13 years remaining on that deal.
At the same time year-to-date OIBDA was up 43%.
Operating income was up 59% and diluted EPS was up 109% to $1.36.
Let's turn to our operating segments.
Entertainment revenue for the quarter was $1.6 billion up 1% despite some timing of domestic syndication sales and one less NFL game in this quarter.
This speaks to our underlying strength with primetime network advertising up 4% in the quarter.
OIBDA for the Entertainment segment came in at $405 million up 46%.
The strength of the Entertainment segment's OIBDA was a combination of lower programming expenses and higher margin contributions coming from streaming deals and retrans fees.
In our Cable segment revenue for the quarter was $420 million up 14% primarily as a result of affiliate fee increases on continued subscriber growth and higher pricing as well as growth in content licensing fees from international syndication and streaming deals once again demonstrating the value of owning content.
Cable OIBDA of $203 million was up 19% to a very healthy 48% margin.
Publishing revenue of $220 million for the quarter was up 1% driven by strong performances from titles such as A Stolen Life by Jaycee Dugard and In My Time by Dick Cheney.
Publishing OIBDA grew 19% to $38 million in the quarter.
This represents a 17% margin one of the highest in Simon &amp; Schuster's history continuing the trend of increased sales of more profitable digital content.
Local Broadcasting revenue of $656 million was down 3% for the quarter without the benefit of political advertising we had last year.
Radio revenue was even and TV station revenue was down 6%.
But non-political revenue for this segment was up 2% for the quarter illustrating the continued underlying strength.
Both TV stations and radio stations individually were also up 2% on this basis as well and the growth in non-political advertising in the quarter was broad-based across many categories.
In fact 4 of the top 5 categories each showed growth with an average increase of 4% for these categories in the quarter.
The only top 5 category that did not grow was movies because of the timing of film release schedules compared to last year.
Automotive grew this quarter as domestic spending was up strong double digits and Japanese auto showed improvement from the second quarter.
On a year-to-date basis Local Broadcasting has grown its revenues despite the difficult political comp the absence of the Super Bowl and the disruptions with Japanese auto and that's truly amazing.
Local Broadcasting OIBDA of $184 million was down $11 million for the quarter due to the absence of the political advertising.
However year-to-date we've grown OIBDA 7%.
Again this includes political from last year and demonstrates the underlying strength and stability of the station's business model which also continues to benefit from our recent cost-containment efforts.
And finally Outdoor revenue for the quarter was up 4% to $477 million.
We did benefit a few points from exchange rates but the base business continues to grow just like our other local assets led by increases in U.S.
billboards and our South American business.
Pricing for our U.S.
billboard business was up 3% with a steady year-over-year occupancy rate.
We've been disciplined about not renewing low-margin contracts and we will continue that approach in the future.
Outdoor OIBDA of $80 million increased 4% over last year.
The FX benefit to revenue also increased expenses therefore negatively impacting our flow-through.
We also did incur a few nonrecurring items which also reduced the flow-through of top line growth.
As you all know we continue to incur costs associated with various legal claims.
We expect further margin expansion in the fourth quarter and beyond as higher-margin contracts take effect.
Turning to cash flow and our balance sheet.
Free cash flow came in at $29 million for the quarter which includes a $200 million contribution to our qualified pension plans as we discussed on our last call.
We will continue to opportunistically fund our pension plans so stay tuned for more on that in the future.
Year-to-date free cash flow was up 8% to $1.5 billion despite the absence of the Super Bowl from last year and the pension contributions this year.
During the quarter we spent $350 million on our share buyback program retiring 13.5 million shares.
For the first 9 months of 2011 we've utilized $850 million of our $1.5 billion share repurchase program and have retired over 35 million shares at an average price of about $24 per share.
Our cash on hand at the end of the third quarter was $947 million.
Now let me give you some observations about Q4.
We continue to see a stable marketplace.
And based on current pacing data we expect to see non-political TV stations revenue to be up low single digits with the CBS TV Stations doing even better than that Radio stations to be up low single digits as well and our Outdoor group to be up mid-single-digits.
As Les mentioned we are very excited about 2012 which is now less than 60 days away.
And we've positioned the company to have an extraordinary year.
Let me reiterate some of the opportunities.
Retrans is stepping up.
Reverse compensation is beginning to contribute.
SVOD deals are accelerating.
International demand for our content has never been stronger and political advertising is back again.
All this while we continue to manage our cost as well.
We're always looking at additional opportunities for incremental cost savings and next year will be no different.
We're confident we can continue to identify permanent efficiencies to further expand our profit margins.
We'll also continue to be diligent with capital allocation always focused on our balance sheet and returning capital to our shareholders highlighted by our increased share buyback program we announced today.
So in summary we're very pleased with the results we've been able to share with you this year on our earnings calls but we're especially looking forward to speaking with all of you on our 2012 earnings calls.
Thank you.
And with that Jay we can open the line up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Joe or Les you guys talked about all the deals you've done in the streaming online world.
It sounds like you think that revenue base grows next year.
Is that a fair characterization of your comments? Yes.
Ben this is Joe.
Just by the deals we've done signed today the revenue will grow next year year-over-year in terms of dollars.
Research Division</strong> Terrific.
And if I could just ask one follow-up.
If you look at the Entertainment segment expenses declined year-over-year $160-odd million and even $180 million sequentially.
I know Joe you mentioned your costs were down in the programming line.
Anything else you'd call out in the quarter that might be unusual? And I think you had talked in the past about programming growing kind of low singles for this season versus last year.
Is that still the right way to think about it? Yes I think longer term that's probably the right way to think about it.
I think again we're demonstrating we can control costs.
Sports programming and primetime programming are clearly down.
But clearly again we're not daunted by that magnitude so there is a little bit of timing.
But I think we've proven year-to-date we've been able to manage that line very well.
And the significant thing is because with our results by overspending it doesn't necessarily mean you'll get ratings.
And it's really good to be able to manage our costs and still do quality programming as well.
And I think that that improves our margins.
When you look at our ratings and you see that our programming costs are down I think that's a pretty amazing statistic.
Research Division</strong> And Les are you able to pick up any make good so far this year from let's just say NBC or anybody else who's weak so far this season? Well I don't know the particulars about what's happening.
But clearly as I said in my opening remarks we have the strongest place in terms of scatter.
And when you look across the landscape we are first in line when you look at the ratings across the board.
And some of the other places are struggling a bit and I would think they're in a far worse position than we are.
.
We'll go next to Jessica Reif-Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you guys seem pretty confident about 2012 if you could give us an early peek into what you're seeing on the advertising side? Have advertisers done anything regarding their options yet? Jess the -- looking at the first quarter there it is business as usual.
Nobody -- very few people are canceling us because they know they'll have to pay more.
So we're -- obviously with the share buyback we're very confident of how the year is going to go in advertising for the rest of the season.
Right.
So the upfront is going to be 3 quarters that we know what that pricing is and political for the local segment so we've got very nice tailwinds helping 2012.
Research Division</strong> And Les you just mentioned the buyback that you felt confident enough to announce the buyback.
I'm just curious about the timing.
You still have $650 million left on the existing buyback.
What prompted a renewed -- or what prompted a new buyback? Jess it's Joe.
Look the visibility into the non-advertising cash flows are so strong.
As you said there's only $650 million left and that clearly just will run out by Q2 of next year.
So we just look at this and just saying is we're so confident in our cash flows we're going to continue to return capital to shareholders and we like our stock at these levels a whole lot.
Research Division</strong> Just one thing on that confidence.
You said publicly in the past that retrans and reverse comp will be at least $250 million.
And given that you signed more deals can you give us any kind of update on expectations for that line? You know what we're not going to go much beyond that.
We are confident we're going to hit the $250 million and it will probably be more than that.
We'll go next to Michael Nathanson with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I have just 3 quick housekeeping ones.
In the first paragraph you talked about the challenging of -- challenge by the timing of syndication sales.
Are you referring to timing of last year's syndication or do you have more syndication to come in the fourth quarter -- pushing into the fourth quarter? Yes it's when we make the shows available.
So as the next season Michael airs so there's more to come later.
So we made more episodes available in Q3 of 2010 than Q3 of 2011.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
There wasn't anything about a sale push into the fourth quarter that's going to come of...
No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the comment about the programming mix driving savings can you give us a sense taking out the timing benefits? In this quarter what do you think your programming savings were like-for-like in Q3? Well let me answer -- it's Joe Michael.
Let me answer the question this way.
I think you look at the Entertainment segment margin on a year-to-date basis you see it's 20% which is an 800 basis point improvement year-over-year.
We clearly think that's sustainable.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And third would be you mentioned that primetime was up 4% in the third quarter.
I wonder if you think do you sequentially improve with the new upfront base in Q4 from the 4% level in third quarter? Yes judging from the fact obviously we all know how strong the upfront was.
And frankly the scatter is above that.
So we anticipate that it will grow significantly from there.
We'll go next to Michael Morris with Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First on Showtime the growth there continues to be very strong and ahead of HBO which I would consider your closest peer.
You seem to still be growing your subscriber base.
I'm just trying to think of when you look at a competitor like HBO did they sort of represent what you see as the cap in the traditional model for that type of network? Or do you think that there's demand or you could have a structure that would allow you to grow beyond that? And then I have a follow-up.
You know what that's a very good question.
We're currently over 21 million subs and they're over 28.
We are Avis but I think clearly we are growing.
Our programming mix we think our original programming is stronger than it was even a couple of years ago.
And there's a reason for that growth.
I think subscribers want Showtime.
More people want Showtime.
Most households that have Showtime also have HBO.
So the fact that we're growing can we go beyond 28 million? One day I hope so.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
Appreciate it.
And one other thing Les.
You mentioned that I thought was interesting your incremental was that when you -- the new reverse compensation deal that you struck not only will start to provide revenue starting in mid-2012 but also take some costs out.
I assume take costs out of the Entertainment segment.
I'm trying to gauge how big that is.
Does that extend to your other affiliated stations that you may also have...
You know Michael there were only a few station groups left that we will pay in compensation to.
These last couple of deals will wipe that out entirely.
By the middle of '12 we will not be paying out anybody and it all comes in.
So this will be a cost savings as well as a total reversal.
As we said instead of paying we're getting paid.
So that's a good way to be.
We'll go next to Laura Martin with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Let's talk about Hulu.
So Les you guys just signed a really wide-ranging deal for The CW.
Could you talk about the similarities and differences as you think about the CBS Network and CW and specifically on Hulu Prime? Should we expect the deal announced near term on Hulu Prime and CBS? And then boy margins wow Joe cost control hitting record margins.
You told us a year ago you're going to do this and I think you delivered it faster.
Can you tell us about margins next year? Because a lot of what you just went over looks like it's got 70% or 80% margin.
So as a company where do you think margins can go in 2012 and 2013? Thanks Laura.
I'll do the Hulu question and then Joe can talk about margins.
Yes obviously CBS has been the lone holdout with Hulu and Hulu Plus.
The CW is a different animal.
It appeals to a much younger demographic.
In addition frankly a lot more of the viewers of CW are watching online.
So the majority of this deal deals with a -- it will go on Hulu Plus at first.
And then 8 days later it will go on Hulu.
The significance of this deal is that we did get paid a chunk of money.
There is no advertising split on this which is something that we absolutely refuse to do.
Were we considerably more liberal with making a deal with Hulu for CW? Absolutely.
But as I said before The CW went from being a money loser for CBS to a profitable venture for us overall.
So these 2 deals made a lot of sense for us.
And Laura on the margin I think -- again I think you're right.
I mean we said this was coming.
It's clear why it's coming.
Retrans reverse compensation these streaming deals these are very high-margin deals.
So I think again as we  continue we have a way to go on them.
Advertising also very high margins.
So I think the combination of managing your costs and having these incremental revenue streams we're not just saying the words you're seeing the results in our numbers.
We'll go next to Doug Mitchelson with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a few quick questions a couple for Joe.
Have you shifted amortization accounting for production of new TV shows now that the online window has been firmly established for you so you expense less upfront as you allocate costs against that online window? No -- let's talk about The CW deal that we just announced.
For the CBS studio shows we've not adjusted the amortization for that.
We -- obviously we will look at the ultimate accounting in the fourth quarter for that.
Obviously the bigger benefit Doug is when you make those shows available to the syndicator is when you recognize the revenue.
But clearly as we get more and more data points and as the value of these properties increase that will get reflected in our amortization.
Research Division</strong> So that onetime reset is probably more of a 2012 event than a 2011 event right? I think that's fair.
Research Division</strong> And then can you give us any sense of how Oprah might have influenced revenue and margin comparisons in Entertainment year-over-year? Yes look we distributed Oprah as you know.
And during the last years the amount of our distribution fee went down significantly so I won't say it's terrific to lose Oprah.
But a couple of positive things happened for the CBS Corporation.
Number one Judge Judy became the #1 show in syndication.
Dr.
Phil became the #1 talk show in syndication 2 shows that we own.
Number three obviously Oprah had been on the ABC television stations by and large.
So as a result that time period where we became much stronger helped our station group a great deal.
So as I said no knock on Oprah.
Oprah was an institution and we were very happy to distribute her.
But because of these factors I think we are going to be in very good shape as a result.
We'll go next to John Janedis with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Guys just going back to streaming.
I think for the most part the deals you've written have been guaranteed or upfront payment.
So I'm wondering looking ahead I think the newer players that are going to be out there are going to have a harder time aggregating to subscribers.
So can you talk about your appetite for deals that are success-based or non-guaranteed? We -- frankly we don't believe in them.
We're not going to go out and we've sort of -- we've even been against joining Apple TV which was an advertiser split.
And these deals are significant in that we are getting guaranteed cash payment.
We like operating on that basis.
And as you said we've been able to do deals worth hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars on that basis.
That is our position right now.
Will we ever make a statement that that never could happen? I wouldn't right now because we don't know how the world evolves but I like the way we played our hand and getting this guaranteed revenue stream is a good way to go.
We'll go next to David Miller with Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Les correct me if I'm wrong you guys actually have 4 separate television libraries in a sense correct? You've got CBS Paramount King World and Aaron Spelling.
How penetrated would you say you are within each of those 4 libraries with regard to over the top deals? What inning are we in right now with regard to further exploitation of that content? Yes we do have those 4 libraries.
We actually have a couple of others.
We have Rysher is in there as well and a couple of other smaller independent companies that go way back.
Desilu we have all theirs going considerably back.
I would venture to say in terms of library -- and right now the good news is we don't distinguish.
I couldn't tell you frankly what was a Paramount show or a CBS show.
We're probably in the third inning.
If that -- well between the second and third inning and we got Albert Pujols coming to bat.
So we're feeling very good about what the future is and there's a lot more room to grow.
Obviously these initial deals did include a lot of the primo titles.
But there's still plenty more and these deals are short term.
And there are other people going into the marketplace that's why this content is forever.
We'll go next to David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Almost as a follow-up to that question Les you pointed you have 20 of the top 30 shows right now.
And one of the things you've taught us really well is the value of these shows is far greater often than in the ancillary kind of secondary markets.
And so the question is if you look at that mix of shows today that you're having such success with the only pipeline for syndication that's announced Rules of Engagement NCIS: L.A.
Hawaii Five-0.
What are the next big shows to kind of come out into syndication given the success you've had so far? And how -- can you talk about order of magnitude of contribution over the next couple of years? Yes.
I mean obviously Hawaii Five-0 and NCIS: L.A.
were the last 2 big deals that we announced for domestic syndication.
We still have Blue Bloods.
We still have The Good Wife.
This year we have a new show called Unforgettable which is substantial.
And we have a couple of mid-season shows that are coming on one starring Rob Schneider and another drama from the De Niro company that is coming on mid-season that we own.
So the pipeline will continue.
Our only problem looking down the road is our schedule is so strong I got to find places to find new shows that we own but we will find them.
In addition there will be Showtime programming.
That's produced internally by Showtime and by CBS.
So we have a lot of different avenues to produce these new programs and we even have a couple of shows on other cable networks.
So the pipeline will continue.
We'll go next to Michael Meltz with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you just clarify and perhaps quantify where is scatter actually pacing for Q4 please at the network? It's mid-teens right now.
Our last question comes from Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have just a couple.
Joe you said local was up 2% x political.
So focusing on TV does this number include retrans or is it a core advertising number? It actually doesn't swing the percentage Marci.
Either way it's up the same 2% with or without retrans.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in Outdoor can you just...
Marci I want to point out that the way we record our retrans it's split.
Other TV stations record 100% of it.
As you know we record 50% in the Entertainment segment and 50% in Local Broadcasting.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
And then in Outdoor what was the foreign exchange impact in the third quarter? Almost 3 points.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last one there's been a lot of M&amp;A in the broadcast base.
So any thoughts about revisiting a sale of Radio assets or even at some point TV assets? Highly doubtful highly doubtful.
We like the way they're performing.
And if somebody came along and made us a phenomenal offer for some radio stations we would always look at it.
But we're pretty pleased with what we have right now.
Great.
Thanks Marci and thanks everyone for joining us this afternoon.
Have a great evening.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the CBS Corporation Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Teleconference.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'll turn the call over to the Executive Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings conference call.
Joining me for today's conference are Sumner Redstone our Executive Chairman; Leslie Moonves President and CEO; and Joe Ianniello Executive Vice President and CFO.
Sumner will have opening remarks and we'll turn over the call to Les and Joe who will discuss the strategic and financial results.
We will then open the call up to questions.
Please note that during today's conference call the fourth quarter and full year 2011 financial results and prior year comparisons with the exception of revenue will be discussed on an adjusted basis unless otherwise specified.
Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information related to this call can be found on our earnings release or on our website.
In addition statements on this conference call relating to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed in CBS Corporation's news releases and Securities filings.
A webcast of this call and the earnings release related to today's presentation can be found on the Investors section of our website at cbscorporation.com.
And with that it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Sumner.
Thank you Adam.
Good afternoon everyone.
I thank all of you for being with us today.
I am more than pleased that CBS had such a tremendous year once again in 2011.
And as you will all hear momentum continues to build and build.
Our world-class content continues to be the cornerstone of our success.
We have the #1 television network.
We have the top TV and radio stations in the big market.
We have Showtime and all its critically acclaimed programs.
We have Simon &amp; Schuster and all its best-sellers.
We have Outdoor in all the right places.
Every one of these assets is becoming more and more valuable than ever in new digital area.
I am confident we have the right strategy in place to help us grow this company year after year after year in the future.
And the reason for that is we have a first-class management team that knows how to make such things happen.
And that starts at the top with none other than my very good friend and colleague Les Moonves.
But let me tell you as you know I have often called Les a genius.
Les' unparalleled success in operating CBS is indeed the work of a genius.
And now I will formally turn this over to my friend my colleague and the man I call a genius and he is Les Moonves.
Thank you Sumner very much for that overly kind introduction.
Good afternoon everybody and thank you for once again joining us.
The fourth quarter numbers we're reporting today capped off a terrific and much better-than-expected 2011 for the CBS Corporation.
Quarterly EPS came in at $0.57 up 24% and we posted full year EPS of $1.94.
That was a record for our company and up 75% over 2010.
Quarterly OIBDA was also very strong up 9%.
And for the year OIBDA was up $753 million to $3.1 billion up 32%.
We did this in a year when the overall economy faced lots of uncertainty.
And as you know the S&amp;P was flat.
It is very encouraging that we were able to be so successful in this kind of environment.
Clearly our ongoing strategy of de-risking and diversifying our businesses is paying off and it's only getting better.
As we sit here today nearly 7 weeks into the new year I'm truly excited about what we're seeing.
The first quarter alone is looking to be extremely strong leading to an extraordinary '12.
For a number of reasons I'm confident this will be an even better year than the last and one in which we are poised to break records in financial metrics across-the-board.
Here's why: First the ways we get paid for our content continue to grow and become more profitable improving the quality of our earnings.
From broadcast to streaming from retrans to reverse comp from international to local we have an increasingly number of diverse revenue sources that expand margins and drive earnings.
Next in a content-driven industry our program is leading the pack better than ever.
This is led by the CBS Television Network which just completed the first half of its broadcast seasons in one of the best competitive positions in the history of television.
At the halfway mark we were #1 network in every key measurable demographic.
The distance between CBS and our closest competitor was the biggest it's been in 24 years and we continue to reload.
And third as you've heard from our peers we are seeing clear signs that the economy is improving.
We're seeing this on a national level where scatter pricing is up mid-teens over upfront and we're seeing it in our local businesses where pacing is up without even counting political and where auto advertising the #1 category in local is up an impressive high single digits.
So as you can imagine we're very pleased with the state of our company and even more pleased with what we see ahead.
Today I'm going to walk you through some of our financial and operational highlights for the fourth quarter and full year.
And then I'm going to spend a little time highlighting why our company is in fundamentally better place than we were just a few short years ago.
Then I'll turn it over to Joe for his remarks and we'll take your questions.
Let's start with the financials where as I said we posted very strong fourth quarter EPS of $0.57 up 24% and where we posted record full year EPS of $1.94 up 75%.
Fourth quarter OIBDA came in at $837 million up 9%.
And during the quarter our margin expanded 2 percentage points to 22%.
As I also mentioned full year OIBDA was $3.1 billion up 32%.
And for the year new more profitable content deals helped our margins grow 5 percentage points to 22%.
These new content deals that are driving our margins are long term meaning we will see these kinds of benefits for years to come.
Revenue grew for the year and was down a bit for the quarter due to our significant CSI syndication sale a year ago as well as last year's large political advertising sale in the fourth quarter.
Without these 2 non-comparable items revenue would also have been up for the quarter.
Of course our businesses continue to throw off a lot of cash as well even making a voluntary pension contribution of $410 million.
2011 free cash flow was up from 2010 reaching $1.5 billion.
Meanwhile our focus remains on using our cash to return value to our shareholders.
During the year we repurchased more than $1 billion of stock and we doubled our dividend.
We will continue buying back stock as part of our ongoing $3 billion program repurchasing at least $1 billion per year.
And as we take advantage of all the opportunities across our businesses using our healthy free cash to return value to shareholders will continue to be the #1 priority for our company.
Let's take a quick look at each of those businesses now starting with Entertainment.
As I mentioned the CBS Television Network had a phenomenal first half of the season.
We had 14 of the top 20 programs the most since people meter measurements began in 1987.
We have the top 5 scripted series the top 8 dramas and 6 of the 10 -- 6 of the 7 top comedies.
We also have the #1 scripted series with NCIS the #1 comedy with Two and a Half Men and the #1 new program with Person of Interest.
In addition the Big Bang Theory is now often beating a previously invincible talent show that happens to air on another network.
Plus we continue to have success across all demographics.
Season-to-date through this week we are up year-over-year in every single key demographic.
Once again as we look ahead to next season we have very few holes to fill.
The development process is well underway and our team is doing another terrific job.
The bar will be very very high to get on our schedule.
Next fall we anticipate presenting a lineup that will be even stronger than the one that is dominant right now.
We are also keeping our expenses in check because we have few requirements for new programming.
We've also had tremendous success with ratings over at CBS Sports led during the quarter by the NFL.
In each of the 3 weeks we recently broadcast NFL playoff games we brought in ratings we haven't seen in decades.
As you know we've extended our agreement with the NFL for another 9 years past the 2 that are remaining.
The NFL has been a terrific partner and this new deal will be profitable from day 1.
With the new deal we will add 7 high-quality NFC games to our schedule in addition to our AFC package.
And remember based on these last few years the #1 show on television history will be broadcast next February when we air Super Bowl XLVII on CBS where we're anticipating a potential $4 million a spot.
Our coverage of SEC football has also been very strong.
We have the highest-rated college football package of any network this season.
And during the quarter our prime time coverage of the regular season LSU-Alabama matchup was the most watched college football game on any network since 2006.
In the next couple of months we're looking forward to broadcasting the recently renegotiated and also profitable Men's NCAA Basketball Tournament immediately followed of course by The Masters.
Speaking of big-ticket television the Grammys on Sunday night brought in 39.9 million viewers the most since 1984 and second largest Grammys audience ever.
This show's ratings have been coming in at significantly higher levels these past few years and as they have ad rates have spiked dramatically.
Going forward the Grammys are another tent-pole event that we have also locked up on good terms for the next decade.
The growing interest in events like these along with the steady success of our regular network programming are the key drivers that allow us to keep growing our retrans and reverse compensation revenue.
Just last month we reached a new agreement with DISH Network for CBS and Showtime.
We are continually getting paid increasingly -- increasing value for our programming from both distributors and our affiliates.
Once again just a few short years ago retrans revenue was virtually nonexistent and we were paying our affiliates to carry our programs.
Now we are growing retrans at a very fast clip and our affiliates are paying us as well.
Both of these developments are progressing faster than even we anticipated in 2012.
And we know that growth in retrans and reverse comp will accelerate significantly from here and in the coming years represent multiples of what we're realizing today.
Plus for the first time international fees for our programming broke the $1 billion mark in 2011.
Just like in retrans and reverse comp this is a continuing opportunity that's doing very well for us and has lots of room to grow.
Our very innovative CBS Interactive division is performing extremely well too.
Not only is a stand-alone operation but also in terms of working hand-in-hand with our traditional businesses in news sports music and entertainment.
For example in addition to our historic ratings for the Grammys on Sunday night CBS Interactive's GRAMMY Live iPad reached #1 on the iTunes chart and social media mentions surrounding the event went from less than 1 million a year to 13 million this year.
It is clear that this kind of second screen interest is achieved by broadcast television working hand-in-hand with Interactive better than anywhere else.
And going forward one of our primary goals will be to continue to exploit that opportunity.
And finally our Entertainment segment also includes CBS Films which 1 1/2 weeks ago had a terrific opening with The Woman in Black.
This film is already profitable and follows precisely the kind of model in terms of limited budget and low risk that we plan to continue as we nurture this small business.
Moving to our Cable Networks segments.
We ended the year with healthy increases in Showtime subscribers.
This is the eighth consecutive year that we grew subscription at Showtime which have now gone over the 21 million mark.
Quality programming continues to drive this success.
Homeland won 2 Golden Globe awards including the best drama show on television and is considered right now by many to be the hottest show on television.
Dexter just finished its sixth season with its best ratings ever.
Last month's premiere of the second season of Shameless was up 61% over last year.
And new shows House of Lies and Inside Comedy have opened strongly as well.
In Publishing Simon &amp; Schuster had the best-selling book of the quarter in Walter Isaacson's biography of Steve Jobs.
We also had another massive best seller in Stephen King's 11/22/63.
And King and Vince Flynn were recently our first 2 authors to go over the 1 million mark in terms of e-book sales.
Over at Local Broadcasting we expect political advertising to be extremely robust.
It is clear this is not going to be a very pleasant campaign.
So while it may not be very much fun for the politician it should be very good for us at CBS.
Plus even without political advertising local is pacing ahead of a year ago.
In all sorts of categories we're seeing a healthier advertising market all the time particularly in automotive as I mentioned.
At our TV stations our ratings remain very strong.
In prime time we have the country's most watched TV station in WCBS channel 2 New York.
And we continue to have success with our radio programming as well.
We've been updating you on the remarkable growth of our sports format station and we're expanding our news footprint too.
We recently launched an all-new station in Washington D.C.
and it's quickly performed very well for us.
The station now joins our roster of #1 news stations in New York L.A.
Chicago San Francisco Philadelphia Boston and Detroit.
At the same time we continue to put a great emphasis on our local interactive content.
Users of our CBS local media sites increased 43% last year giving us the fastest growth in our entire peer group.
Finally our Outdoor business performed very well for the year and for the quarter.
We have restructured many contracts and made them more profitable which will benefit us for years to come.
And we were very pleased with the settlement resolution that we reached with the London Underground.
Right now we're seeing particular strength at our American operations.
But with the Olympics in London this year we expect to see much better results internationally as well.
Here and abroad we also continue to roll out high marginal digital signage where we'll get the biggest return for our investment.
So as you can see our operating segments are performing very well across-the-board.
What I want to do now is tell you a few things about how we look at our business overall.
Three years ago this company was receiving virtually $0 from retrans $0 from our affiliates and $0 from streaming.
And we were getting about 40% of what we are today in international sales of our programming.
At the time we said that in addition to growing our base business through blocking and tackling these 4 areas were all key opportunities to grow non-advertising revenue which would de-risk and diversify our businesses.
Many people did not agree but we were confident we would get it done.
Today all of these developments are real and they're meaningful.
That's why our OIBDA was up $753 million last year.
I'm confident the numbers from these areas retrans reverse comps streaming and international will grow every single year and that's why 2012 and many years to come are positioned to be even better.
Clearly the world has changed and it's going to continue changing in our favor.
We have constant revenue streams that are just getting started to show in our results and they will be there in good times and bad.
We told you about this retrans reverse comps streaming international at our Investor Day just less than one year ago.
And now from everything we see we're on pace to do even better than the impressive numbers we shared with you that day.
Plus our recent long-term deals with the NCAA the NFL the SEC the Grammys and others will also boost our profits for many years to come.
Add to this the prospects of an improving economy including the impressive pacing figures we're seeing in the first quarter and our results should only get better.
So yes we are very happy with our performance in 2011 but we're now entirely focused on surpassing those numbers in 2012 and taking advantage of every possibility to grow CBS for many years to come.
With that I will turn it over to my friend and colleague Joe Ianniello.
Thanks Les.
Good afternoon everyone.
Today I'll give you some more detail on the results for the quarter and for the year then I'm going to update you on what we're seeing in 2012.
But first let's start with 2011.
We had a great year in 2011.
We achieved our strong result despite some difficult comps and economic uncertainties.
As you've seen and heard the actions we've taken to implement our strategy of producing great content and receiving our fair share of recurring revenue is having a clear impact on our results.
The best part is that we're still in the early innings of this multiyear growth story.
Turning to the fourth quarter.
OIBDA of $837 million rose 9% despite a 3% decline in revenue which is attributable to the second cycle syndication sale of CSI and strong political advertising during 2010.
These 2 items combined contributed more than 100% of the revenue decline.
Affiliate and subscription fees were up 8% for the quarter showing the steady growth in cable and retransmission consent fees.
Our OIBDA margin of 22% expanded 200 basis points.
This increase was driven by the growth in high-margin revenue including streaming deals higher international syndication revenue and retrans fees as well as our efforts to control costs.
Operating income of $701 million was up 11% for the quarter.
Also during the quarter we took restructuring actions that resulted in a $46 million charge which reduces our costs on a sustainable basis by more efficiently utilizing real estate that we own.
We will realize the benefits of these actions in 2012 and beyond.
Now let's quickly go through the full year results.
For 2011 revenue was up 1% to $14.2 billion.
This is despite lower revenue from our new profitable NCAA arrangement that started in March 2011 and the absence of the 2010 Super Bowl on CBS.
These 2 items alone affected our total revenue growth by 3 percentage points.
Content licensing and distribution revenue was up 6%.
And affiliate and subscription fees were up 9%.
These 2 increases speak to the improving stability in our business model which is driven by the growing number of committed revenue streams that serve to de-risk our business.
For the year OIBDA of $3.1 billion was up 32%.
And as Les said that's $753 million higher than 2010.
And our margin grew 500 basis points to 22%.
Operating income for the year was up 43% to $2.6 billion and Les already mentioned our record EPS for the year.
Now let's turn to our operating segments.
Q4 Entertainment revenue of $2 billion was down 1% again due to the CSI syndication sale in 2010.
For the full year revenue was up 1% to $7.5 billion driven by our new digital streaming agreements growth in underlying advertising revenue at the network and higher retrans fees.
During the quarter OIBDA for the Entertainment segment was up 28% to $318 million.
And for the year OIBDA was up 60% to $1.4 billion due to the combination of revenue drivers I just discussed as well as lower programming costs.
In our cable segment revenue for the quarter was $395 million up 7%.
And for the year it was $1.6 billion up 10%.
Our Cable Networks continue to see healthy increases in rates and subscribers.
And we're getting more revenue from licensing our Showtime original series internationally and on new platforms.
Cable OIBDA of $175 million was up 4% for the quarter with a margin of 44%.
These results were affected by the timing of promotional expenses related to the launch of 2 new shows Homeland and House of Lies.
For the full year 2011 OIBDA of $707 million was up 24% also posting a solid margin of 44%.
That's up from 39% in 2010.
Publishing revenue was $229 million for the quarter and $787 million for the year.
Both were down 1% as we continued the shift to more profitable e-books which sell at lower price points but also with significantly lower costs.
Digital revenue now represents approximately 17% of our overall Publishing revenue for the year.
Publishing OIBDA grew 40% to $28 million for the quarter and grew 28% to $92 million for the year again reflecting the benefit of our transition to digital and lower bad debt expense.
Strong OIBDA growth and operational efficiencies led to margins of 12% for both the quarter and the year.
Local Broadcasting revenue and OIBDA both for the quarter and the year were affected by the absence of significant political advertising.
In addition the NBA lockout affected our fourth quarter revenues which were down 12% and not having a Super Bowl also affected our annual results which were down 3%.
Underlying nonpolitical revenues at TV stations grew 1% in the quarter.
We also continue to see growth across a broad base of advertising categories at this segment with automotive financial and other professional services growing the fastest.
Local Broadcasting OIBDA was down $56 million for the quarter to $266 million and down only $16 million for the year to $849 million.
We expanded our Local Broadcasting OIBDA margin in 2011 by 100 basis points to 32%.
This is the first time we grew our margin in a nonpolitical year in well over a decade.
This was achieved through our continued cost containment measures and by increasing retrans fees of which only about half are recorded at this segment.
And finally Outdoor revenue for the quarter was up 1% to $514 million.
And for the year it was up 4% to $1.9 billion.
We posted gains despite the softness in the European economy as well as the non-renewal of some transit contracts.
The base business continues to grow with U.S.
billboards leading the way.
In Q4 pricing for our U.S.
billboard business was up 2% on the same high occupancy levels.
For the quarter Outdoor EBITDA was up 30% to $131 million.
And for the year it was up 20% to $346 million again helped by our more profitable contracts and the settlement of the London Underground legal matter.
Turning to cash flow in our balance sheet.
We had a use of cash of $44 million in the quarter due to a $200 million voluntary pension contribution.
For the year free cash flow came in at $1.5 billion up 2% despite the absence of the Super Bowl and a more than $200 million increase to our discretionary pension funding.
During the quarter we spent $170 million on our share buyback program retiring 7 million shares reaching our target of $1 billion of shares repurchased in 2011.
As a result for the year we bought back a little over 42 million shares at an average price of $24 per share.
Our cash on hand at the end of 2011 was $660 million.
Now let me tell you what we're seeing in 2012.
As Les said the momentum is building towards a record year.
Scatter pricing at the network is up mid-teens on increased demand.
In Local Broadcasting we're seeing an acceleration from Q4 trends.
Our non-political revenues are currently pacing to be up low single digits in Q1.
And of course political will build throughout the year significantly benefiting our second half of the year especially Q4.
In addition the automotive category is a great story.
Domestic spending continues to be strong and we're seeing a sizable rebound in Japanese spending as well.
And in Outdoor the first quarter is pacing to be up mid-single digits.
So the marketplace is steadily improving making us optimistic about 2012 and our future.
Plus there are a few other factors that I'd like to point out that will also drive EPS going forward.
First we expect our CapEx spending to remain at current levels for the foreseeable future.
However when you look at our income statement depreciation expense is still significantly higher than our capital needs.
Over time our depreciation expense will trend down in line with our CapEx levels giving us more operating leverage on the P&amp;L.
In addition all of our debt is fixed rate and most of it was issued years ago at much higher interest rates.
As we refinance our debt and bring down interest cost to current market rates you will continue to see a notable benefit to the interest expense line.
And finally we will continue with our remaining $2 billion share repurchase program to meaningfully reduce shares outstanding.
All of these factors will help strengthen our bottom line.
So in summary as you've heard today we continue to make good on our commitment to produce high-quality programming grow our non-advertising revenue streams and maximize the monetization of our content through new platforms.
Plus we are staying focused on controlling our costs.
And as the general economy improves we stand to benefit even more.
So we're very excited about what the future holds and we look forward to speaking with you on our next earnings call.
With that Jay can we open the line up for questions? [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions both about the Entertainment segment.
Maybe starting on the cost side Joe.
If you look at the quarter and the year expenses were down I think 5% to 7%.
I know there's a lot of moving pieces in there particularly around the studio and syndication.
But I don't know if there's a way to isolate out the noise and help us think about going forward what you think the expense trends are maybe particularly for the network and your schedule.
I think everyone understands qualitatively the schedule's in a great place but how does that translate on the cost line as you look into '12? And then related to that Les I think everyone has seen Q4 advertising trends across the sector.
Scatter ones have been pretty light.
You guys have a lot of ratings strength and particularly compared to some of your competitors who might have some make-goods.
Are you able to benefit from that either in Q4 -- or were you able to in Q4 or do you think you can start to benefit from that in Q1 if volumes come back? Are you seeing them come back? Can you sort of talk about that strategy in the marketplace on the ad sell side.
Yes I'll -- let me go first.
Number one in terms of pacing we have kept our scatter pricing up.
But obviously because of our ratings strength we are commanding the bulk of the scatter market.
There were some decisions on our part to push some of the scatters because we weren't getting the pricing that -- we weren't getting the demand at that pricing to push some of it into the first quarter.
So once again we're in a very very strong position and I think we're going to benefit it -- for it more in Q1 than we did in Q4.
And Ben this is Joe.
On the cost side yes clearly again as total company you can see operating costs down 7% for the quarter and for the full year.
So as we look forward we -- as we said we're going to continue to obviously drive the top line but we think we can control the costs particularly in the Entertainment segment kind of low single digits.
Yes.
And let me expand on that a little bit.
We’re only going to be doing 16 pilots this year.
We've put on 5 new shows last season at the beginning of the year.
We're probably going to have less than that now.
Some of our competitors are doing over 30 pilots.
So in certain instances I would state that our development expenses are less by -- than some of our competitors by over $100 million.
The ability to promote within our schedule -- I'm confident we're going be exceedingly strong next year and be able to keep our costs down and the trend continues.
Research Division</strong> And maybe if I could just squeeze a follow-up on the retrans side.
Les you talked about I think at least $250 million in 2012.
I don't believe that includes reverse comp but correct me if I'm wrong.
Now that you've got this DISH deal done and you've probably got some other reverse comp deals finished any update to that number for 2012? All I can say is the $250 million number is low.
You're right it is a retrans number.
It does not include reverse comp.
More and more the reverse comp deals are going to come up this year.
So it is low but we're not going to quantify exactly how low at this point.
But it is a low number.
We'll go next to Jessica Reif-Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Jessica it's Joe.
Look we think we -- usually 12 to 18 months we expect to get that return on our money.
So it's $46 million.
The charge is $46 million.
So kind of 12 to 18 months as a general rule of thumb.
You know what? They're talking about the number of $2 billion.
That's the number I've seen thrown around.
And generally speaking we get 9% to 10%.
That's generally the ballpark.
So that's what we're looking at.
Whether that number goes up or down the $2 billion I don't know.
But what I'm especially pleased about is not only we taking a large share from our TV stations but radio is now becoming a bigger player in that area as well.
So we're looking forward to a lot of nastiness on both sides.
Well the good news is obviously we already have deals with Netflix and Amazon.
At the CW we also added to that Hulu Plus which we support Hulu Plus not Hulu without the Plus which is an SVOD.
And there's a possibility that could happen there.
And there are a lot of conversations due -- you know what? It's hard to predict where -- whether there'll be a major deal but we're talking to an awful lot of people.
I also want to remind you and everybody else as soon as we pull a show from our schedule that automatically goes into one of those deals.
So we expect our numbers of our preexisting deals to go up.
In addition as you mentioned there's a lot more international players in this getting involved and so we're making more deals internationally as well.
And Jessica it's Joe.
I'd just add that just from the deals we've signed today we're going to be receiving more revenue in 2012 than 2011.
Right.
No I think -- Jessica it's Joe.
Look we look at that as a long-term strategy so we don't really manage it day-to-day.
It's just we said we're going to target $1 billion.
We hit the $1 billion.
We have $2 billion remaining which right now where our stock is it's 10% of our market cap.
So we're focused and committed to returning capital.
And if you just look at our free cash flow for 2011 of $1.5 billion between the buyback and the dividend we've returned over 80% of our cash to our shareholders.
So that remains our primary focus.
We'll go next to Michael Morris of Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on the television studio the production side.
It's definitely a great asset that you have and arguably still has a lot of runway ahead of it.
So I guess my questions are a couple.
Number one when you look at the capacity to produce new content where do you think you are with respect to your current production versus what -- where you could be? And if you think about what the opportunity is there do -- how are you thinking about whether or not you need to buy another outlet to push the content through relative to what you currently have? And then also with the -- some of these digital players now putting new original content or looking to launch new original shows do you see yourself as potentially being a player in that space? Or is there more to think about with respect to that being another place that you could sell content? Yes Michael I'll put my answer into 3 different areas.
Once again having the studio is an extraordinary benefit to us when you -- we're able to produce a property like an NCIS.
And as we look down the road we have going into syndication which we haven't accounted for yet which will happen in '12 and '13 NCIS: L.A.
Hawaii Five-O Blue Bloods and The Good Wife.
That's going be how many episodes Joe that go into syndication? There'll be over 300 episodes we have in the can by 2013.
By 2013.
That will be going into syndication and that will return to our studios since we own 100% of those shows.
We are approximately producing around 20 shows most for CBS and the CW.
We're also doing a show for TNT.
Right now we have a pilot for USA.
We still have more capacity.
And when you look at the Netflixes of the world and the Amazons of the world doing new production we welcome that.
We are talking to Netflix about a potential deal to produce a show for them.
Once again we do not look at them.
Until they are doing 22 hours a week of premium content we don't look at them as a competitor but rather another place to put our content whether it's original or buying our libraries as they have.
So the good news is the production company is very strong and there's a lot more room to do more.
LLC Research Division</strong> So when you look at -- and we've discussed this in the past but you look at potentially expanding your portfolio if you will I guess specifically buying cable networks beyond what you have with Showtime is that a possibility? Or you think that given all these different places that currently exist that you could sell into it's really not something that you need to consider? We don't -- with the valuation right now what these cable networks are and we're getting paid so much for our content through all these various platforms we do not find any need to go out and purchase one of them.
When you see that in NCIS each one of them is going to make north of $1 billion profit each one of those shows that's a very good business for us to be in and it's a better business than buying a cable network.
We'll go next to Laura Martin with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions one on international and one on TV Everywhere.
On international we have dried [ph] in Greece today and I'm just wondering whether -- I know international is a key driver of your revenue.
Talk to us about the content.
Is there any risk there? Do you have long-term contracts? Do you get prepaid? Is some of this growth potentially at risk as we get more disruption in the European markets? And then on TV Everywhere it seems like best practices here is Time Warner where they take their linear feed they put it directly on to the Internet with all the commercials and Nielsen is able to measure that.
And so they're aggregating that 1% to 2% lift of a very attractive demographic into the TVS [ph] and TNT overall ratings.
Could you update us on where you are on TV Everywhere and whether you think that's a good idea? Or do you want to keep ripping apart the programming and putting in new commercials online? Well first I'll deal with international.
No matter what has happened with the economy internationally our numbers have grown in leaps and bounds.
As you've seen in the last 5 years we have doubled the amount of revenue we're taking in internationally.
A lot of them are long-term output deals.
But in addition there is such a demand for the top-quality programming that we have seen no slowdown whatsoever in our major European markets or in Canada or in Australia.
And the good news is it continues to grow.
As long as we keep producing original top-notch content we're going to get paid for it and those numbers should continue to go up.
In terms of TV Everywhere look we are a supporter.
If someone is paying us a retrans fee then we welcome people being able to get our content whenever or wherever they can.
As long as Nielsen is counting them we are welcoming that even more because what we want eventually to have happen is an eyeball is an eyeball is an eyeball that we get Nielsen ratings and we get advertising for everything.
And I would prefer to keep the system where the commercial load is exactly the same and we get paid the same whether it's TV Everywhere whether it's online or on the air.
Once again as the MSOs get ready to do it we're prepared to do it.
But at the same time we're able to sell wherever we want.
Our next question comes from Doug Mitchelson with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was thinking about exploring your comment that retrans should accelerate significantly.
Maybe we'll leave that for another day.
On the scatter market for the first quarter we're all poking around in volumes because of some of the setbacks we saw in December and in the fourth quarter generally.
And you said mid-teens.
I think scatter pricing was stronger last year.
How should we think about scatter pricing? What's a good number given it was higher last year? How are you balance the upfront in the scatter? I think we said again -- Doug this is Joe it's mid-teens over the upfront.
Again I think the good news is is what we're saying is we're seeing increased demand.
And again obviously the strength of our schedule is really kind of giving us a lot of confidence.
We're seeing -- in terms of categories we're seeing a big pickup for auto.
So that continues to be strong.
It's a big category.
So we're pretty optimistic about the rest of this broadcast season.
Yes the absolute numbers last year you're right the scatter numbers were higher higher percentage up off of the lower number at the upfront.
So this year's upfront was we were up between 13% and 14%.
And then you add that mid-teen number and it's pretty strong.
Once again we think that our demand is higher than our competitors' right now.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And I guess just to paraphrase what you already said in your prepared remarks; it's more likely that strong upfront flows through in the March quarter than what we saw in the December quarter.
That's right.
That's absolutely right.
Research Division</strong> And then just a clarification Joe.
That Outdoor mid-single-digit revenue growth that's x any unusual items right? That's sort of what we would see in the print? Yes.
Well that's on a constant dollar basis.
We -- obviously we don't -- I don't know what the exchange rate is going to do plus or minus.
So that's what we've done an underlying apples-to-apples basis.
So obviously if the exchange rate moved plus or minus we'll adjust for that but that's constant dollar.
We'll go next to Michael Meltz with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So can you help us a little bit with the earnings progression throughout the year? Any factors that we should consider that might skew the numbers a bit in terms of the -- either the syndication deals or the online video deals? Well like I said we just said the online streaming deals on a full year basis will be higher.
Obviously you'll have some quarter issues.
I think last year second quarter we had a big inflow of those deals.
So we might have a comp issue here in the second quarter.
But our fourth quarter obviously will be very strong because of political.
So I think again you'll have your normal seasonality I think with the year.
But again if you step back and you look at the full year we're pretty confident.
As we said in our remarks it's going to be a record year for us.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And what about the tax rate please? The tax rate as we're filing it in our 10-K you'll see that -- again what we've said is -- what we're saying is comparable to 2010 and 2009.
So the effective tax rate somewhere between 36% and 38% is what we're anticipating.
We'll go next to David Miller with Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Les on March Madness.
Correct me if I'm wrong but last year at this time or it's last year for the tournament the Final Four games were actually in April and the championship game was also in April.
This year I think the Final Four games are on March 31 with the national championship in April.
So is it nice and neat and clean where you'll capture most of that ad revenue or at least your share of it on March 31? Or is there sort of a couple day delay? I'm just trying to sort of model this out as best I can and then I have a follow-up.
Joe why don't you answer that and we're [indiscernible].
Yes.
Yes I think the Saturday games will fall into Q1 this year as opposed to Q2 next year -- last year.
So we will have a little calendarization issue.
But again that's only the Saturday games.
The final will obviously all be in the second quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay great.
And then also just with regard to your exposure to the London tube as it applies to the Outdoor business I mean it just seems like you guys can get really aggressive here come the London Olympics and just telling marketers that "Hey look if you want your brand or if you want your sign out there displayed in front of an extra 4 million people that are going to be descending on London you got a buy a contract now." Can you characterize how aggressive you guys are right now in selling that inventory right now? David there’s not too many people ask us how aggressive we're going to be.
I think they generally know the answer to that question.
And you're absolutely right.
This is -- it's an event we're looking forward to and it makes the investment in London Underground very valuable because we're going to cash in well.
And there is a lot of activity right now over there for our group.
Yes.
And they're putting -- I think people are booking early getting those orders booked.
And obviously it will benefit our third quarter.
We'll go next to David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
The first is in terms of upfront option activity I think we're sort of bumping around the deadline here.
Can you comment in terms of what you're seeing for 2Q option taking? And GM had canceled a bunch of buys not long ago.
So are you seeing them come back into the scatter market? And anything -- any more of the automakers falling behind? And then second it looks like in terms of first quarter you did a kind of nice needle-moving syndication deal with respect to CSI: Miami in the AMC network.
That I think could give you a pretty decent bump in the first quarter.
Is there anything offsetting that a year ago? Or does it look like you could kind of get a nice bump up from that? I'll do the first and I'll let Joe do the second.
The upfront options are remaining very very strong.
Nobody -- it's no different than any other year.
What General Motors did was de minimis.
And frankly with our schedule being as strong as it is we're having no trouble replacing the money at much higher rates.
So we're seeing very few options.
And it's sort of a normal normal year nothing abnormal.
As a matter fact it may be just the opposite.
And people want our schedule and it's good to be in the position we're in.
Yes.
As far as AMC look we're obviously very pleased that they see again the value in of our core franchises CSI.
So it will be incremental David.
There's nothing again comp-ing against something kind of unusual there.
So again just another example of our content in demand and us monetizing it.
And new people getting in and wanting the content.
A channel like AMC which has made a pretty good name for themselves on original programming getting into the syndication market there are more and more of those and being as we have the most valuable current content and library content new ways of maximize it.
And Jay we have time for one more question.
Our final question will come from Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two quick ones in Local.
OIBDA was helped in Q4 the press release said by cost containment and the NBA lockout.
So how should we think about costs in 2012 and beyond? Is there more room to cut costs? Or will most of the margin expansion come from increased revenue? And then my second question is in Outdoor what was the London Underground settlement? Okay Marci let me start with the Local the cost.
I think again we always look at -- we're always looking at our costs on our Local segment.
So we think we can manage that cost effectively.
So I think margin expansion will clearly come from the top line driving the top line.
But again we've demonstrated year in and year out that we're able to cut cost control costs and manage it very effectively.
So 2012 is going be no different.
But obviously again the top line we should be benefiting from -- again our #1 category in automotive is strong and we have an incremental category in political.
So we're feeling pretty optimistic about that.
Regarding the London Underground because of confidentiality we can't provide details.
But what we can tell you is we're pleased with the outcome and we're positioned again with the Olympics coming near to really kind of enjoy the benefits of this contract for the next few years.
So again we're pleased with the outcome but that's really all we can say.
And Marci the NBA; we have KCAL we have the Lakers.
So we had a few games that were missed during the quarter for the Lakers.
But that's once again not a huge number.
But it did affect the cost.
And this concludes today's call.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Have a great evening.
That does concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the CBS Corporation First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Teleconference.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to the Executive Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our first quarter 2012 earnings call.
Joining me for today's discussion are Sumner Redstone our Executive Chairman; Leslie Moonves President and CEO; and Joe Ianniello Executive Vice President and CFO.
Sumner will have opening remarks and we'll turn the call over to Les and Joe who will discuss the strategic and financial results.
We will then open the call up to questions.
Please note that statements on this conference call relating to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed in CBS Corporation's news releases and Securities filings.
A webcast of this call and the earnings release related to today's presentation can be found on the Investors section of our website at cbscorporation.com.
Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information related to this call can be found in our earnings release or also on our website.
And with that it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Sumner.
Thank you Adam.
Good afternoon everyone.
I thank you all for being with us today.
CBS' performance this quarter was nothing short of amazing.
The numbers prove we are operating for our vision of incredible strength and the momentum keeps building and building and building.
We have world-class content that people want to see and we are delivering it in a way they want to see it.
And because our content is so good it commands a premium on every platform.
Our content is the best actually.
As we look ahead I know we have the right strategy in place to propel CBS even beyond where it is today.
I know this because we have a management team that proves me right quarter after quarter after quarter.
None of this immense success would be possible without this management team.
As you know the executive in charge of this great management team is Les Moonves CBS' President and CEO.
So it gives me tremendous pleasure to turn this call over to my good friend Les a man I figuratively and appropriately call a genius so he can tell you more about our terrific results.
Les the ball is in your court.
Thank you very much Sumner.
Good afternoon everybody and thank you for joining us once again.
We told you during our last call that this quarter would be a terrific start to the year.
And as you can see from the numbers today it is.
In fact since we became a stand-alone corporation we posted record first quarter results in 5 key financial metrics: Revenue was up 12%; OIBDA up 34%; operating income up 47%; net income up 80%; and EPS of $0.54 was up 86%.
As you can see each category had healthy double-digit increases and our best ever for a first quarter.
We are on a tremendous run one that we will be very confident will also produce a record 2012 and an extraordinary 2013.
We have many reasons to be confident.
Our core business is solid.
Advertising dollars are growing and that will only get better in the second half of the year when political spending ramps up.
We also have a number of hit shows ready to be sold into domestic syndication over the next 2 years and international syndication continues to be a dynamic story.
And as you know one of the most powerful developments in our business model is the growth of steady and recurring non-advertising revenue which is increasingly paying off.
Syndication retrans and online streaming are having a huge impact on our numbers and are not directly tied to the economy.
All told 39% of our total revenue in the first quarter came from non-advertising sources.
Many of these revenue sources did not even exist just a few short years ago.
As we continue to transform our business model you'll see that number rise even higher.
None of this would be possible without premium content.
Across the company we have industry-leading programming in every business in which we compete and it's getting more valuable by the day.
Today I'm going to walk you through our first quarter numbers then I'll give you some highlights about our segments before I turn it over to Joe.
After that we'll be happy to take your questions.
As I said this is our best first quarter ever in terms of revenue OIBDA operating income net income and EPS.
Revenue came in at $3.9 billion.
That's up more than $400 million from last year.
We turned that revenue gain into a 34% increase in OIBDA which reached $773 million.
Our operating income grew 47% to $642 million and our net income rose to 80% to $363 million.
Finally EPS came in at $0.54 up 86% from the first quarter in 2011.
During the quarter we also refinanced $700 million of debt at very attractive rates.
You'll hear more about how this will enhance our financial future from Joe shortly.
Meanwhile our first quarter free cash flow came in at $607 million and we continue to use the majority of our excess cash to return capital to shareholders.
In the first quarter we repurchased $269 million of our stock putting us well on our way to reaching our target of $1 billion in share buybacks this year along with our recurring dividend as well.
Moving forward using our excess cash to return capital to our shareholders will remain a top priority for CBS.
Thanks to the performance of every one of our businesses we continue to generate healthy levels of free cash flow.
Let's take a look at these business segments now starting with the largest Entertainment.
The CBS Television Network is about to finish as the #1 network for the ninth time in 10 years.
Not only that but we are poised to win the season by the widest -- margin since the modern rating systems began 25 years ago.
80% of the top 20 scripted programs are on CBS.
We're drawing 18-year olds and 80-year olds.
And significantly year-to-year we have growth in all key ratings categories including viewers 25 to 54 and 18 to 49.
Looking ahead we are extremely confident our success will continue into next season.
In 2 weeks we will unveil our new fall lineup which will have the unique advantage of being one from a platform that virtually ensures success.
With 18 shows already renewed the competition to get on to our schedule is extremely strong meaning that we will be much more selective than our competitors will have to be.
So as we head into an improving upfront marketplace we feel very good about our future both creatively and financially.
Meanwhile I'm pleased that the wheels are in motion to launch a whole new era of success at CBS News.
Our flagship broadcast the CBS Evening News with Scott Pelley is averaging 1 million viewers a week more than last year and this is the only network evening news to be up year-over-year.
The crown jewel of CBS News 60 Minutes continues its dominance.
We lost a true legend in the history of broadcast journalism when Mike Wallace passed away last month.
As a testament to his enduring legacy our tribute broadcast to him was a top 10 show for the week and we followed it up with a top 10 performance last week too.
Plus in the lucrative weekday morning time slots the newly revamped CBS' Morning continues to post year-to-year increases as well.
CBS Sports also had a terrific year.
Our coverage of the NFL playoffs was the highest in decades and the NCAA Men's Basketball Championship was up 5% over the last year the best since 2005.
Plus we had a very exciting Masters playoffs a few weeks ago when Bubba Watson won his first green jacket.
Looking ahead the NFL schedule that was recently released gives us a large number of high-profile AFC and NFC matchups in our key O&amp;O markets.
And we now have Peyton Manning in Denver and Tim Tebow in New York which will be a big plus for us as well.
Of course we also have the Super Bowl to look forward to in the first quarter of 2013.
Clearly in entertainment news and sports our network programming is at the top of its game.
And as I mentioned our ability to syndicate our content continues to have a profound effect on our results.
In the next 2 years 4 of our biggest shows will be coming up for domestic syndication: Hawaii Five-O NCIS: Los Angeles The Good Wife and Blue Bloods.
This is just the first cycle of syndication for these shows.
They will later be sold in the second cycle and then all the new cycles that are coming our way.
We begin this process that we call the content value chain every single year when we launch our new schedule.
And each time we do we create new programming assets that can generate revenue for decades.
As I've said before content is forever and quality content never goes out of style.
Nowhere is this more evident than the way we monetize our content digitally.
In addition to the deals we've struck with Netflix and Amazon other online video distributors are looking to license our library contents.
And in some cases where it makes sense like at the CW we're also licensing newer content.
Today these deals are having a big impact on our financial results adding meaningful very high margin dollars to our bottom line.
At CBS Films we're also creating new content to be monetized throughout our company.
During the quarter we had great success with The Woman in Black which grossed more than $54 million and was profitable from its opening weekend.
Going forward the film will have an exclusive window on Showtime and then will be sold elsewhere for a longer-term benefit as well.
This is precisely the kind of model we will pursue as we grow this small business.
Moving to our cable segment our original programming continues to produce strong financial results with growth in rates subscribers and licensing fees.
And like all of our businesses this segment is also benefiting from new technology.
Half of the nearly $60 million revenue increase in Cable Networks this quarter came from digital streaming.
Showtime is at the center of that success and it had another outstanding quarter with a 6% increase in subscribers.
House of Lies has become our top-rated comedy and Shameless delivered its highest rated episode ever in the first quarter.
In July we will premiere season 2 of The Franchise featuring the Miami Marlins and Ozzie Guillen who have been generating lots of excitement lately.
In Publishing Simon &amp; Schuster continues to produce bestseller after bestseller.
We had 7 new #1 titles since the start of the year including Kill Shot by Vince Flynn and Lone Wolf by Jodi Picoult and last year's biggest hit the Steve Jobs biography and Stephen King's 11/22/63 have remained solidly on the bestseller list as well and continue to contribute to our results.
Digital e-books continue to grow at a rapid pace up 64% over last year's first quarter now representing 26% of Publishing's total revenues.
Once again the growth in digital is a positive development for us because e-books have better margins than the traditional print business.
Over at Local Broadcasting automotive advertising continues to improve and retail is beginning to take off as well.
We expect the second half of this year to receive a significant boost from political advertising as the general election heats up.
At our TV stations we're having great success in the ratings.
Every one of our CBS-owned stations ranked #1 in viewers in prime time during the most recent sweeps.
Plus we recently closed on our acquisition of WLNY giving us a duopoly in New York where we already have the country's most-watched TV station in prime time with WCBS-TV.
And CBS Radio remains at the top of the charts in both ratings and revenue with new success stories popping up all the time.
We have been particularly focused on widening our lead in news and sports by introducing these formats to the FM dial.
We have the #1 news station in each of the nation's top 4 markets.
And across the country the sports format continues to do very well for us overall.
In fact revenue at our sports stations was up nearly 10% for quarter year-over-year.
Meanwhile our Outdoor segment continues to benefit from more profitable contracts especially in the Americas where the U.S.
billboard and display business has shown particular strength.
And internationally we're looking forward to a significant lift as we approach the London Olympics later this year.
Across this business more profitable digital signage opportunities continue to present themselves both here and abroad.
As you can see throughout CBS we're extremely pleased with our first quarter.
We broke records in 5 key financial metrics for the quarter and I'm confident we will break records for the year as well.
We've been transforming this company into a content-driven higher-growth business for several years now.
And the good news is that all the strategic actions we've taken to do this are coming together as evidenced by today's numbers.
Newly established growth drivers like retrans online video distribution and international expansion have created steady recurring revenue streams that fall right to our bottom line.
And we have negotiated long-term profitable deals for our Kent Pearl [ph] programming events like the NFL the NCAA Basketball Tournament SEC Football the PGA Tour the Grammys and the Academy of Country Music Awards all of which will benefit us for at least a decade under their new contracts.
These developments along with ongoing cost containment and a very strong balance sheet have laid the foundation for us to continue to generate the kind of results you see today.
In addition we're looking forward to our local stations benefiting from political spending in the third and fourth quarter.
We're readying some of CBS' biggest hits to be sold in syndication in the next 2 years and we're extremely eager to sell our new fall lineup in the upfront marketplace in just a few weeks.
We lead the upfront last year.
We guarantee we will lead it again this year both in value and in CPMs.
I think you can see why we're so excited about what we have said will be a record year in 2012 and a very lucrative 2013.
We've told you that the opportunities before us were enormous and clearly this first quarter shows that they are.
It's a great time to be an investor in CBS and we're poised for a long long run.
And with that I will turn it over to Joe.
Thanks Les and good afternoon everyone.
Today I'm going to provide some more details about our first quarter results and then I'll discuss what we see for the rest of 2012 and touch on 2013.
Let's start with the first quarter results.
As you've seen and heard today we are committed to growing our non-advertising revenue streams and maximizing the monetization of our content.
This shift towards more stable high-margin revenue drove our earnings growth this quarter and we expect it will continue to enhance our earnings well into the future.
As Les said revenue of $3.9 billion was up 12% for the quarter.
The growth was broad-based with increases in all 3 major revenue streams.
Content licensing and distribution grew 39% because of the incremental revenue from our streaming deals as well as the ongoing strength of our international and domestic syndication sales.
Affiliate and subscription fees were up 7% driven by growth from our Cable Networks as well as higher retrans fees.
In total advertising was up 5% which I'll talk more about later.
OIBDA of $773 million rose 34% as nearly 50% of our revenue growth flowed through to OIBDA increasing our OIBDA margin from 16% last year to 20% this year which is double what it was just 2 years ago.
Operating income of $642 million was up 47% and our operating income margin also expanded 400 basis points.
These results also benefited from our continued focus on cost controls.
EPS came in at $0.54 up 86%.
This includes a noncash after-tax impairment charge of $14 million for the sale of our West Palm Beach radio cluster which we announced last month and is consistent with our plan to focus on large markets.
EPS also includes a $16 million after-tax gain on the early extinguishment of debt.
These 2 items offset one another having no net impact to our reported EPS.
Let's turn to our operating segments.
Entertainment revenue for the quarter was $2.3 billion up 16%.
The growth in this segment was once again driven by strong content monetization from licensing revenue and higher ad sales for our premium programming.
Network advertising was up 8%.
The underlying ad sales growth was up 4% with the other 4% driven by the timing of the Final Four.
OIBDA of $411 million for this segment was up 53% and the OIBDA margin expanded 5 percentage points to 18%.
Cable Networks' revenue came in at $452 million to up 15%.
This segment is also benefiting from our new digital streaming opportunities and international syndication deals from our owned content.
In addition we continue to generate strong subscriber growth with Showtime subs now solidly over 21 million.
Cable OIBDA of $209 million increased 37% driven by the revenue increase and the timing of programming expenses.
In Publishing revenue of $176 million for the quarter was up 14%.
As Les said e-books continues to be a bigger portion of our business and are contributing to our higher OIBDA as well as expanding our publishing margins.
Local Broadcasting revenue was steady at $622 million compared to last year.
TV station revenue was up 2% while radio revenue was down 2%.
During the quarter local sales outpaced national sales at our stations.
This development underscores the strength of the rebound of small businesses.
This is an encouraging sign because the improvement of local businesses can be a leading indicator of a sustained economic recovery.
Also as you know political will be a significant contributor in the back half of 2012.
OIBDA before the radio sale impairment charge I just discussed was $171 million up 1%.
Outdoor revenue of $416 million for the quarter was also up 1% and on a constant dollar basis it grew 2%.
The Americas continue to lead the way up 4% over last year including a 6% increase in the U.S.
our largest market.
Outdoor OIBDA of $53 million was up 8%.
Turning to cash flow and our balance sheet.
We told you on our last call that we would look to refinance debt to reduce our interest costs to be more in line with current market rates.
During the first quarter we issued a new $700 million 10-year note with a coupon of 3.375% the lowest rate ever issued for a similar-rated media company.
We took those proceeds and paid off $700 million worth of notes that had a coupon of 6.75%.
The result is a savings of $22 million a year in annual interest expense a benefit you will begin to see in Q2.
In the months ahead we will look to opportunistically tap the credit markets again for further savings on interest costs.
For the quarter free cash flow came in at $607 million and we ended the quarter with $794 million of cash on hand.
Also during the first quarter we spent $269 million to retire 9 million shares of our stock at an average price of $30 per share.
We have $1.7 billion remaining on our current stock buyback program and we're committed to aggressively returning this capital to our shareholders and completing this program by the end of next year.
Now let me give you a few observations of what we see ahead.
Local Broadcasting is pacing to be up low-single digits for Q2 again with political ramping up in the second half of the year.
Our Outdoor group is also pacing to be up low-single digits in the second quarter as we head into the London Olympics which will largely benefit Q3.
Also we are heading into a healthy upfront marketplace in a couple of weeks.
During our call in February we talked about 3 financial drivers to our EPS.
I already brought you up-to-date on 2 of them our share buyback program and our refinancing efforts.
The third depreciation and amortization expense is beginning to trend down with our CapEx spending and that should continue well beyond 2012.
For the quarter depreciation and amortization expense was lower by $8 million compared to last year.
Now I'd like to talk briefly about our visibility into 2013.
Here is what we know so far.
On the advertising side the strength of this year's upfront will set the stage for 2013.
And given our competitive position we're poised to do very well.
In addition we have Super Bowl XLVII in Q1 of next year which will also benefit our local stations.
Couple this with it being our turn to broadcast the AFC Championship game in prime time and the Grammys coming this Sunday after the Super Bowl and you're looking at 3 major prime time events within a 4-week time period in Q1.
Plus our non-advertising revenue streams are expected to increase in 2013.
We have the first of 2 options to extend one of our major streaming arrangements as well as the benefit of new retrans deals that will take effect next year.
To top it off we will have 176 episodes of premium content from 4 seasons of 2 of our hit shows: NCIS: Los Angeles and The Good Wife available for first cycle syndication in 2013.
Later seasons of these shows plus Hawaii Five-O and Blue Bloods are also in our future pipeline.
And as Les said we're only talking first cycle syndication which means these shows will be contributing to our bottom line for many years.
All of the actions we've taken both strategically and financially will continue to transform CBS.
In summary we're very pleased with our first quarter results.
This was a record quarter setting us up for a record year.
And that momentum will continue into 2013 and beyond.
And with that Jason we can now open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Les can I ask you first about the ad market? I think in the fourth quarter you guys were sort of flattish at the network on ad sales.
And if you strip out the NCAA timing I think you said 4% growth in March.
And you had taken some -- a little bit of criticism around -- about the upfront last year and sort of waiting for -- some of the May goods to kick in.
I'm wondering if you could just talk about what happened this quarter? Why we saw the acceleration? Did you sort of better monetized your ratings because there's some issues with your competitors? Is this a market improvement? Anything around those -- scatter premiums any of those details would be very helpful.
I think it's a little bit of everything.
Obviously our ratings have been fairly significant and fairly dominant.
In addition the marketplace clearly has gotten a lot stronger in the first quarter than it was in the fourth quarter.
And as we head towards the upfront and scatter becomes a little bit less important although scatter still double-digits I think everybody is preparing right now for the upfront.
And we're airing a terrific position because the advertisers have come back in a very strong way.
We're getting a lot of early indications.
As I said our schedule is fairly secure and that we've announced 18 pickups and there's another one that's almost done which would be a 19th.
And so the advertisers -- it's a lot better to plan for a schedule on CBS than anybody else.
And we're feeling a lot of strength in the ad market.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just to follow up on the international front.
Maybe Joe you mentioned international syndication a couple of times.
This is a big topic at your investor day I think it was a year ago plus.
Can you just give us a sense for what kind of price increases you typically see and you expect to see this year? There's obviously a lot of investor concern about Europe that you could help us think about how important Europe is versus other regions in the international syndication business.
Just to help us think about the drivers in the summer and as we move into the fall.
That will be helpful.
Sure.
Look I think it's the demand right is what's really driving it.
It's in obviously more countries as well as the more established countries it's more competitive.
So clearly that's allowing us to have pricing leverage in those negotiations.
So -- but I think the strong demand is really what's driving that Ben.
We'll go next to Jessica Reif-Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two questions if I can? Given the success you've had or enjoying right now in content do you have any thoughts about or plans of -- for producing for other entities outside of CBS? Basically do you have capacity to scale up and would you? Yes.
We right now are producing one show for USA.
We have another pilot right now in the works for Turner.
And CBS also has a pilot for Showtime which is internal.
So with the pipeline into CBS and into CW we are now expanding and we are looking to do that.
And we're in pretty good shape and we do have the capacity to do that.
Research Division</strong> And then just a question on Showtime.
Maybe the strength -- the growth in subs has been really surprising given everybody else's performance.
Where do you think penetration can wind up? Or how much more growth do you think is ahead? Well HBO is 27 and 28 and they were 27 about 5 years ago when we were 13.
So we've added 8 million and there's no reason we can't add some more going forward.
I mean clearly people are responding to our original programming in a big big way and it's not surprising to us that our subscribers are increasing.
We'll go next to Michael Morris with Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on cable and then a follow-up.
The payments for the Showtime content digital was pretty strong this quarter.
Can you talk a little bit about what the pipeline looks like there? It feels a little less transparent or maybe a little less talked about than the CBS pipeline.
So as first any insight on the Showtime content pipeline? And then also I mean it's almost 100% margin revenue growth at the cable segment this quarter can you talk about the cost side? I think you mentioned timing of programming costs and maybe you can give us an insight on that for the rest of the year? Then I have a follow-up.
Sure Michael it's Joe.
Look I think part of the strategy with Showtime was only more of the original series and you're seeing the benefit of that.
Clearly we're selling those domestically as part of our new streaming deals as well as internationally.
House of Lies again is another good example of one that's kind of coming that again we owned.
So again it's just another example of these ancillary revenue streams that as you're seeing are pretty significant very high margin contributing to that strategic action.
So yes we definitely -- the margin of Showtime from the first quarter grew significantly.
There will be timing of the way we expense things in terms of premieres et cetera.
So we will have a little bit of that.
But again it's a very strong flow-through of the revenue that's really driving it.
And I think as Les said in his remarks about half of the 15% growth came from these digital opportunities but the other half is coming from our base business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Was the first quarter growth in the streaming is that your biggest quarter for the year? Or do you have any sense of what the pipeline looks like for the balance of the year? Yes.
Well look we're having these conversations all the time with people who want to get into the business and extend their deals.
So from -- yes from the deals that we have currently under contract yes.
But again like I said that's changing all the time.
And there's a lot of interest and demand for more and more of these deals.
So we're constantly talking to people.
So I don't know...
Yes I don't know if we said that this was the highest quarter for that.
We really don't know.
The other quarters are looking potentially even bigger than that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then over in the affiliate and subscription fee side the growth was $29 million this quarter year-over-year.
Can you help us break that down a little bit? Because it seems like it's a little lower than I would've expected given the retransmission outlook that you've given and sort of that split of 50-50 in terms of the revenue growth at cable.
What -- can you give us more details and maybe help us understand how that will trend this year? Yes if you're just looking about -- again if you look at the segments Michael just remember when we record retrans half in local broadcasting and half in entertainment.
So you just have to be careful when you're looking at the actual dollar amounts.
I think again as we've said retrans it's $250 million this year.
We're clearly on track for that.
We obviously see some upside to that and we're renegotiating all these deals all the time.
So we continue to think it's going to be a strong part of our earnings growth.
And a lot of the affiliate deals as we said weren't up aren't up until next year.
So you'll see a rapid rise there in the 50-50 types of deals with our affiliates.
We'll go next to Laura Martin with Needham.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just following up on Jessica's question about producing for other platforms.
A lot of us were at the digital upfront last week and there's a lot of really interesting digital original programming coming onto the Internet.
I'm just wondering Les is this something you guys are doing now or is it something you guys might expand into? I know Warner's got 20 new shows on the air and AOL is paying them for their pilots for a 60-day exclusive.
Is that something that you guys are pursuing now or might going forward? Yes.
I mean we have a lot of premium content that is not scripted fictional content.
We do have some laboratories and we are experimenting with that to make it a good financial model.
Obviously along with Warner Bros I think we're at the top of the line in terms of producing great fictional content.
And it's something we want to do more down the line.
We haven't yet see the model that makes it financially worthwhile to do it in a big way but we do have a lot of smaller experiments going on.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then silos on local I thought that interest -- it was a great point you made about local being more robust than national.
What are the major silos that are driving the strong local ad growth in the first quarter? Laura this is Joe.
We saw that from auto as well as retail.
Those are probably the 2 strongest categories which are our top 4 categories for us.
Yes.
The fact that auto is back is huge -- it's hugely significant for our local businesses.
So we applaud what's happening in Detroit and throughout the world in the auto segment.
And they're obviously very -- there are much healthier companies now even the small businesses I think are all kind of recapitalized.
And again it's just a good underlying point just to make for the strength of the local economies.
We'll go next to Doug Mitchelson with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> And I'll also going to ask a question a completely unrelated follow-up.
Les when you think about the upfront strategy -- you're upfront strategy and think about how the December quarter ended up with disappointing scatter volumes for everyone in the marketplace does that influence you at all to bump up your upfront sellout this go-around? No not really.
Not really.
Overall scatter is still good.
And once again I know people think I sound cocky about our schedule but we do feel very good about it going there.
And if we don't get our right pricing we are not going to sell.
Our intent going in is to sell close to 80% but only at the right pricing otherwise I'm more than happy to hold out.
And the fact that the market wasn't as strong as we would've liked as it has been in the fourth quarter bears -- it doesn't make us change that whatsoever.
Research Division</strong> And a question for Joe on the balance sheet.
Since you've been letting debt leverage drift lower last year and this year a bit.
Looking down the road can you outline how your philosophy in the balance sheet might evolve given the profits for the company are increasingly being sourced from non-advertising less cyclical revenue streams? So in other words that would adjust the company over time could bear -- safely bear higher leverage rather than lower leverage.
So any thoughts on how your balance sheet philosophy might evolve that could be helpful.
Sure Doug.
Look we're very happy with our balance sheet.
Obviously we've changed the complexion of it tremendously over the last couple of years.
Our priority right now is focusing of returning capital to shareholders.
And clearly as we gain more visibility into our cash flows and as you said there are more -- much more and more of them are committed to everyday gives us a lot of confidence in looking at our return of capital policy.
I think just last year we doubled our dividend as well as doubled our share buyback program.
So again we're looking at that all the time.
We're committed.
And it’s our major priority to look to increase that over time.
Research Division</strong> How should investors think about that? Should they think about that as something you review annually and so 2013 would be the next time we'd see a major change? Or this is an annualized...
Daily.
Daily we talk about it.
We'll go next to David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I will try and keep it to one here guys.
Les you've done a great job sort of explaining how the monetization of the content particularly on the existing platforms digital and traditional are driving earnings.
The existing digital platforms are -- and I don't want to say they're maturing but what I would say is everybody's starting to realize they're for real they're recurring.
And so the next leg of growth will probably come -- the next real big leg probably comes from the next bunch of entrants into the platform.
And can you talk about the level of activity that you're seeing and you're discussing with the Xfinity Streams and the Fios Coinstars and the Intel virtual MVP -- what is the -- how real is that and how much discussion is going on and can you quantify the opportunity in some way? Yes.
No it's a very good question.
And once again as Joe mentioned we have the right to extend our opportunity with Netflix and that we will continue for many years at our option.
And we are in active conversations with many of the other participants from the Intels of the world to some of the existing companies like Comcast and their service.
What's great about all this is we're literally talking to everyone who's out there.
And when you have the library and the existing content that we do across all these platforms mostly entertainment but also some news and sports content there's opportunities galore out there.
So when we first did Netflix everybody said "Oh do you see anybody else out there?" And sure enough Amazon came along and made a big deal.
There are a lot of players out there circling the building.
And we will be making some of those deals over the next number of months.
We'll go next to David Miller with Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One question for you Joe you had mentioned depreciation expenses trending down in line with your CapEx levels.
I believe you mentioned that 90-days ago and you said so again in your prepared remarks earlier in the session here.
And obviously it gives you a lot more operating leverage on the P&amp;L but I think it's still been consensus estimates.
I mean do you see this kind of leveling off as we get into Q4 and into Q1 of next year? Or do you see the trend down kind of continuing the way it has been quarter-over-quarter as we get into the meat of 2013? Sure David.
Look we definitely see the trends coming down.
I mean obviously you can just look at the size of the numbers.
Our D&amp;A is -- on a run-rate basis is $540 million and our CapEx is somewhere between 250 and 300.
Right? So you can see that that's going to converge over time.
It's just depreciation is a multi-year type of expense noncash.
But -- so if this benefit continues -- so it doesn't kind of end in Q1 or 2013.
This is going to continue for several years until those 2 lines kind of converge.
But again it is causing operating leverage to EPS.
We'll go next to John Janedis with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Les you obviously mentioned the opportunities of the lower on the SVOD front.
But to Dave's point earlier there really hasn't been that much new in terms of new entrants.
Are the buyers -- or maybe the potential buyers taking a wait-and-see approach based on what kind of subscriber growth we'd see in Netflix or Amazon? And is the bias towards exclusive deals going forward? Number one there is obviously more information available from the Netflix and the Amazons about what shows are being watched.
And once again in that bundle there's some very good news.
There are certain of our shows that are watched by a ton of people the Star Trek franchise for instance is that and that becomes very concerted.
Look we have a nonexclusive deal with Netflix a nonexclusive with Amazon.
The newer deals will continue on that basis.
And I don't know if they're taking a wait-and-see.
I think they're figuring out different models.
And as we said over and over again once again they need our content.
They need our content no matter what it is.
So they're looking at it in different ways and sometimes in the same way.
So it's going to be an exciting period of time.
Research Division</strong> And as a follow-up then Les should we assume that your bias is still towards the guaranteed deals rather than user space? Yes that's for sure.
That's for sure.
We'll go next to Michael Nathanson with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I have one for Les and one for Joe.
Les you mentioned that there are 19 shows any day now have been renewed.
Can we look at your schedule for the next year? How do you balance your desire to own more of your own content with your continual focus on driving ratings? So how do you blend that? And then comedy is an area we've outsourced to Warner Bros.
to a great degree.
At what point do you start taking more of that inside at CBS Productions? For us priority number one is to get ratings.
That's the biggest bucket that we have keeping our network #1 keeping it healthy.
Ownership becomes a second priority.
That's the second bucket owning the syndication.
Yes we have more dramas that we own.
Number one we have twice as many dramas on our schedule right now as comedies.
And frankly the dramas now with the international marketplace and more importantly the domestic marketplace now exploding with drama.
And international continuing almost becomes a better -- and not almost is a better value proposition for us than the comedies.
In addition very few of the comedies if they score they score big.
All dramas pretty much score big internationally.
So that's a better marketplace.
That's not to say we wouldn't like to expand our presence in comedy.
It's something that we will look to do over the next couple of years.
But we are primarily a drama place and that's worked out just fine for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one for Joe you mentioned that -- your digital deals for Showtime.
What shows were they? I'd assume those were shows that we're canceled right? So what shows came up to market this year? Those we're like the Sleeper Cells of the world those type of shows there.
What's the other one Dexter is not...
The earlier seasons of Dexter were there as well.
And...
Tudors.
Right The Tudors exactly is off the air.
That's what -- in the first quarter Michael.
We'll go next to William Bird with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Where is the market currently clearing for retrans? And separately if exercised how much could your Netflix option increment revenues in 2013? The Netflix deal should be a slight increase I believe in past deals.
And also the significant thing about that to be remembered is if we take off a hit show that we own which there's a good chance of happening that automatically goes into the new Netflix deal.
So there'll be an automatic big bump in terms of that.
And the retrans question Joe do you want to take that? Look the retrans question look I think is what we've said the 250.
We broke down the math on investor day at 250 that equated to $0.50 per sub by just math.
I think obviously we're seeing significantly higher than that so that's just going to continue.
So every negotiation is a little bit different but the good news is I think we were conservative.
We'll go next to Anthony DiClemente with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I have one quick one for Joe and then one for Les.
Joe what exactly was the local -- what did local TV advertising do in the quarter? I know that the overall segment was up 2%.
What was advertising? On the local side you're saying? Local...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
CBS Television Stations' advertising revenue in the quarter.
In all TV stations.
Of all TV is plus 2% and local outpaced that probably mid-single digits.
Research Division</strong> No but doesn't that plus 2 include retrans? Yes but in retrans remember it's very small Anthony.
Because again it's only 50%.
It's only the delta.
So that plus 2% still rounds to a plus 2% with or without.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right so you can't give us what advertising did? It's a 2% Anthony.
So it's not something the numbers did different.
Right? Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
One for Les.
I think you guys have a big uptick in NFL rights season 2014.
If I'm not mistaken I think it's $300 million or $400 million.
And Les if I know you guys I know you wouldn't have done that deal unless you knew you could cover the cost of it.
So maybe you could just talk about your path to profitability on an incremental basis on that deal? Number one it's not -- the increase is not quite as high as you said -- it.
And the numbers starts -- remember it's a deal that lasts for a long time that starts a little bit above what we're paying now and expands as our advertising expands.
As you said it will be profitable from season one in the new deal.
So it is a very good deal.
It's a very fair deal.
And as well as there is some extra rights that are involved in it plus we will be getting better games because we have the NFC.
We have 7 NFC games from the bigger market teams that will -- should increase our ratings.
So it's a slow gradual increase in the fees.
And once again advertising and retrans and all those things will more than make it very profitable deal.
We'll go last to Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 2 somewhat unrelated questions.
The first Joe can you just give us a little more color on pacings? For Outdoor can you break out domestic versus international? And for Broadcast radio versus television? And then my second question is on Hulu Les any thoughts about joining them if it becomes an authentication model? Okay Marci I'll start.
The pacing again for Local Broadcasting I think TV is slightly ahead of Radio right now as we sit here.
Like I said it's a pace so it changes kind of from week to week but as a segment clearly as I said is low-single digits.
On Outdoor again I don't think it's a surprise that the Americas have clearly -- outpacing Europe.
So that's how it's getting to -- again also that low-single digits.
And again we always give our pacing on a constant dollar basis.
So that's really the color.
And regarding Hulu we'll take a look at it on under the authentication model.
Right now we're very pleased with our digital strategy without Hulu.
We're doing extremely well being nonexclusive with the Netflix and the Amazon and more importantly our CBS.com sites which we keep 100% hundred cents on the dollar.
When it comes out and we will of course have a conversation with them.
On the CW side we're doing business with Hulu Plus right now.
So we're -- we do talk to them.
But right now we're very happy with our strategy.
LLC Research Division</strong> Joe can I just clarify the Americas outdoor.
Would say it's accelerated or decelerated or the same? For Q1? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
I'd say steady.
Remember the Americas was up 4%.
So I'd say steady.
And this concludes today's call.
Thank you everyone for joining us and have a great evening.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the CBS Corporation Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Teleconference.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to the Executive Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
Joining me for today's discussion are Sumner Redstone our Executive Chairman; Leslie Moonves President and CEO; and Joe Ianniello Executive Vice President and CFO.
Sumner will have opening remarks and we'll turn the call over to Les and Joe who will discuss the strategic and financial results.
We will then open the call up to questions.
Please note that statements on this conference call relating to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed in CBS Corporation's news releases and securities filings.
A webcast of this call and the earnings release related to today's presentation can be found on the Investors section of our website at cbscorporation.com.
Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information related to this call can be found in our earnings release or on our website.
And with that it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Sumner.
Thank you Adam.
Good afternoon everyone.
I could not be more pleased to be reporting yet another quarter of truly spectacular results.
Our world-class content remains a driving force behind our success.
And we continue to sell our content in new ways that generate higher and higher profits and there are many more opportunities before us that will enable us to grow year after year and year after year.
Our CBS strategy is working better than ever and I am convinced it will keep us at the forefront of our industry for many many years to come.
But as you know strategy is not everything.
You also need the right person at the top to execute that strategy.
And obviously there is nobody better suited for that job than CBS' President my friend Les Moonves.
So to tell you more about CBS' exceptional performance I'm going to turn this call over to the man I call a super genius Les.
And Les the reason I call you a super genius is there are no words to describe the spectacular manner in which you have operated CBS.
And you know I'm proud of you and I'm proud of all your achievements Les.
Thank you Sumner.
I'm blushing.
You can't see me but thank you very much for those very nice remarks.
You're entitled to those comments.
You are the best.
I'm very flattered.
Good afternoon everybody and thank you for joining us.
I'm very pleased to be reporting another terrific quarter today.
In fact in EPS operating income and OIBDA we didn't just break records for the second quarter we delivered record results that were better than any quarter since CBS Corporation became a standalone company 6.5 years ago.
EPS of $0.65 was our highest ever and so is operating income of $769 million.
OIBDA of $901 million was an all-time quarterly high as well and to top it off our OIBDA margin of 26% was also the best we've achieved to date.
It's important to point out that this was a very clean quarter.
No special items drove these results.
Clearly CBS is increasingly benefiting from the steps we've taken to improve our business model.
While our traditional businesses continue to grow and provide a tremendous source of strength for our company we also have multiple sources of recurring high-margin revenue that are increasingly paying off in our results.
And the good news is there's still a long way to go in our evolution.
Plus we have several significant contributors to revenues in the quarters and years to come driving us to what we're confident will be record results for this year and an even better 2013.
First in terms -- in the near term pacing in the third quarter is accelerating across our local businesses.
The London Olympics and the presidential election here in the U.S.
will significantly help our results in the back half of the year.
Second we recently sold our network inventory at very attractive pricing in the upfront.
This will not only benefit us later this year but throughout the 2012-2013 television season.
Third in 2013 and 2014 we have 4 hit shows going into syndication: Hawaii Five-0 NCIS: Los Angeles The Good Wife and Blue Bloods.
These titles will generate hundreds of millions of dollars for us in the next couple of years and then they will follow in the footsteps of CSI and NCIS continuing to generate significant revenue for many years to come.
In addition the success of our programming is fueling new and growing revenue streams on emerging digital platforms.
Consumer demand is driving this growth and we continue to have discussions with all sorts of developing streaming and download services.
We look forward to updating you on our progress in this area very soon.
Across the board our content is what distinguishes this company and it what's makes us so confident about a future that is increasingly rewarding those with the best programming.
In fact it's this confidence that led to last week's announcement to expand our share repurchase program by 57% and increase our dividend by 20%.
Returning value to shareholders has always been a top priority for us and this new commitment demonstrates that it will be in the years to come at well -- as well.
Right now I'm going to tell you some more about our second quarter results and then I'll give you some highlights of each of our businesses before turning it over to Joe for more details.
And after that we'll obviously be happy to take your questions.
As I said in the second quarter we set all-time records in EPS operating income and OIBDA.
As we produced these record-setting profit numbers 2 timing issues affected our revenue during the quarter.
Last year the semifinals of the NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament were in the second quarter.
This year they were in the first.
Likewise the initial substantial wave of revenue from our new streaming deal was reported in the second quarter last year and this year we reported it in the first quarter.
As a result revenue of $3.5 billion this quarter came in a little lower than a year ago.
But the entire difference in revenue between this year and last year is because of these 2 noncomparable items.
Meanwhile we're containing our expenses and strengthening our balance sheet.
We recently took advantage of the favorable debt markets to do some significant refinancing which will save us tens of millions of dollars a year in interest costs going forward.
So as you can see even with an uneven economy our financial health is superb our content is at the top of its game and the opportunities in front of us are enormous.
Now let's take a look at how each of our businesses is contributing to our success starting with Entertainment.
The CBS Television Network recently scored a broadcast television trifecta: For the year we were #1 in viewers we were #1 in upfront revenue and we were #1 in Emmy nominations.
Good performance good business and outstanding quality on the screen.
In terms of viewers this was the ninth year -- ninth time in the last 10 years that CBS has been #1.
Our success has clearly dispelled the myth of network cyclicality.
Not only do we continue to dominate year-after-year but our lead is widening.
This past season we had nearly 3 million more viewers per week than our nearest competitor the largest margin of victory by any network in more than 20 years.
And success breeds more success.
Due to the strength of our existing schedule this fall we'll be adding just 4 new shows while our competitors are forced to add many more.
With fewer shows to produce and the best platform from which to launch them we are extremely confident that we will finish #1 again next year.
Advertisers clearly agree.
As I mentioned in the upfront selling season that took place during the quarter CBS once again led the way in both total dollars and rate increases another positive sign for revenue later this year and in 2013.
Plus as we continue to diversify our revenue sources CBS' ownership in all 3 of our new fall dramas will present many more opportunities to monetize our content.
Let's take a brief look at some of these key developing revenue opportunities.
As you know one of the fastest-growing and most significant ways we are monetizing our content is international syndication.
Overseas the appetite for CBS-produced shows continues to be huge including programming from the CBS Television Network The CW and Showtime.
We held our international screenings in late May and there was a lot of excitement for our new shows particularly in Europe for Elementary which is our modern take on Sherlock Holmes; and also for Vegas which stars Dennis Quaid and Michael Chiklis.
Just as we've done in the past few years we're now selling these shows for millions of dollars an episode before they even air in the U.S.
And as we announced this week we're also expanding our international footprint with ownership positions in new CBS-branded cable channels across Eastern Europe the Middle East and Africa.
Just as we've successfully done in the U.K.
Australia and in India we are using our extensive library to gain equity in new ventures and opening up new forms of distribution for our programming and the CBS brand.
Meanwhile online streaming also continues to be a growing source of revenue.
You can see the effect of Netflix and Amazon have had on us and what our Hulu Plus deal has done for The CW as well.
I can tell you that interest in our content from all these new entrants to the marketplace is extremely high.
And not only here in the U.S.; the international marketplace for streaming content is extremely hot as well.
We're still in the early innings of this ballgame with many more deals to be done.
And as we move forward we'll continue to be prudent about making sure each new agreement is incremental to the overall revenue picture.
Retransmission fees and reverse compensation for our affiliates are also factoring more and more into our results.
It's important to point out that we continue to do deal after deal at very good terms without incident.
This is not to say we will never have a dispute that goes public but across the industry the marketplace is working and the few cases making all the noise are rare exceptions.
We will continue negotiating with distributors to realize the full value of our content and are confident there is significant upside ahead in doing so.
Each new deal means increased fees.
So from the CBS Television Network to syndication to streaming to retrans and reverse compensation we continue to increase the ways we get paid for our CBS content at every step of the way.
In addition to our Entertainment programming big-event sports broadcasts are increasingly valuable as well.
You're seeing this now with the Olympics.
And next year we anticipate having the largest television audience of the year maybe of all time when CBS broadcasts Super Bowl XLVII in February.
We have already sold more than 80% of our advertising in the game which is well ahead of where we were at this point 3 years ago and the spots are selling at terrific prices.
Plus we are looking forward to the unusual circumstances -- circumstance of broadcasting 3 huge events in prime time early next year.
The AFC Championship game the Super Bowl and the Grammys will all be broadcast on CBS in one 4-week period during the first quarter and will provide a powerful kickstart to 2013.
Meanwhile we continue to make steady progress at CBS News.
In fact every single one of our news programming -- programs is growing proving that eyeballs will follow quality programming.
Just last week the CBS Evening News with Scott Pelley averaged nearly 0.5 million more viewers compared to the same week last year and it remains the only network evening newscast to be up year-over-year.
CBS News also received 43 Emmy nominations last month more than double our nearest competitor.
At our Cable Networks segment Showtime continues to lead the way as we post stellar results quarter after quarter.
The strength of our original programming is driving increases in rates and subscribers which is now approaching the 22 million mark.
Next month we'd be premiering the highly anticipated second season of Homeland which recently received the most Emmy nominations of any new show and also Dexter which remains our top-rated series.
In addition we'll be debuting 2 exciting new dramas Ray Donovan and Masters Of Sex early next year.
We have ownership in both of those shows and going forward we will be increasing the Showtime content that we own whenever we can.
Turning to Publishing.
Simon &amp; Schuster continues to release some of the top-selling titles in the industry both in traditional and more and more in e-book formats.
Already this year we've had 185 New York Times best sellers with 22 of our titles making it to #1.
At our TV Stations we continue to do very well in prime time.
We're enjoying great success in our local newscast as well.
Ratings in our biggest 3 markets were up considerably during the May sweeps and all but one of our stations finished either first or second in late news across all of the O&amp;Os.
Clearly the local programming in our O&amp;Os are working and it's yet another key reason why we are able to achieve the growing retrans fees that we talked about earlier.
Meanwhile we expect political spending to accelerate throughout the third quarter into the fourth and right up to election day with record-breaking numbers.
In addition the automotive category continues to show very strong increases especially from the Japanese manufacturers which have once again begun spending at healthy levels and we're seeing good growth in travel and leisure as well.
At our radio stations we remain focused on the formats that are performing best especially news and sports.
We're particularly excited about the upcoming launch of our new CBS Sports Radio network which right out of the gate when we debut in January will be the largest major-market sports radio network in the nation with outlets in 9 of the top 10 markets.
This 24/7 network of sports radio stations will feature both national and local content and leverage the resources of CBS Sports our CBS Sports Network cable channel and content from our existing local sports radio stations.
Speaking of sports at Outdoor the London Olympics are boosting our ad sales in the third quarter.
We love to hear about all the people who are caught in large traffic jams and riding the tube as they look at our advertising.
Meanwhile here in the U.S.
our billboards and display business continues to perform well too.
And around the globe in the U.K.
Italy and domestically as well we continue to benefit from our more profitable renegotiated Outdoor contracts all the time.
Across our businesses you can see why we're pleased with our results and excited about our future.
We've been telling you for some time now that the steps we've taken to change our business model would have a big impact on our bottom line.
And as you can see once again they are.
And the good news is we will continue to reap the benefits of these changes for many years to come.
Remember as well that all of this is being accomplished in a macroeconomic environment that has been slow to recover.
The fact that we have such good positive visibility into our future is why we announced last week that we've expanded the value we are returning to shareholders.
And even with the larger buyback program and the increased dividend we still have headroom due to our very healthy levels of free cash flow.
Our confidence in the future is also why we believe we will achieve record results for the full year 2012.
Looking ahead given our success in the upfront the Super Bowl on CBS on our own station; several hits ready to be sold into syndication; retrans reverse comp and international all growing rapidly; and new entrants coming our way in online distribution we expect 2013 to be even better.
And we are very optimistic about our long-term prospects beyond that as well.
Thank you.
And now I'll turn it over to Joe.
Thanks Les and good afternoon everyone.
Today I'm going to provide some more details about our second quarter results.
I'll also give you an update on our recent financing activity and on our increased capital return announcement then I'll conclude with what we see for -- ahead for the back half of 2012 and 2013.
Let's start with the second quarter results.
As Les highlighted we delivered record profits in the second quarter the best single quarter since we became a standalone company in 2006.
We clearly benefited from the ownership of premium content and our ability to monetize it in both traditional and emerging platforms.
This is a strategy that we've previously laid out for you.
As you just heard revenue for the second quarter totaled $3.5 billion and the comparison versus prior year was impacted by the 2 noteworthy items Les mentioned.
The semifinal games of the NCAA Final Four occurred in the first quarter of this year and in the second quarter of last year.
And last year we made many of our library titles first available for streaming during the second quarter whereas an even larger availability was made during the first quarter of this year.
Combined these 2 items accounted for the entire difference in revenue between this year's quarter and last.
OIBDA came in at a record $901 million up 3%.
And our OIBDA margin expanded 2 percentage points to an all-time high of 26% again demonstrating the benefit of these growing new revenue streams derived from our premium content as well as our ability to control costs.
Operating income increased 5% in the second quarter to a record $769 million and our operating income margin also improved 2 percentage points to 22%.
And EPS hit an all-time high of $0.65 up 12% further demonstrating the strong operating leverage in the business.
Because of the timing of the 2 items that affected comparability in the second quarter looking at our year-to-date results gives you an even better picture of our underlying performance.
Through the first half of 2012 total revenue grew 4% to a record $7.4 billion and we had growth in every one of our key types of revenue.
Advertising grew 1% affiliate and subscription fees grew 8% and content licensing and distribution grew 13%.
Non-advertising revenue accounted for 39% of our total revenue during the first half of 2012 up from 36% a year ago.
This mix will be affected a bit during the second half of this year as political advertising and the London Olympics bolster ad sales.
But in the long term we expect non-advertising revenues which include retrans reverse compensation cable affiliate fees digital streaming and global syndication to outpace total revenue growth and make up a bigger portion of the revenue pie.
Also on a year-to-date basis OIBDA grew 16% operating income grew 20% and EPS increased 37% to a record $1.19 per share.
Let's turn to our operating segments.
Due to the timing of the 2 items we just mentioned Entertainment revenue was $1.7 billion down 7%.
The same 2 items accounted for virtually all of this delta.
Underlying advertising revenue at the CBS Television Network was comparable to the prior year.
Second quarter Entertainment OIBDA of $426 million was down just 3% again as a result of the 2 noncomparable items.
But because of our more profitable mix of revenue our Entertainment OIBDA margin expanded 100 basis points to 25%.
In our Cable Networks segment revenue for the quarter was $446 million up 8% driven by increases in rates and subscribers as well as growth in digital streaming revenue again a benefit of increased ownership of content.
Cable OIBDA was also up 8% to $190 million driven by revenue growth and the timing of certain expenses -- and certain programming and advertising expenses that we discussed during last quarter's call.
On a more meaningful year-to-date basis cable revenue was up 11% and OIBDA was up 21% and our cable OIBDA margin expanded 3 percentage points to 44%.
Turning to Publishing.
Second quarter revenue of $189 million was up 3%.
Sales of our more profitable digital books grew 44% and represented more than 20% of Publishing revenue.
OIBDA of $9 million was affected by the proposed settlement of the e-book litigation.
As we progress in putting this issue behind us we look forward to the continued growth in the profitability of this business as it shifts towards a more efficient distribution platform.
Local Broadcasting revenue of $704 million was up 2%.
TV Station revenue was up 6% and Radio revenue was down 2%.
The Radio revenue comparison was affected by the sale of the West Palm Beach radio cluster which closed on April 1.
Radio revenue for our top 10 markets was flat for the quarter.
Local Broadcasting OIBDA of $248 million was up 8%.
And the OIBDA margin grew 2 percentage points to 35% driven by growth in high-margin revenue and lower programming costs.
And finally Outdoor revenue for the quarter was $481 million down 2% on a reported basis as a result of the negative impact of -- on -- on foreign exchange rates.
On a constant-dollar basis revenue was up 1% for the segment with the U.S.
up 5% and Europe up 1%.
Outdoor OIBDA of $93 million increased 8% in the second quarter as we continue to benefit from our improved operating efficiencies and the elimination or renegotiation of unfavorable contracts.
Turning to cash flow and our balance sheet.
For the quarter free cash flow came in at $558 million and year-to-date free cash flow was $1.2 billion.
We continue to convert our profits into cash flow at a very efficient ratio because our businesses are not capital intensive.
We ended the quarter with cash on hand of $1.9 billion which included approximately $900 million of proceeds from our debt issuance in the second quarter.
We then used that $900 million after the quarter end to reduce debt.
We said during our last call we will continue to reduce our interest expense and bring our interest cost more in line with current rates.
In June we opportunistically refinanced $900 million of higher-rate notes with 2 new tranches of lower-rate debt reducing annualized interest expense by about $30 million a year.
Along with our first quarter refinancing we have reduced our annualized interest expense by more than $50 million a year and you will begin to see the full benefit of these actions later this year and into 2013.
As Les said we also continued to use our excess cash to return value to shareholders.
During the second quarter we retired 9.4 million shares of our stock for $301 million.
Since this repurchase program began in 2011 we have repurchased nearly $1.7 billion worth of stock to date retiring over 63 million shares at an average price of just over $26 per share.
Consistent with our commitment of returning value to shareholders last week which I'm sure you saw we announced an increase to our quarterly dividend rate by 20% and we upped our share repurchase program to $4.7 billion giving us $3 billion remaining now on the program.
We expect to complete this program over the next 10 quarters which would take us to the end of 2014 and represent an acceleration from our previous pace.
We are able to put this plan in place now because of the benefits of the ongoing transformation of our business model and the confidence and visibility we have in our cash flow going forward.
Now let me give you a few observations of what we see ahead for the rest of the year starting with Local Broadcasting.
We are seeing accelerating trends across the segment.
Local Broadcasting revenue is pacing to be up high single digits for the third quarter led by our TV Stations which are pacing to be up in the teens driven by political auto and the Entertainment categories.
Our Local Broadcasting segment is set to benefit from strong tailwinds over the coming quarters starting with political in the third and fourth quarters and then the Super Bowl in Q1 of next year.
Outdoor is pacing to be up high single digits for the third quarter on a constant-dollar basis benefiting from strong Olympic-related ad sales in London as well as continued growth in the U.S.
For Q3 Europe is leading the way and is pacing to be up in the teens.
At the CBS Television Network we are poised for a great start to the new season in late September when our new upfront pricing takes effect.
As you know we're always looking ahead so I'd like to highlight a few things we know about 2013.
To start the year we're set to benefit from the biggest prime time television event of the year Super Bowl XLVII and the pricing we are getting for these spots is record-breaking.
We also know we will have a strong year of revenue in content licensing and distribution.
At least 2 of our hit CBS shows will be going into first cycle syndication in 2013: NCIS: Los Angeles and The Good Wife.
In addition at Showtime we are building our library of content.
Just to give you a sense of the magnitude of what we will have available in the future for syndication: We will have 168 episodes of Dexter and Californication alone by the end of the 2013 season.
Also we continue to see upside to our streaming revenue and we have the ability to extend and expand certain existing deals.
We also know that we will see continued growth in retrans and reverse compensation revenue as we cycle through renewals on existing agreements.
In fact between now and the end of 2013 about 50% of our deals that cover our owned and operated stations will expire and we expect to adjust those deals to higher current market rates.
Also in 2013 we expect reverse compensation to cross the $100 million mark.
In addition we will continue to see benefits to our bottom line through lower interest expense lower D&amp;A expense and lower shares outstanding.
In summary our second quarter results illustrate the solid progress we've made towards de-risking our business model and driving growth in new high-margin revenue.
And we've done this while containing our cost structure resulting in record profits in OIBDA operating income and EPS that you're seeing today.
There's a lot more upside still to come as we continue to execute on this strategy.
For all the reasons you've heard today we believe we are set up for an even better year in 2013.
And with that Jason we can open the line for questions.
[Operator instructions] And we'll go first to Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'll ask my question and follow-up all in one shot just for [indiscernible] purposes.
Les a couple of years ago when you did the Netflix deal I think you said you sold about 7% of your library.
And everyone I think has a better sense for what online video looks like now.
I'm sure you guys feel like you've got a handle on sort of what's the right content to put in that -- on that platform how to price it.
What do you think the renewal looks like just from a big picture perspective? Do you think you'll increase the amount of content on there? Would you change sort of the kind of shows you put into the deal? And do you expect -- or do you just expect simply just to renew sort of the current offering but at higher prices? And then my follow-up is just on international.
I remember a couple of years ago you did Hawaii Five-0.
You screened that internationally to a lot of successful demand overseas and then it proved to be a domestic hit that led to syndication which is now coming up.
Do you look at any of the shows that you have coming in this fall? You mentioned Elementary and Vegas as being things that you think would be potential domestic syndication hits.
I know that sounds like we're talking about 2015 here but Five-0 got bought real quick.
I think it was 5 episodes then or something so I thought I'd ask.
Yes regarding -- let me deal with your 2 questions Ben.
Regarding obviously the Netflix deal the renewal is already preordained per se.
And you're right we have a better idea although the information is somewhat limited and somewhat preliminary on which shows are working and which aren't.
And as you can imagine some are working better than others.
It's good to have the Star Trek franchise I think that's something that works exceedingly well.
And some of the others don't work as well.
And I think frankly with Netflix our relationship is so good we will be adding titles such as CSI: Miami which just came off our schedule.
And we are working with them about increasing some and decreasing others.
And the overall bottom line will be we will get more money for this and we will have better visibility onto which shows will go into those packages.
Regarding the second question obviously we -- as stated we have great international sales already on the shows.
We own a number of them.
It's hard to tell what's going to come out big.
Elementary is very strong.
Vegas is very strong.
Obviously a couple of shows on CW.
In addition some of the shows on Showtime as well potentially can do that.
Elementary and Vegas are positioned.
They're both -- one's 10:00 Tuesday and one's 10:00 Thursday.
They're in very good position to launch very strongly.
Whether there's a marketplace -- I mean it's quite unusual to sell a show after 5 episodes but we're fairly certain with the modicum of success which we're expecting with both those shows that we'll get a very good domestic sale fairly quickly as well.
We'll go next to Jessica Reif Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on -- also on international.
Les you mentioned that you're increasing your footprint.
And I was just hoping that either you or Joe could tell us a little bit more about the Chellomedia deal how we should think about that opportunity.
And what percentage is international now of total revenue? Jessica it's Joe.
International is about 15% of total revenue right now.
And obviously again that's all international so that does include our Outdoor business.
I think we've said on just exporting content we've crossed over the $1 billion mark in just in sheer -- just U.S.
dollars.
Yes.
And the Chellomedia deal is -- it's actually fairly simple.
We already have the model worked out that we've done with them in the U.K.
where we have 4 channels with them where our content acted as our equity.
And once again it's content that wouldn't necessarily have been sold anywhere else.
And it's worked out extremely well.
So because of that deal we've expanded into 83 new channels.
Once again we haven't put up a dime we're putting up library content and some existing content that wouldn't be sold into territories such as Eastern Europe Middle East and Africa.
And we own 30% of these 83 channels that they previously owned.
So there's only upside for us in this.
And as I said if they work out as well as the other 4 did it'll turn out to be a very good venture.
Research Division</strong> And the second question is on retrans.
I know you said in the past that you'll do at least $250 million this year.
DirecTV said in their call that you guys are wrapping up your negotiations so you should have a good sense of how much you're going to get paid.
Could you give us any sense of how fast this number will grow? And when do you think that reverse comp really kicks in? Well Jessica it's Joe.
Well reverse comp we just gave you a number I think for 2013.
And I will tell you we're in the very early innings just because the deals don't expire.
Most of the deals for us expire kind of in the 2014-2015 cycle.
So what I will also add is some TV affiliates want to comp early so we are seeing that happen.
So that's a good fact -- pattern.
And yes obviously -- when we enter into the deal with DirecTV it will be a benefit to us albeit a small portion of 2012 but a big full year for 2013.
So we also laid out that again we expect this to grow pretty rapidly.
So you can see the size of these revenue streams they're starting to really get some size.
And the $250 million is a little bit conservative.
We'll go next to Michael Morris with Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two other questions on retransmission of course.
A popular topic.
But the first one is just kind of mechanical.
If you look at your content -- not content but subscription and affiliate revenue that you report for the entire company it still isn't seeing the ramp or the magnitude I would have expected to kind of hit that 250 number this year.
Can you talk about what the back half of the year looks like? Is this -- how steep is the ramp kind of on a quarterly basis as we work through 2012? And then I have a follow-up.
Yes.
I won't get too much specific but it does ramp Michael because deals kick in and start in the middle of the year in the third quarter.
So we're going to be getting those pricing benefits as those deals start.
So we do have to cycle through it.
So on an annualized basis clearly Q1 will be the lowest and Q4 will be the highest.
So I think you're going to continue to see that momentum build.
LLC Research Division</strong> So -- and when we think about -- we try to figure out 2013 of course 4Q which will be significantly higher than 1Q just based on what you reported that represents the run rate that you're looking at going into 2013.
Is that correct? Yes.
And look -- like I said but the run rate should and as Les just alluded to be higher than the $250 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question is a bit more open-ended but in light of the Aereo situation and kind of the failure of the broadcasters getting injunction there certainly the question comes up a lot more frequently with respect to the risk to the retransmission revenue stream over time.
So it is a bit open-ended but I'm hoping you can speak just a bit about how you're looking at that.
Obviously Comcast struck a long-term deal with you; they value it.
Other distributors talk about maybe trying to avoid their programming cost increases.
I'm just interested in your thoughts if you hear so much from them? Yes.
Well number one it does not affect any negotiations we have.
It is hardly even brought up.
And I don't -- we're very confident that our legal position's going to prevail.
It hasn't affected us in terms of one sub one deal one anything.
The minor loss we had served in the court was really -- it's not even the first out of the first inning basically.
We're sure we're going to prevail.
Throughout history our content has always gotten paid for so the people who have cried "Oh my god this could hurt retransmission " are really exaggerating greatly.
We -- it's not something I leave -- lose sleep over for even 5 minutes.
We think it'll go away.
We think we'll prevail in the courts.
We will always get paid for our content.
We'll take our next question from David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Guys two questions.
The first is can you give us a sense of the order of magnitude that you could see revenue contribution from the new Sports Radio network? And on the cost I just want to make sure I understand that -- I would think there's really no incremental cost to the content right? This is your own -- basically your own stuff that you're essentially syndicating.
And the second question is -- your op-ed syndication team has really sort of spoiled us for a while here giving us the lead time on the sales of the -- of some of your high-profile deals as referenced before.
But I think Good Wife while we're all sort of expecting a syndication I don't think the deal's been inked yet.
So could you give us a sense of what you think the timing around that could be? Yes go ahead.
Yes.
Sure.
David I'll start with the first one.
The CBS Radio network the sports radio -- the Radio Sports business is probably $150 million market.
So we're going to be large coming right out of the gate so it's all incremental.
It's not in dollars we play in today at the local segment so we expect to gain our fair share of that.
And you're right there's very little incremental cost for us.
We -- a lot of the talent and the content we're already producing so this made a whole lot of sense for us.
And with the outlook with Cumulus we do think it is a fantastic partnership with great content and great distribution.
So we do expect some upside again starting in 2013.
Yes and we -- I mean we have so many great sports properties and announcers and on-air personalities so it's great way to cross-market CBS Sports the Cable Network what we already have on Radio.
So you'll be seeing a lot of our already existing talent going on on the sport -- on the Radio network.
And as Joe said incrementally it's going to cost us very very little and there is a real upside to growing the business.
And syndication Good Wife? Yes.
In Good Wife you're right in that.
Good Wife is not sold which is not unusual.
I think the unusual was the NCIS: Los Angeles which was sold very early.
So we will be in the marketplace with that product.
Obviously it's a quality show and there's great demand for that so stay tuned.
We'll go next to Michael Nathanson with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple for Joe.
Joe just help me with the math on this for a second.
On Entertainment you had about an 8% step-down on expenses.
What drove most of that decline in expenses? Is that tied to the syndication sales from last year? The expenses I would say Michael is sports the timing of the NCAA.
The shift that we've talked about in the revenue obviously that is a lower-margin profit for us so that shifts into the first quarter.
That's probably one of the bigger drivers.
Research Division</strong> Okay and do you have any change -- are you still assuming the same kind of expense growth for that Entertainment segment for the whole year low single digits? Or is there anything to...
Yes I would say once you normalize all the noise and you just look at the way we manage cost at the Entertainment segment I think we've said and we're committed to low single digits.
We're able to manage our cost structure there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the last one will be on the broadcast update on your network.
You said it was relative -- it was close to flat but are you taking out NCAA in both quarters? Is that how you're looking at it? Yes.
Yes that's normalized.
Research Division</strong> Okay normalized.
We'll go next to David Miller with Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think you guys have said in the past that 2013 will be a very strong year for syndication.
Joe you obviously mentioned the 4 shows that are going to be hitting that cycle the syndication cycle in 2013.
As it applies to both domestic and international syndication in 2013 Joe would you say it's going to be more of a first-half-weighted story and a little weaker in the second half? Or would you say that that piece of business is going to be fairly smooth for you guys as we go throughout the -- all 4 quarters in 2013? Yes I would say it's probably actually second.
And just to be clear is we do have 4 shows.
But 2 of them we said very likely for 2013.
Blue Bloods and Hawaii Five-0 are set for the following year.
We'll be -- we do have flexibility in the timing of some of those deals but we're committed to 2 shows certainly going.
I would say David though the back half of the year.
Generally those happen in Q3 for domestic season -- as the new season starts.
That's not to say it can't happen earlier but generally speaking I would think that -- I would point you to the back half.
We'll go next to Doug Mitchelson with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So I'm going to do the same.
I'm going to ask a question and I'll also give you my unrelated follow-up right away.
Les if I heard you correctly you teased us with a comment that would -- that you'd update us soon with new digital offerings so any more clarity on that would be helpful.
Is this just offering the same off-the-air window to new entrants? Is this changing the windows or expanding rights? And then separately also for Les just given your experience I was hoping you could talk about what you're seeing in the scatter marketplace.
Is the 500 basis points or so slowdown that peers are seeing in 3Q ad growth normal relative to the Olympics impact? Is there anything -- any underlying softness in the scatter market that we should be concerned about? In -- Doug in terms of the new deals it's the combination thereof.
Obviously there are certain international markets that are opening up for streaming in addition to expansion of existing deals and some potential new players as well.
So it's coming from all sorts of places.
And there's a lot of activity put it that way.
In terms of scatter market once again in August we don't worry about the scatter market especially in a Olympic year and especially an Olympics that's doing this well.
And we've just sold such a great percentage of our inventory 6 weeks ago pretty upfront.
We're ready for the gun to go off in the middle of September.
The -- in terms of any softness I think it's all attributable to the Olympics and it's something that is totally fine totally business as usual.
We're really pleased with the increase in the pacing of local.
And in terms of the scatter for national it is a non-issue.
Research Division</strong> When do you feel like you'll have visibility on the fourth quarter or the new season? Does that sort of come in September when those off-scatter deals are done that you have confidence in what it's going to look like? Yes around then.
Around then.
That sounds about right.
When we speak to you next we'll know.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly sorry but so the off-air window that you currently use for online digital that's what we should expect to continue right? Yes.
We'll go next to John Janedis with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Les you touched on the streaming.
You guys -- you've taken CSI off the air.
Can you remind us of the timing of the put provision there? And then separately obviously one of your peers announced a spin to create shareholder value a few weeks back.
There's some speculation over time about your Outdoor business and the potential sale there.
Do you see any value creation from a spin of the Outdoor and Publishing assets if a buyer doesn't emerge? In terms of Outdoor we have always said we're not actively in the market to sell it.
A couple people asked to look at it and we said okay with the right offer.
And they talked about it openly.
So in addressing the question to the street we said "Look we are very pleased with how it's performing.
It's growing rapidly.
It's growing from where it was 3 years ago every successive year.
If somebody came along with the right price we would have to take a serious look at it." But there's -- so there's going to be no need for us to say anything in that we're happy operating it.
We really are.
And the CSI deal? Yes John on CSI it will be the third quarter.
We'll go next to Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on your comments on the strength of the Outdoor business in Europe in the third quarter around the Olympics.
Any sense how long those contracts are? Just trying to get a sense of how long that market may be a bit tightened.
And then another local question it's just on the good growth you're seeing in local TV.
Do you have any sense there about of how much is sort of core growth versus the political benefit? Alexia it's Joe.
On the Outdoor yes what we usually try to do is extend the Olympic season if you will.
Meaning push it beyond it and pull it some forward so I think there will be...
I think [indiscernible] would like to extend the Olympic season as well.
So I think you'll see some of that carry into the fourth quarter.
Then it will obviously trend down.
But on the TV side I mean just a couple of categories.
Our largest category is auto and auto is extremely strong.
So although political comes and goes and stuff but with the auto category strong that's a real good fact pattern for our Local Broadcasting segment.
We'll take our next question from Anthony DiClemente with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> One for Joe and one for Les.
Joe on the free cash flow trends you pointed out in the release that there's higher spend on content and higher income tax payments impacting free cash flow.
I'm trying to figure out is that just timing quarter-to-quarter? Is that sequential? Will that smooth out over the course of the year? Or is that -- are those more sustainable will those have an impact over the course of the full year? I think again in the timing Anthony for cash taxes is -- is you've got to remember we made a pension contribution last year on July 1 so we were able to lower cash taxes last year.
So clearly we didn't do that this year so that's the change in the taxes.
And on the programming side some piece of it is timing but some piece of it is obviously also incremental investment in ownership of the -- of our premium content in the shows that Les talked about at the studio and that will obviously pay off in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one for Les.
You -- I'm sure -- you may have seen that Apple TV added Hulu onto its platform this week.
I'm just wondering when you think about Apple are you in any way philosophically opposed to offering CBS on the Apple TV platform? And I know I -- just from prior experience I'm sure your answer will have something to do with getting paid for your content.
But more specifically is there anything you need to see or specifically anything you need to get in order to be convinced that that's a smart strategy for CBS? Look Anthony you've -- we've had this discussion many times before.
You're right it depends what the terms are it depends what we get paid for.
It depends on what effect Apple TV would have on either our advertising our syndication or our retrans which are our 3 main buckets of revenue for our content.
So if it sits in well like Netflix did and Amazon did we're happy to discuss it.
If it doesn't and we're -- they're using our content to build a business we're not quite as favorable to that.
So the devil is in the details.
I know it sounds like a pat answer but it's really true.
We'll go next to William Bird with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just talk about Radio and your thoughts in the business.
Clearly a lot of secular activity going on.
Is it something that you might consider as non-core at some point? We really love the Radio business.
We really do.
Look it provides plenty of free cash which helps us increase our dividend and buy back shares.
And it's -- we like the changes in the format.
It's a creative business.
And once again we're very pleased with the results.
We're changing our format as I mentioned to more news and sports.
And it's performing very nicely and we think with some of the new digital offerings it'll continue to grow.
So I would not absolutely say that it's not a -- a non-core asset.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-on.
Joe what was the diluted share base at quarter end and pro forma for the debt deals what's your cash balance now? Well we had $1.9 billion.
And I said that we picked -- took about $900 million so I'd say I'd estimate that bill at about $1 billion.
And the weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis for Q2 was 661 million.
Research Division</strong> How about at quarter end? Obviously less than that because that's the weighted average over the time.
So they're going to continue to trend down.
I think you can just assume as we buy it at -- you can put -- stick in the stock price the shares will continue to come down as we spend the $3 billion remaining on our program.
We'll take our final question from Marci Ryvicker at Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First on the Americas Outdoor Joe can you just reconcile the plus 2% constant dollar revenue growth in the press release with the plus 5% that you mentioned? Is the difference the Toronto contracts? Primarily.
Obviously South America and Canada Marci.
And obviously the loss of the contract contributed negatively.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for the third quarter we know Europe is pacing high teens.
How is the rest of international and how is the Americas pacing specifically the U.S.? Well we gave you total.
We said high teens for the whole business and we told you Europe in the teens.
So therefore I think by math the Americas have to be kind of mid single digits.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question.
There's been a lot of M&amp;A in the TV business some pretty robust multiples.
Any thoughts about pruning additional stations? We've always said we're a big-market television company and we have a few stations outside of the top 15.
So if the right offer came along once again we would absolutely look at it.
And this concludes today's call.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Have a great evening.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the CBS Corporation Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Teleconference.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to the Executive Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our third quarter 2012 earnings call.
Joining me for today's discussion are Sumner Redstone our Executive Chairman; Leslie Moonves President and CEO; and Joe Ianniello Executive Vice President and CFO.
Sumner will have opening remarks and will turn the call over to Les and Joe who will discuss the strategic and financial results.
We will then open up the call to questions.
Please note that statements on this conference call relating to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed in CBS Corporation's news releases and Securities filings.
A webcast of this call and the earnings release related to today's presentation can be found on the Investors section of our website at cbscorporation.com.
Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information related to this call can be found in our earnings release or on our website.
And with that it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Sumner.
Thank you Adam.
Good afternoon everyone.
Today I want to start by thanking the good people at CBS for their tremendous effort during Hurricane Sandy.
My thoughts go out to all those affected by the storm.
I'm really glad CBS was able to help along the way.
As far as CBS's results are concerned we have done it again another quarter of outstanding results on our way to another phenomenal year and I guarantee you the momentum keeps building.
I couldn't be more pleased.
Clearly CBS has the right strategy in place to take advantage of all the ways it can get paid for its industry-leading content.
I'm confident really confident that this success will continue in 2013 and for many many years to come.
My confidence is in no small part due to the talented executives at CBS who make it all happen.
Simply put Leslie and his team know how to get this done.
And so it's my great pleasure to turn this call over to my good friend and colleague a man I frequently call a genius for the extraordinary brilliant ways in which he has operated CBS.
And now I turn this over to Chief Executive Les Moonves.
Thank you very much Sumner.
Good afternoon everybody and welcome especially you on the East Coast that are suffering through this nor'easter yet again.
This certainly has been a monumental couple of weeks.
Hurricane Sandy has devastated many communities in the Northeast and ultimately affected all of us in one way or another.
We wish as quick a recovery as possible to everyone in Sandy's path.
And as a company we will continue to help in that effort.
I would like to acknowledge the sacrifice and effort of all the CBS employees involved with the relief help during this difficult time.
I also want to take a second to thank CBS News and our local TV and radio stations for their tireless work as well.
These news outlets did what broadcasters do in times like these.
They provided essential services to people in a way that can't be done by any other medium.
And of course last night we also had another historic event with the election.
It's been a difficult campaign.
But hopefully America can come together and we can now move forward.
Once again I want to point out the outstanding efforts by our terrific team at CBS News from primaries into the wee hours of this morning.
Now on to the business at hand.
As you can see in today's release CBS is continuing its streak of record-breaking results with all-time third quarter records in revenue OIBDA EPS and virtually all other key metrics as well.
The fact that we were able to achieve these results in an economy that is still recovering is a testament to the remarkable transformation underway at our company.
Our base businesses continue to be extremely solid performers and at the same time we're growing the size of our overall revenue pie by steadily increasing on non-advertising revenue as well.
During the quarter 44% of our revenue came from non-advertising sources a dramatic change from the less than 30% we had just a few years ago.
And the good news is there's still a long way to go in our evolution and that's why we're so encouraged about what we will accomplish in 2013.
Since we spoke with you about 3 months ago we've taken many significant steps to provide consistent sources of growth for the quarters and years to come.
First we signed key retrans deals with DirecTV Cablevision and AT&amp;T that together with our DISH deal earlier this year represent 40% of the footprint covered by our TV stations.
In total our new retrans deals were done on terms significantly higher than anything we've done before and will help us get to our stated revenue goals even quicker than we'd hoped.
We also signed a reverse compensation deal with one of our larger affiliate groups at significant increases as well.
Again we used to be paying them and now they're paying us.
And as we recently said our new target is to reach at least $1 billion of revenue from retrans and reverse comp by 2017 and we are confident that we will be there ahead of that.
Meanwhile before the fall season even started we sold our own shows into a very strong international marketplace.
This includes Elementary and Vegas each of which went for more than $2 million per episode making them immediately profitable franchises for us.
And we sold The CW's Beauty and the Beast another CBS Studios production for more than $1.5 million an episode as well.
We also signed a series of new streaming deals that again are additive to the overall revenue picture.
These include a new agreement announced this week with Hulu Plus for domestic streaming of our library content as well as new deals with Netflix International in the U.K.
Canada Latin America as well as in Scandinavia.
Once again we're taking advantage of all the new ways that people want to consume our content all over the world.
So from retrans to reverse comp syndication to streaming all of these key revenue opportunities are growing as we said they would plus we continue to get solid performance out of our core business.
In short we're doing exactly what we told you we'd do and as a result we've just produced record third quarter results.
We're going to produce record results for the full year 2012 as well and we set up the company to perform even better in 2013 and for a long long time after that as well.
Today I'm going to give you some more details about our third quarter results.
Then I'm going to discuss a few of the operating highlights across our businesses.
And after that I'll turn it over to Joe for his remarks and then we'll be happy to take your questions.
Once again we've set records in virtually all key financial categories.
These includes revenues -- revenue which grew 2% from last year to $3.4 billion; OIBDA up 7% to $898 million; operating income up 10% to $771 million; and adjusted EPS which was up 30% to $0.65.
So you can see that we have taken single-digit revenue growth and turned it into healthy double-digit profit growth and even better EPS.
And again these were all records for us.
Plus as we continue to build more steady and recurring revenue streams we are also successfully containing costs.
And nowhere is that better reflected than in our OIBDA margin which at 26% was also a record for us.
We continue to bring in healthy levels of free cash flow too.
We see no better use of our excess cash than buying back our stock and increasing our dividend.
Going forward as we continue to generate cash I am focused on looking for opportunities to increase both of these.
Now let's take a look at our company's performance in each of our businesses starting with Entertainment.
CBS continues to be the most watched network on television.
We once again have more than top 10 shows than all of the other networks combined and we currently lead our nearest competitor by more than 3 million viewers per night.
We have the #1 comedy with The Big Bang Theory the #1 drama with NCIS the #1 news magazine in 60 Minutes.
And our 2 new dramas Vegas and Elementary are the top 2 new shows of the season.
So we feel very good about our competitive position which is improving week after week.
Meanwhile this was clearly an unusual start to the season with most networks' ratings all over the place.
There are several factors at work here.
First and foremost people are watching more programming than ever but they are increasingly time shifting that content through the DVR streaming and video on demand.
Nielsen is doing a good job of finding ways to measure this viewing but not all of it is captured yet.
Comps are difficult because of a number of factors including debates in 4 consecutive weeks of the new season.
We now have the NFL on Thursday nights and on CBS last year we had an extraordinary start to the season on Monday night with the debut of Ashton Kutcher on Two and a Half Men.
As a result these early numbers that you're seeing are atypical.
We fully expect as the season goes on and when the season ends we will once again win in viewers in 25 to 54 and be right there in 18 to 49 as well.
Again the most significant development we're seeing is the increased levels of viewing via the DVR streaming and video on demand.
This is a good thing for us.
It means that more people are watching our programming in the situations where there used to be scheduling conflicts.
But it also means that you have to be more savvy when reading the ratings these days.
It now takes more time to determine the true performance of a show and in fact even a network.
As we look at DVR numbers we're seeing tremendous lift for many of the top shows on television.
In fact CBS has 11 of the top 20 DVR lifted shows.
During the C3 window many of our shows are being lifted by as many as 3 million and 4 million viewers.
And on top of that our DVR numbers for these shows increased by nearly another 30% when we look at 7 days of DVR viewing.
As we move forward we will make it a priority to get paid for all of the viewing that is going on across our shows including DVR viewing beyond C3.
This represents a significant opportunity for us that is still in the very early stages.
Just for some perspective on this several years ago we told you that we would monetize retrans and reverse comp in ways that would change our industry.
There were many skeptics.
Clearly we have delivered on that commitment.
You should now have full confidence that monetizing all of our viewing is a priority for us and will be a whole new part of our overall growth strategy in the quarters to come.
Plus there is significant upside in terms of the revenue we can generate from streaming through players like Netflix and Amazon all the new companies that are coming on the scene.
We have options to extend our current deals and we have new players looking to license our content as we speak.
In addition we are considering for the first time opportunities to license past seasons of current CBS and Showtime programming.
As you know we've been very careful about this and we are now confident that streaming these shows can represent significant incremental new high-margin revenue for us in 2013 and '14 too.
As we do this we are fully confident that CBS Television Network will continue to dominate.
Once again network television continues to have the biggest audiences anywhere and CBS continues to be #1 without any make good issues whatsoever.
And scatter demand remains very strong and is in fact now building.
Yes our pacing in network advertising is accelerating as we speak.
And as we head into the second half of the season our momentum will only be built.
Within a 4-week period in Q1 in primetime we will have the AFC Championship the Super Bowl and the Grammys.
Conservatively speaking we will have 170 million incremental viewers watching CBS during this time.
We will obviously get a big ratings boost when we broadcast these events and we will also have the world's best promotional platform to support our overall programming lineup for the rest of the 2013 season.
And speaking of the Super Bowl most of our inventory is already sold at extremely strong pricing.
Spots have gone for north of $4 million for 30 seconds.
And in New York alone we sold a spot on WCBS for just shy of $1 million.
Just think of that $1 million for a local spot in one market pretty incredible.
So as you'd expect the Super Bowl and the NFL overall continues to be an extremely hot ticket.
As we look ahead to the 2013 we also have a very strong round of syndication for leases to monetize.
The Good Wife NCIS: Los Angeles Blue Bloods and Hawaii Five-O will all hit the books within the next 2 years with 2 of these shows being sold in 2013 and the other 2 in '14.
And looking further down the road we expect to replicate this process with Elementary and Vegas as well.
Having the best content is also the key to our success at Showtime.
Since our last call Homeland became the first show in nearly 20 years to win the Emmy Award for lead actor lead actress best writing and best drama all in the same year a remarkable feat for a freshman series.
This show has unprecedented buzz and has picked up where it left off last year in terms of ratings.
In fact both Homeland as well as Dexter are up over last year's strong numbers.
And this past week they both had their highest ratings ever.
What's most important about the success of these shows is their ability to drive subscriber growth.
And Showtime has now reached 22 million subs.
The conversations with MSOs are a whole lot easier when you have a show like Homeland in your arsenal.
Going forward Showtime will be launching 2 new dramas and we have ownership in both of them.
Plus the production team behind 60 Minutes will be launching a new sports magazine on Showtime called 60 Minutes Sports in January as well.
By the way that's what I call synergy CBS News CBS Sports and Showtime all working together.
In Publishing digital sales now represent more than 20% of Simon &amp; Schuster's business and that percentage is growing year after year.
And as you could see in our results we're benefiting from the favorable economics of e-books with a Publishing margin that has now reached 19%.
Plus Simon &amp; Schuster continues to release new successful titles all the time.
So far this year we've had more than 276 New York Times bestsellers with 32 of them making it to #1.
Turning to our local businesses as I said earlier this has been a very active campaign season from the presidency to all the congressional races to the many prop initiatives that were on the ballot in California.
An unprecedented amount of money was spent this year.
All told we set a new record for the most dollars ever in a presidential election year.
And more so than in the past the dollars came in during the fourth quarter rather than the third.
So you'll see the benefit of that on our next call.
In addition Automotive which is our biggest category continues to be very strong and TV station pacing is accelerating overall.
Meanwhile our Television Stations continues to have success in the very lucrative late-night news time slot fueled by the strength of the CBS Television Network and by our 10:00 shows where we win on just about every night.
During Premiere Week 12 our major market stations ranked first or strong second in this time period.
In fact WCBS in New York had its highest news rating since 2009 and WBBM in Chicago had its best ratings in 8 years.
In Radio we took a significant step with our major market strategy with the acquisition of 101.9 which now gives us another strong signal in the nation's #1 market.
It has been renamed WFAN-FM and is now the FM home for what is already the #1 sports radio station in the country.
This new station will also be a key part of the CBS Sports Radio network that will be launching nationwide in January.
Speaking of sports the Summer Olympics helped drive strong results in our Outdoor international business in the third quarter.
Even with the challenging European economy our international division posted a double-digit revenue increase.
And in the Americas our U.S.
billboards and displays business pulled in another strong quarter and continues to grow.
So as you can see we have turned in another terrific quarter with record results across the board.
This is a direct result of the strategic steps we have taken to transform CBS as well as the blocking and tackling at our industry-leading core businesses.
After we post record results for the full year 2012 2013 will be even better.
Let me tell you specifically why we know that.
Ratings and advertising will grow.
We have the strongest possible kick start to the year with the 3 major primetime events that I mentioned.
These broadcasts will give us a huge boost in advertising and thanks to the promotional platform they will provide our ratings in the quarter after that will benefit as well.
We are very confident that our primetime ratings will continue to improve.
As the season goes on we will finish the season on top and very strong in every single one of the key demos.
Next we will increasingly monetize all of our ratings in all of our viewing.
Industry measurement is catching up with the changing habits of content consumption and this will be to our benefit.
Again these developments represent significant upside for us.
Syndication will drive next year as well.
We have the 4 big dramas I told you about coming in '13 and '14 and we keep replenishing our pipeline with CBS and Showtime content for future syndication sales domestically and internationally.
We'll also have more streaming deals that will be done in 2013.
As I mentioned we're now considering exercising our options to add library seasons of current shows into our streaming deals.
This could have a major impact on our results next year.
Finally we have 3 more retrans deals coming up in 2013 that together represent another 20% of our station's footprint.
These along with additional reverse comp deals coming up next year will drive us towards our goal of at least $1 billion by 2017 if not before.
And of course next year and every year we will continue to manage our business in a way that delivers maximum shareholder value to our investors.
That's what we've always promised to all of you and that's what we do.
Thank you.
And with that I'll turn it over to Joe.
Thanks Les and good afternoon everyone.
Today I'll provide some more details about our third quarter and then I'll talk about what we're seeing in the fourth quarter and 2013.
Let's start with our third quarter results.
As Les highlighted CBS's record results this quarter once again demonstrate the benefits of the steps we are taking to grow our revenue with a more diverse mix.
As we continue this shift you can see that the overall financial performance of our company is becoming less cyclical and more profitable.
For the quarter as you heard we delivered record revenue of $3.4 billion an increase of 2%.
Let's take a look on how that breaks down.
Content licensing and distribution was up 8% and affiliate and subscription fees were up 12%.
The continued growth in these contractual revenue streams more than offset lower summer advertising dollars.
The progress we have made in growing our recurring revenue sources has never been more apparent than this quarter with advertising accounting for just 56% of total revenue.
As we said before this revenue mix may shift a bit during the next 2 quarters as we gain more political and Super Bowl advertising dollars.
But we expect the overall trend towards more non-advertising revenue to continue.
Also during the quarter as Leslie said our continued focus on cost controls along with our high-margin revenue growth translated into record profits and margins.
Our OIBDA margin of 26% was our best ever.
Adjusted EPS in the third quarter came in at a record $0.65 up 30%.
This excludes a loss of $0.05 per share on the early extinguishment of debt that we told you about during our last call.
The story for our year-to-date performance is very consistent with our third quarter results with records across nearly all of our key financial metrics.
This includes year-to-date revenue of $10.8 billion up 3% with growth in every single segment; year-to-date OIBDA of $2.6 billion up 13%; year-to-date operating income of $2.2 billion up 16%; and year-to-date adjusted EPS of $1.83 up 35%.
Now let's turn to our operating segments.
Entertainment revenue for the third quarter was $1.7 billion up 3% driven by growth in global content licensing and higher retrans fees.
Entertainment OIBDA of $384 million was down $21 million.
This decline was due in part to the timing of P&amp;A costs for 2 film releases this fall versus no releases a year ago.
In our Cable Networks segment revenue for the quarter was $436 million up 4% driven by continued steady growth in rates and subscribers.
Cable OIBDA increased 12% to $227 million driven by revenue growth and the benefit of increased ownership in original Showtime content.
Turning to Publishing third quarter revenue was $210 million down 5% because of a decline in the sales of traditional print books.
However more profitable digital sales were up 20% for the quarter and now represent 21% of total Publishing revenue.
Publishing OIBDA of $39 million was up 3% for the quarter demonstrating the improved profitability of this business as it shifts towards a more efficient distribution platform.
This was also the reason that Publishing's OIBDA margin expanded from 17% to 19%.
In Local Broadcasting third quarter revenue of $661 million was up 1%.
TV Station revenue was up 7% and Radio revenue was down 5%.
Political dollars definitely shifted from the third quarter into the fourth as campaigns chose to spend their dollars closer to the election.
Local Broadcasting OIBDA was $213 million up 16% for the quarter.
And the OIBDA margin grew 4 percentage points to 32%.
The expanded margin was due to the higher-margin revenue lower programming costs and the benefit of a new long-term music royalty agreement.
And finally Outdoor revenue for the quarter was $486 million up 2% on a reported basis.
On a constant dollar basis revenue grew 5% led by Europe which was up 14% driven by the Olympic Games in London.
In the U.S.
our billboard and display businesses were also up 5%.
Outdoor OIBDA of $99 million increased 24% in the quarter also driven by the Olympics.
In addition this business continues to benefit from improved operating efficiencies as well as the elimination of unfavorable contracts.
You can see the results of these efforts in our Outdoor OIBDA margin which expanded 300 basis points to 20%.
Turning to cash flow and our balance sheet.
For the quarter free cash flow payment of $163 million compared to $29 million last year.
Both of these figures were affected by special items including this year's debt refinancing and the discretionary pension funding from a year ago.
Year-to-date free cash flow was $1.3 billion.
Also for the quarter you can see interest expense declined to $95 million from $110 million a year ago reflecting the benefit of the debt refinancings we did this year.
In addition we remain consistent with the accelerated pace of our share repurchase program in the third quarter using $300 million of our authorization to retire 8.6 million shares.
We have $2.8 billion remaining on the program as of September 30.
And also we had $947 million of cash on hand at the end of the third quarter as well.
Now let me give you a few observations about what we see in Q4.
We're seeing accelerating trends across the Local Broadcasting segment which is pacing to be up double digits for the fourth quarter.
This is led by our TV stations which are pacing to be up 20-plus percent driven by the surge in political spending.
Outdoor Americas is pacing up low single digits offset by declines in Europe because of the continued economic challenges in that region.
And at the CBS Television Network scatter trends remain healthy with fourth quarter pricing up in the mid-teens over the most recent upfront.
So with 2012 set to be a record year we are focused on delivering an even better 2013.
Les told you about the key factors that will drive our results next year.
Let me tell you where you're going to see them in our key types of revenue.
In content licensing and distribution we will see a significant increase in revenue as 2 of our hit shows go into first cycle syndication.
Streaming revenue will also benefit from renewals and extensions on existing deals.
So this year's streaming revenue will be bigger than last year and next year's will be even bigger than this year's.
In affiliate and subscription fees we know we'll see continued growth in cable affiliate revenue retran and reverse compensation.
Between the retrans deals coming up and the reverse compensation we expect next year we will approach the halfway mark to that $1 billion in revenue that we spoke about earlier.
And in advertising as you know we are set to benefit from the Super Bowl which will hit both our Entertainment and Local Broadcasting segments.
In addition we will benefit from higher pricing as a result of our upfront CPM increases.
And we will have 17 more hours of primetime inventory in 2013 that we didn't have this year due to the political coverage not to mention an increased share of summer ad dollars without an Olympics in 2013.
So all 3 key types of revenue content licensing and distribution affiliate and subscription fees and advertising will be strong next year.
At the same time we will continue to be vigilant about our costs as we always look for ways to improve productivity.
And we will also be improving our bottom line from lower interest expense lower depreciation and amortization expense and lower shares outstanding.
And of course capital returns to our shareholders in the form of share buyback and dividends will remain our key priority.
So what you can expect from CBS in 2013 is more of the same and then some.
And with that Gwen we can open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Benjamin Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Les I want to ask about you the TV viewing numbers we're seeing since obviously everyone's focused on them not just for the industry but for CBS.
The 3 areas that I think are sources of leakage in the Nielsen ratings would be VOD where the ad loads aren't the same; DVR viewing after 3 days; and then sort of streaming on players like TV.com and now your Hulu Plus deal.
How do you address all of those? And how quickly can that get taken care of? Because it's obviously something that's impacting the business.
And then I have one follow-up for Joe.
Yes clearly Ben we've been heading in this direction for a long time.
We have seen this coming.
DVR usage has been growing.
And obviously streaming is sort of a pretty new as is a VOD.
And some of it we're getting paid for.
Look the majority of DVR viewing is in the first 3 days which is good and we're pushing to get it to be -- to 7 days.
And we think that's going to happen within a relatively short period of time as well as that.
Streaming once again we are getting paid for it on cbs.com.
We're making all these deals.
And VOD is going to get there as well.
So as I said it's a different way of looking at our world.
But once again when you add all these elements together financially it is a positive for us.
And once again you have to stop -- people have to stop looking at overnight ratings because it's really a very very different ballgame than it ever was.
And once again we are encouraged because more and more people are absorbing content and we're going to get paid more and more.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then Joe just a separate topic.
You mentioned depreciation and amortization.
It's down in the quarter year-on-year.
When I look at the cash flow statement your CapEx is running at like $150 million year-to-date versus D&amp;A of $390 million and I think everyone knows CBS generates more free cash flow than GAAP earnings.
How long does it take for that to close? And should it close all the way? Yes it'll definitely close Ben.
It'll take a few years because when you depreciate some -- it's usually our useful life is kind of on a 5- to 7-year average life cycle.
So we've been on there -- at this for a few years now.
So I think over the coming years you'll see that continually step down.
I think we do kind of give some kind of forward disclosure in our 10-Q and K filings to help you.
But it'll take a couple of years but it's going to converge down with our kind of lower capital spending over the years.
We'll take our next question from Jessica Reif Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
Is there any limit what you can put through Netflix any other SVOD players? I mean besides the CBS shows are there other shows that can go in? You mean besides the CBS-produced shows? Research Division</strong> Meaning -- no no no like -- no no no not the CBS.
I meant like Showtime shows or -- besides the network shows.
But you mentioned library.
Yes I mean Showtime actually was one of the first precursors.
They had Dexter on Netflix before we even made our CBS deal.
So yes we have deals in place potentially down the line for shows from Showtime from CBS and The CW.
So -- and then once again once again the only deals we've made so far are about 7% of our library content.
And then we just added CSI: Miami to that mix since we took it off the air in May.
So frankly the sky's the limit in terms of availability and our ability to grow our deal with Netflix.
Research Division</strong> So as the second part of that question but not my second question to be clear how high can Entertainment margins go? Well Jessica look we're definitely investing in content as we are owning more and more of the content.
So clearly it builds and you can see that kind of as the overall company but just look at the overall margin.
Again I always like to focus people on looking at margins more in a year-to-year basis year-to-date basis as opposed to a quarter.
But clearly these are high-margin revenue dollars that will continue to expand.
Okay.
And now you can ask your second question.
Research Division</strong> And now I can ask my real second question.
So the second question is when you guys talked about both of you Les and Joe you talked about 2013 drivers I didn’t really hear Outdoor or Radio being a driver.
Can you talk about the long-term strategy? Do you really need to hang on? And if you don't need to hand on to them can talk structurally what you guys are thinking of? Go Joe.
Yes well I'll take it.
Yes.
Look I think from a Radio perspective it's absolutely producing content.
Sports and news it's key to the overall CBS strategy.
We have a large market focus so I think it fits very nicely.
Obviously we like the margins.
Obviously these brands are going online and it's living outside of just the local region.
So we're very bullish on Radio and as well as Outdoor.
So Outdoor we know there's lots of interest in Outdoor.
We understand what some of our peers are doing.
We're definitely considering all options for it.
But again there is a lot of focus on it because I think everybody sees the value that we see.
And we'll go next to David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
I guess the first one is with respect to your commentary on selling current series’ past seasons into online distribution potentially what was your thought process there? What made you arrive at this point today where you think you might be ready to do it? And more importantly what do you think the monetization of that kind of content would be? Do you think it's similar to the kind of levels you're seeing in traditional syndication for that same kind of content? And the second question is can you walk us through 2 things with respect to sort of ratings and ad growth? The first is that the C3 ratings progression over the first couple of weeks of the season.
So have we seen improvement in ratings? And as a progression do we expect to see that to continue? And second can you talk a little bit about maybe ad revenue pacings at the network for the quarters just to give us a sense of -- we see these ratings numbers and I don't think -- I think the correlation between ratings and revenue is a little bit lacking and so maybe you could kind of help us see that one more clearly.
All right David.
In terms of -- it is definitely a shift for us.
And you know what we've looked at the results from Netflix and Amazon we're getting more and more information from streaming on our own sites.
And in certain cases we have come to the conclusion that streaming of previous seasons of certain shows will actually give benefit to it as it has been with syndication.
As we saw with NCIS when it went to syndication ratings went up; Big Bang ratings went up.
So we're now taking a look.
And as you know Netflix really likes -- would like to do that and we have deals in place for previous seasons at very good rates.
So it is looking like it is very attractive obviously for the bottom line as well as we think it will be a help to the network not a hindrance to do that.
What that could mean? It could mean tens of millions of dollars.
It can be the equivalent or even better than or part of syndication.
In other words like we do internationally.
You take a show and you look at slicing and then dicing it in very very different ways than you ever did before and it's great that now you have 12 revenue streams instead of just basic fast fall down the middle to syndication.
Regarding the C3 progression going to your second question we absolutely -- as I said there a lot of factors that influence the start of the season.
There was a lot of political things going on and we have seen it grow.
Frankly the numbers have grown from that and C3 is becoming a bigger part of our universe.
And when you see these numbers as I said 3 million 4 million viewers added to a number 1.5 points added to an 18 to 49 number they are substantial and they are growing and more and more people are doing that.
And that's especially potent when it comes to the 10:00 shows because 10:00 shows people go to sleep but they may watch that 10:00 show the next day.
And we're finding it -- you look at Monday night and you see there are 3 10:00 shows that are actually working on all 3 networks and they all are benefited greatly by a C3 number which is very high.
And that's Hawaii Five-O for us Revolution and Castle on ABC.
And in terms of the ad pacing once again as Joe mentioned we are seeing mid-teen growth in the scatter market.
Add that to the high single digits that we got in the upfront and you're looking at substantial growth numbers as we head into the fourth and then the first quarter which is why we're optimistic and why we stated our pacing is actually growing and it's getting more and more intense.
So looking forward the rest of the season should be terrific.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Les ad revenue you're expecting to be positive in the fourth quarter at the network? Is that what you're saying? Yes yes.
We'll take our next question from Anthony DiClemente with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
One is I just want to hear a little bit about the new retrans deals that you talked about in your comments.
I think you said AT&amp;T DirecTV Cablevision.
What is kind of the timing of when those start to hit? I'm just wondering as we kind of model out retrans and reverse comp how -- what the cadence of those new revenues look like.
And is there any point where we should see more of an acceleration? And then just a little bit anything on color -- on background on how those conversations go and kind of what those deals look like? And then my second question is just around this kind of new topic today on current release sales of your content.
Just to clarify what would be the monetization vehicle? Would it be -- would those be kind of lumpy onetime content revenues? Or would that be like a revenue share for example like with the Hulu? Because I do remember one of the issues on that was your sales force and being able to -- if it is selling advertising against currently leased programming the idea of relinquishing the sales process to an online distributor.
I'm just wondering how that will all work.
So if you could comment on those 2 I'd appreciate it.
I'll give you a little color on the retrans and Joe will go to the number.
Look we have a lot of power.
The NFL gives us a lot of power.
In addition as I mentioned having Showtime is great.
So the conversations were heated.
They were intense.
But we're happy we didn't have to pull our signal and cost ourselves any money.
Did Jimmy Dolan and I deal directly? Yes quite a bit quite a bit and it was a good conversation.
As you can imagine there was wrangling.
The same thing in all of the conversations but we came out very well.
Joe why don't you talk about...
Anthony when they hit is usually again -- as soon as we sign the deals they're usually effective immediately.
So there's obviously -- we can't talk about anything specific but obviously we see the value of the long-term deals and there are escalators in them.
And as far as the past seasons of current shows for instance a CSI or something like that that’s been sold through yes the revenue recognition does get lumpy.
But usually again it's over periods of time and then they have to kind of re-up to extend those.
So again it kind of continues.
So we look at it more as an annuity but it does get a little lumpy in the way the accounting rules work.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just online ad sales against your current release programming can you just talk about that? We have -- obviously we've put them up on cbs.com and the shows that we own and...
Yes and we monetize them at CPM rates higher than -- as high as the network.
So...
And with full ad loads.
With ad loads yes.
So we're fully monetizing on that.
Yes and that's growing every day.
We'll take our next question from Michael Morris from Davenport &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first one is on your advertising trends day parts other than prime.
We have a lot of focus on prime and the ratings there.
I think that that’s about 1/2 your ad revenue.
I'm curious as to number one sports and the NFL.
Are you seeing the growth? Are you seeing better growth at the NFL than you're seeing in kind of these primetime ad pacings you're talking about? Also we're seeing some more NFL content in prime with the later starts on the East Coast and the AFC Championship Game in prime later this year.
So if you could comment on the sports and also just kind of daytime news what you're seeing there.
And then second just over on the streaming deals it's a hot topic for us obviously but how much of the streaming revenue is coming specifically from Netflix as you look forward and you say 2013 is bigger than 2012? And really the root of my question is there's some concern that at some point Netflix can't continue to increase their content payments.
Your thoughts there would be appreciated.
I'll deal a little bit with the first part and I'll have Joe do the streaming.
In terms of sports it's still the hottest ticket in town specifically the NFL.
It's selling very well at every single network.
Our ratings are up a couple of points from a sensational year last year.
You're not seeing -- that's the part of the universe that streaming doesn't come into play.
Live sporting events is still huge and yes the pacing is even better far better than it is even for primetime.
So we're very excited and we wish the NFL lasted for 32 weeks instead of 17.
And once again having the AFC Championship and the Super Bowl we're able to put together some pretty compelling packages.
Daytime pacing once again it's -- I wouldn't call it as robust as prime but it's doing extremely well.
We make -- once again our daytime programming makes significantly more profit than it made a couple of years ago.
News once again has been a very active season.
And the good news for both of our key news franchises Scott Pelley's numbers are up considerably and the Morning is up a lot as well.
So we're really pleased with what we're doing there.
Mike as far as streaming obviously we have deals with Netflix Amazon Hulu Plus and a lot of others that are talking about the marketplace.
I think what we rest assured is that consumers want to consume content this way.
So I think it's going to find its home.
Obviously we look at Netflix's financials as well when we do deals with them.
But they're very successful and they have a huge installed base.
So there's lots of value there.
But again I think it's really being driven by consumer demand.
LLC Research Division</strong> And so this putting the prior seasons of currently on-the-air shows that's not just a Netflix-type of arrangement that's across a number of these partners or...
Yes we can do that again across the board.
Again the great news is all these deals are non-exclusive.
But once again we're not going to take the entire schedule and put it on.
We're going to pick and choose the shows that we think a are already sold into syndication; or b we think that could help us in terms of raising the ratings on the network.
So -- but once again when you look at what we have on the air and all the seasons that are not streamed that could be a sizable amount of money over the next couple of years.
And we'll go next to David Miller with Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just have one question for Les.
Les you mentioned the ratings issues.
You mentioned sort of the NFL network the debates DVR viewing et cetera as somewhat of a culprit here.
I'm surprised I didn't hear you say anything about sampling of new shows across the other networks -- or the other broadcast networks I mean.
And the reason I cite that is because I think it was the fall of '08 could've been the fall of '07.
I think it was the fall of '08 where -- no one really remembers this because the fall of '08 we obviously had other problems.
The world was basically ending.
But if I recall on the fall of '08 there was a lot of sampling of other new shows on ABC NBC Fox et cetera.
And eventually viewership kind of came back to you at around this time of year.
It was around early November.
Are you seeing that at all? It seems like you might be just especially in light of your commentary about the strength of the scatter market.
Yes I mean look the early part of the year is always about sampling.
People have spent the whole summer some of them spent the Olympics promoting new shows and people want to try them out.
This past week we had our highest-rated week ever.
This is the first -- this is the week that we were comparably better than a year ago in just about every demo -- I think in every demo.
So what happens is they do go out and sample.
And guess what's winning Wednesday night at 10:00 in every single demo? Year '13 of CSI by a lot okay against 2 new shows 2 new shows heavily promoted.
So you know what the stability of CBS is coming to the forefront much now -- much more now than in the opening couple of weeks of the season.
So I didn't bring it up because it's sort of the same thing every year.
We'll go next to Laura Martin with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could you give us an update on film and remind me what the allocation of capital is towards the film business in 2013 Les? And then for you Joe Fox was kind enough to tell us that political advertising in the third quarter was $40 million positive swing for their station and I know it sounds like most of yours is coming in the fourth quarter.
But could you size for us over the course of 2012 what you think the political is going to come -- or came in at actually? Yes.
Laura on film we will have released 4 movies this year.
'13 it looks like there's going to be 3.
Once again all of these are very low-budget releases once again not a great deal of exposure that really affects anything.
As Joe said look we had P&amp;A on 2 movies within a 3-week period of time and last year we had 0.
So it did affect that.
But there is -- it's really very minimal.
And Laura on political just to give you some context in 2008 the last presidential we generated $140 million total over the full year.
We're going to significantly beat that.
So -- and again more of that than normal is coming in in the fourth quarter.
So we're still tabulating those dollars as we speak here today.
And we'll go next to Doug Mitchelson with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Les I wanted to take a step back and shift the ratings discussion to TV schedule management.
You know I agree with you regarding all of the unusual factors so far this season.
So let's say CBS now or at some point in the future does have quite a few aging shows.
Does the breadth of strength across your schedule go from sort of an important advantage to a disadvantage in sort of 2 areas? First challenge is you have a profit incentive to keep shows in the air right even when the ratings decline because you might make a lot of money on those shows international syndication plus a lot of your -- any shows you have in decline might still be higher rated than your competitors' shows right? And that sort of leaves the second challenge.
You've got so few open spots to try and launch 2 hit shows.
If you get to the point where you need to be ramping development maybe you need more than 1 or 2 hit shows a year.
You need 2 or 3 or 3 or 4.
You have a lack of shelf space.
So I know it's strange to be asked if you were too successful in the past but I'm curious how would you approach those? I never mind being called too successful.
That's okay.
No look scheduling still does matter.
And yes is it harder to get on our schedule than everybody else? Absolutely.
As a matter of fact last year when we canceled Unforgettable one of the papers said which is true CBS just canceled a show that was higher-rated than any other show at one other to-be-named-later network.
Now we canceled it and ironically Sony came back to us and we're now putting it on the summer.
We're going to be doing more summer programming.
Plus you know what our development costs basically are the same year after year.
We really don't cut way back.
The only year we cut way back was the year of the strike.
So we will keep that going.
And once again we have always pulled our shows off a year early.
I could have kept CSI: Miami on but we pulled it off to make room for a Vegas or an Elementary and that's what we did.
We took CSI: Miami.
We moved Mentalist from Thursday to Sunday and we put Elementary in there which looks like it's going to be a brand-new hit franchise for us.
So look I still look at the schedule every day.
I'm still paying attention to it.
We still are in full-scale development.
And I think you have to look at the television universe in totality.
Network ratings profitability are all important but as you know we like having high ratings.
Research Division</strong> So if I try to put a fine point on it Les would you say at this point that you're worried at all that you have too many shows that are aging at the same time? Or do you still feel like this is an overall healthy schedule? We have the 2 highest-rated new shows of last year in Person of Interest and Two Broke Girls; highest-rated new drama highest-rated new comedy.
I think we have 2 keepers from this year.
So our schedule is still filled with a lot of young shows mixed in with so many hits.
Blue Bloods is only 3 years old.
Hawaii Five-O is only 3 years old.
NCIS: LA is 4 years old.
So there is a lot -- Good Wife is 4 years old.
There's a lot of youth in the schedule.
Just because we have Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig it doesn't mean that we don't have the up-and-coming young rookies too.
And we'll go next to Tuna Amobi with S&amp;P.
So one for Joe and one for Les.
So in regards to the Olympics it seems like it was a net benefit to the company given the lease in Outdoor segment.
Can you perhaps comment on any impact on the network and how -- what changes that you made there to mitigate the impact there? And for Les I was wondering if you could comment about the noise around ad hopping.
I guess specifically are there any scenarios where you might consider trading off advertising revenues if you felt that you could be adequately compensated by pay TV affiliates that are pushing such ads keeping functionalities given particularly that your business mix is positively moving in that direction anyways? Any comments there would be helpful.
Okay Doug I'll start.
With the Olympics clearly the international Outdoor business benefited by that.
We were the premier Outdoor advertiser there.
So obviously with a weak macro backdrop we were able to post those results.
We don't break out specific numbers.
And as far as here in the States it was highly rated here.
We've generated some ad dollars.
But good for that.
And again we'll have an easy comp next year and we're focused on this season and going forward.
So not possible -- so quite a side impact on the network Joe I’m assuming right? Tuna it's hard to say exactly what the ad dollar shift would have been in dollars in the third quarter.
Yes I mean look did it affect our ratings? Sure but not substantial and we've anticipated it.
And it happens every couple of years.
They have the Olympics and no big deal.
And on your second question regarding the ad hopping the fact of the matter is we produce content and we need to get paid for it.
I suppose if DISH wanted to pay us $5 a sub we might consider letting them do that.
So that would be the alternative to that but under the current circumstances they can eliminate our ads.
We'll take our last question from Alan Gould with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I've got a couple of questions.
First on the retrans deals you said 40% of your footprint has been done this year.
Can you give us the average length of those retrans deals? And Joe you did mention escalators.
Are those escalators inflation? Or are they significantly even greater than inflation? Well Alan I’d say inflation isn't too high.
So we don't like carrying the inflation.
So we never put inflation in.
We prescribe what the rates are.
We don't like to rely on somebody else to determine what increases the revenue we have.
What was your other question? Research Division</strong> Well can you give the average length of those 4 deals? Look we like the deal shorter because again we like to kind of go back at them again.
We're open to doing longer-term deals.
But you've got -- the terms have to be right and I think that's important.
But on average the kind of plus or minus 5 years I think is a safe bet.
But like I said we're willing to bet on our content and bet on ourselves.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Les you mentioned in your comments that there's no make good situation.
I realize the season's early but you're only getting paid on C plus 3 [ph] not the other items.
Can you just explain how C plus 3 [ph] even if you adjust for the Ashton Kutcher effect the halo effect and others still running down say 10%? Yes.
Number one most of that 10% is based on one night.
And we feel like and our advertisers agree that this is going to go away over the next few weeks and as we head into the beginning of the year.
So there's no payback necessary.
Once again it's not a cut and dried system where if you've missed the number they realize by the end of the year we will be fine so there's no make goods.
Thanks Alan.
And this concludes today's call.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Have a great evening.
Thank you everyone.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the CBS Corporation Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Teleconference.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to the Executive Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good afternoon everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2012 earnings call.
Joining me for today's discussion are Sumner Redstone our Executive Chairman; Leslie Moonves President and CEO; and Joe Ianniello Executive Vice President and CFO.
Sumner will have opening remarks and will turn the call over to Les and Joe who will discuss the strategic and financial results.
We will then open the call up to questions.
Please note that during today's conference call the fourth quarter and full year 2012 profit measures will be discussed on an adjusted basis unless otherwise specified.
Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information related to this call can be found in our earnings release or on our website.
In addition statements in this conference call relating to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involves risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed in CBS Corporation's news releases and securities filings.
The webcast of this call and the earnings release related to today's presentation can be found on the Investors section of our website at cbscorporation.com.
With that it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Sumner.
Thank you Adam.
Good afternoon everyone.
Once again I'm more than proud of the results that CBS is reporting today.
We are truly on a roll.
The company is in a position of great strength.
I am confident our strategy will keep us at the top of our game for many many years to come.
The reason of course I'm so certain is because of Leslie and his superb management team.
They continue to lead CBS into a bright future.
And now to tell you more I'm going to turn it over to my very good friend a man I frequently and properly call a super genius Les Moonves.
Thank you very much Sumner and good afternoon everybody.
Welcome and happy Valentine's Day to you all.
Throughout last year we told you that we would post record results in 2012 and I'm pleased to report that we did.
Not only for the year but for the fourth quarter as well.
In fact we had our best fourth quarter ever in all profit measures including OIBDA operating income and EPS.
Our sources of high-margin growth are hitting on all cylinders and as a result we are driving earnings like never before.
As our company evolves we will continue to build momentum propelling us to even greater heights.
2013 is going to be an even better year with significant growth in retrans significant growth in reverse compensation significant growth in digital streaming significant growth in domestic and international syndication and our base businesses will grow even stronger led by the CBS Television Network which is #1 in viewers in every single key demographic.
And we expect to remain that way for the rest of the season.
All of these areas of growth are built upon the enduring strength of our premium content.
In addition as you are aware we have announced a pair of very important initiatives regarding our Outdoor segment that will speed the transformation of our company into one that is even more built on steady recurring revenue streams.
First we're selling our Outdoor operations in Europe and Asia which is attracting significant interest.
And at the same time our Outdoor Americas business is in the process of being converted into a REIT which will greatly unlock the value of this business for our shareholders.
Because of all these factors and the great confidence we have in our businesses we announced plans today to immediately repurchase an additional $1 billion of our stock.
This accelerated share repurchase will nearly double our previous commitment for the year.
In addition when we conclude our Outdoor initiatives we also intend to use that currency to return additional capital to our shareholders.
It should be clear that returning value to investors remains a top priority for us.
And today's news is further proof of that.
As I mentioned we have great confidence in the future because all the key pillars of our growth strategy are performing just as we said they would.
Last month we announced another retrans agreement on very attractive terms with Charter Communication.
This deal includes our own station as well as carriage for Showtime Smithsonian and our fast-growing CBS Sports cable network.
Just like our previous agreements each new deal we make is better than the last.
And as a result we are looking at significantly higher retrans revenue in 2013.
Plus we remain ahead of our target of hitting $1 billion in revenue from retrans and reverse comp by 2017 if not sooner.
Just yesterday we announced a renewal and expansion of our agreement with Amazon to stream a large amount of library programming.
And we also announced this week a separate deal with Amazon to license our upcoming summer miniseries Under the Dome.
This was a unique opportunity to subsidize a summer serialized show in a whole new way.
However you slice it streaming is becoming a very important revenue source for us with tremendous upside.
I can tell you there is fierce competition out there for all of our content and the marketplace continues to develop with more and more players all wanting what we produce.
So from I Love Lucy to NCIS to Under the Dome we have an endless array of possibilities.
This includes as we said last quarter for the first time selling past seasons of certain current hit shows.
This can have a big financial upside.
We will continue to respond to opportunities and feel better than ever about our position in the catbird seat with the best current and library content out there.
Meanwhile our traditional domestic syndication business is performing very well with some particularly strong years ahead.
We're licensing NCIS: Los Angeles here in '13 and you can expect to hear an announcement on The Good Wife very soon for this year too.
Plus Hawaii Five-0 and Blue Bloods will go into syndication next year.
And giving the continuing success of Elementary the highest-rated new show of the year we have flexibility on when we sell the show down the road as well as a number of our Showtime hits including Dexter Californication and Nurse Jackie.
So our syndication pipeline remains very robust.
And of course we're licensing these shows into a rapidly expanding international marketplace as well.
The international marketplace continues to thrive.
Each year revenue and profits go up considerably.
This past year we booked $1.1 billion in revenue and we're confident we will exceed that this year.
In addition to licensing our hit shows to distributors we're also using our content as currency to expand our ownership positions in cable channels around the globe.
Along these lines today we announced a similar arrangement right here at home by gaining an ownership stake in Mark Cuban's AXS TV cable channel.
We gave them access no pun intended to certain live event programming as well as some promotion in exchange for significant equity in an entertainment cable network that is a terrific complement to our tentpole events.
This partnership with AEG and Mark Cuban is a very exciting opportunity for us.
Add to all of this our base advertising business that not only grew in the fourth quarter but accelerated from the third and you can see why we have a lot of positive things to look forward to in 2013 and beyond.
Let's take a quick look at the numbers before we turn to our operational highlights.
During the fourth quarter we increased our revenue by 2% to $3.7 billion.
And we turned that revenue growth into record profits with OIBDA up 6% to $866 million.
Operating income was up 12% to $726 million also a record.
And EPS was a record too up 14% to $0.64.
Remember we achieved these results against an extremely strong fourth quarter in 2011.
Meanwhile we also broke records for the full year as well.
Revenue of $14.1 billion was up 3% OIBDA of $3.5 billion was up 10% operating income of $3 billion was up 14% and EPS of $2.55 was up 23%.
So we delivered a record quarter and a record year while positioning the company for an even better '13.
CBS just ended one of the most remarkable 3-week periods in the history of television with our broadcast of the AFC Championship Game the Super Bowl and the Grammy Awards.
Super Bowl XLVII the biggest of big event television was the third most-watched program in television history with 108 million viewers and ratings for the Grammys was the second highest in 20 years with 28 million viewers.
For the Super Bowl we pulled the entire company together 15 CBS shows across 9 divisions all centered around historic square -- the historic Jackson Square in New Orleans.
CBS News CBS Entertainment CBS Distribution CBS Interactive CBS Radio Showtime our sports cable network and of course CBS Sports were all there getting sampled by new consumers and maximizing our profitable partnership with the NFL.
And as you know NFL football the Grammys and nearly all of CBS' key big events sports and entertainment franchises are all locked up for the next decade.
By the way each of these tentpole events is getting bigger all the time through the rise of social media.
In fact the 4 biggest social media events in history are this year's Super Bowl #1 last fall's elections this year's Grammys and last year's Grammys.
All of these events were on CBS and we had 3 of them exclusively.
We're continuing to monetize the second screen all the time.
So our big events are not only gaining valuable promotional buzz but becoming more and more profitable as well.
Meanwhile our success as a network isn't just the Super Bowl and the Grammys.
The rest of our schedule is performing phenomenally too.
Yes last week the Grammys was the #1 show.
But last week in addition we had 17 of the top 20 programs.
We won 82% of the half hours in primetime.
It doesn't get much better than that.
Plus last month we were the first television network in 6 years to have 2 scripted programs NCIS and Big Bang Theory with more than 20 million live viewers in the same week.
So just as we predicted on our last call the momentum at the CBS Television Network is building.
CBS is now the #1 network in all key demographics including adults 18 to 49 and we are pulling away from the pack.
We are ahead of last year's numbers and should finish the season ahead in every single demographic category.
And we should be the only network to have done so.
Our shows continue to attract millions of additional viewers through the DVR streaming and video on demand as well.
When you look at the 7-day window after our shows air more than 10 of our shows average an additional 3 million viewers on measured devices.
As these numbers continue to climb we will monetize many more viewers than we are right now.
One thing I know for certain about this year's upfront is like last year we will once again lead the pack in terms of pricing and overall volume.
And as always the bar will be very high to get on our schedule.
Once again we do not have many holes to fill at CBS and we have several exciting new prospects to fill the few that we do.
This includes a new comedy from Chuck Lorre; a crime drama from Alex Gansa and Howard Gordon the team who created Homeland; as well as a drama from the guy who produces CSI and the Pirates of the Caribbean franchise Jerry Bruckheimer; and many many more.
In addition in advance of this fall we have announced the most aggressive summer programming schedule in the history of the CBS Television Network.
First up as mentioned is Under the Dome our 13-part miniseries based on our own Simon &amp; Schuster Stephen King novel produced by Steven Spielberg's Amblin Entertainment.
We've also expanded our very profitable Big Brother franchise and we'll be launching another new reality series as well.
Plus Unforgettable a series that was #1 in all key demos for its time period when it went off the air in its first season will return for its second season of originals late this summer.
Meanwhile our aggressive investment in new programming is also a key part of our big success at our Cable Networks segment.
Dexter and Homeland had their best-rated seasons this fall with Homeland clearly being the most-honored television show of the year.
And we followed that up in January with the highest ratings yet for Shameless House of Lies and Californication.
These shows have helped us grow Showtime subscribers for 9 straight years.
This past year alone we gained 1 million subs and we are north of 22 million.
Showtime is indeed on fire.
We will capitalize on the success of Dexter and Homeland to launch 2 new dramas on Showtime this year.
Ray Donovan will premiere after Dexter this summer and Masters of Success -- of Sex success and sex will debut -- it is Valentine's Day -- will debut in September immediately following the highly anticipated return of Homeland.
We have ownership in both of these new shows.
Our content continues to lead the way in Publishing as well.
Simon &amp; Schuster ended the year with 317 New York Times bestsellers with 35 making it to #1.
That's 84 more bestsellers and 6 more #1s than we had in 2011.
We also continue to have increasing success in the more profitable e-book format which represented 24% of our Publishing revenue in the quarter.
Once again this digital revenue has better margins than a traditional publishing model.
In Local Broadcasting we also had a very strong quarter led by political advertising our TV stations set a record for political in the fourth quarter and followed that up in the first quarter with a record for Super Bowl spending as well.
Owning stations in both San Francisco and Baltimore was clearly a plus.
In fact WJZ in Baltimore had its highest rating since Nielsen began measuring television in that market.
And for all our friends in Baltimore we think Joe Flacco's play was awesome.
The Super Bowl was also very good for us in radio where we debuted our CBS Sports Radio network just a few weeks before the game.
When we announced this venture last year we had less than 100 affiliates.
Now we're already at 250.
The Super Bowl was a tremendous launching pad for this franchise and we look forward to good things to come.
And finally we have our game-changing Outdoor initiatives which we feel very good about.
Once again we love the Outdoor business and its continuing prospects.
This business continues to perform well for us and the prospective sale of our international properties has generated a significant amount of interest.
At the same time the investment community clearly likes the idea of a REIT conversion for our business in the Americas and we are confident we can achieve maximum value for our shareholders through these actions that are underway.
So as you can see our businesses are performing extremely well across our company.
We are very confident as we look forward 2013 is going to be a tremendous year.
The CBS Television Network is performing even better as we head into the upfront.
Our local businesses are getting stronger.
Retrans and reverse comp are going to be up significantly this year.
Digital streaming is going to be up significantly.
Domestic syndication has some huge years ahead and the international marketplace continues to grow rapidly.
Plus when you look at CBS down the road with all of these growth areas becoming a bigger part of our revenues the company's reliance on advertising should go from more than 70% a few years ago to just over half.
That's a very dramatic change in a very short period of time.
So we are transforming into a different company poised to grow in any economy and positioned to grow even more as the economy improves.
I couldn't be more pleased with our record fourth quarter and our record year in 2012 and I look forward to a terrific 2013 for the CBS Corporation.
And with that I'll turn it over to Joe.
Thanks Les and good afternoon everyone.
Before I get into our results I want to highlight some changes you see in our financial statements.
As a result of the actions we've have taken regarding Outdoor our Outdoor business in Europe and Asia is presented as a discontinued operation and our remaining Outdoor segment has been renamed Outdoor Americas.
In addition as a benefit of the prefunding we've done into our pension plan which lowers our residual cost line when you look at our segment tables residual costs are now included within corporate.
You can refer to the 8-K we filed last week which presents prior periods on a consistent basis.
Now I'd like to provide more details about our record 2012 fourth quarter and full year results.
Then I'll discuss what we see ahead.
After that we'll be happy to take your questions.
As Les said our financial performance is benefiting from our strategy of driving growth from new recurring revenue sources along with healthy increases in our advertising-supported businesses.
Our revenue mix will further diversify as we fully monetize our content in an ever-changing media landscape.
In the fourth quarter total revenue grew 2% to $3.7 billion.
Advertising revenue increased 3% in the fourth quarter an acceleration from the third quarter.
Content licensing and distribution revenue was down 7% due to a tough comp against last year's fourth quarter that included our initial CW streaming deals with Netflix and Hulu Plus.
And affiliate and subscription fee revenue was up 9% driven by growth at Cable Networks as well as higher retrans and reverse compensation.
These increases in our high-margin revenue streams coupled with flat operating expenses for the quarter helped us produce record OIBDA of $866 million and expand our OIBDA margin 90 basis points to 23.4%.
In addition I'd like to note that we took $19 million in restructuring charges throughout the company in the fourth quarter and we expect to realize annual savings of about $30 million as a result of these actions.
And for the year it's a very consistent story.
We generated record revenue of $14.1 billion up 3% in 2012 with growth in all 3 of our major revenue sources advertising grew 1% content licensing and distribution was up 7% and affiliate and subscription fees increased 9%.
These revenue increases drove records in all of our profit measures included diluted EPS from continuing operations of $2.55 for 2012 which was up 23%.
Now let's turn to our segments.
For the quarter Entertainment revenue of $1.99 billion was even with last year.
We had growth in network advertising retransmission fees and reverse compensation.
And that growth was offset by the difficult comparison to the fourth quarter of 2011 when we had our initial CW streaming deals that I just mentioned.
Network advertising was up 3% in the fourth quarter.
And after the election the demand from the scatter marketplace was the strongest we'd seen in all of 2012.
Entertainment OIBDA of $328 million grew 3% in the fourth quarter driven by our more profitable revenue mix.
And our OIBDA margin expanded 60 basis points to 16.5%.
Turning to Cable.
Fourth quarter revenue was up 11% to $438 million as the segment continued to benefit from growth in rates and subscribers as well as the licensing of our Showtime original content.
Cable OIBDA grew 6% to $185 million for the fourth quarter.
Our Cable OIBDA margin was affected by the timing of the airing of our Showtime programming.
As we've said before we always look at margins on a year-to-date basis.
And for the full year 2012 our Cable OIBDA margin expanded 200 basis points to a record 46%.
In Publishing Q4 revenue of $215 million was down 6% compared with Q4 of 2011 which included the release of the Steve Jobs biography a huge bestseller in 2011.
At the same time our higher margin e-book sales grew 24% over last year's fourth quarter.
Publishing OIBDA was up 11% for the fourth quarter to $31 million as a result of growth in digital revenue.
And our OIBDA at Publishing expanded 200 basis points to 14.4%.
Turning to Local Broadcasting.
Fourth quarter revenue of $787 million was up 9% fueled by strong political advertising.
TV station revenue was up 17% and radio revenue was up 1%.
Local Broadcasting OIBDA was up 22% to $325 million during the fourth quarter.
And the Local Broadcasting OIBDA margin expanded from 37% to 41% with some of our key TV stations hitting their highest margin in many years.
At Outdoor Americas a couple of items in Canada affected our fourth quarter results.
We did not renew a transit contract in Toronto and we also made a onetime retroactive payment in the fourth quarter for a new industry-wide advertising billboard tax in that market.
As a result fourth quarter revenue of $340 million was down slightly and our OIBDA was down 13% to $94 million with all of the decline coming from this tax payment.
Meanwhile our U.S.
Outdoor business which is the backbone of this segment continued to show solid growth with revenue up 3% for the quarter and 5% for the year.
Turning to cash flow and the balance sheet.
Free cash flow came in at $199 million for the fourth quarter compared with a use of cash of $42 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
In each of these periods we made a $200 million discretionary contribution to our pension plan.
We also used $299 million of cash to retire 8.5 million shares of our stock during the fourth quarter.
For the full year we returned roughly $1.2 billion to retire 35.5 million shares at an average price of $33 a share.
As Les said we announced plans today to initiate an accelerated share repurchase program of $1 billion during the first quarter.
This is in addition to the $1.2 billion in buybacks that we already planned for this year.
And nearly doubles the amount of our share repurchases for 2013.
So this gives you an indication of the confidence we have in our future.
We also ended 2012 with $708 million of cash on hand.
Now let me give you a few observations of what's ahead.
Advertising trends are favorable.
First quarter scatter pricing is up in the teens.
And Leslie already told you about our ratings.
Let me also point out without the political preemptions that we had in 2012 we will have 17 additional hours of primetime inventory to sell on the network in 2013.
And to give you some context that's worth tens of millions of dollars to us.
Our TV stations are pacing to be up mid-single digits for the first quarter and radio is pacing to be even with last year.
Looking at some major categories auto and financial services remain strong and retail is now accelerating.
In addition Outdoor Americas is pacing to be up low-to-mid single digits.
As you look at the first quarter keep in mind that the NCAA Final Four is in the second quarter of this year but was in the first quarter of 2012.
Turning to our non-advertising revenue sources.
You already know about our new carriage agreement with Charter but there's more to come.
Altogether we will be renewing agreements for 20% of our television station footprint in 2013.
So you can expect continued growth in affiliate and subscription fee revenue led by big increases in retrans.
We also expect our other major revenue source content licensing and distribution to be particularly strong.
We'll have 186 episodes of NCIS: Los Angeles and Good Wife going into first cycle domestic syndication later this year.
And in streaming the appetite for CBS programs also continues to be very strong as demonstrated by our Amazon extension.
As a result 2013 streaming revenue will exceed 2012 levels based on deals already in place.
So 2013 is set to build off of a record 2012 and we haven't even realized the benefits of our Outdoor initiatives yet.
As Les said we've had considerable interest in our Outdoor business in Europe and Asia.
And for Outdoor Americas we are on track to file the ruling request with the IRS next month to convert our business into a REIT.
We look forward to updating you on our progress during upcoming calls.
Also for 2013 we expect our tax rate as well as our capital spending levels to be comparable to 2012.
In summary we are executing our strategic vision excelling creatively in our operations and displaying strong financial discipline.
We've strengthened our balance sheet and we'll continue to benefit from our recent refinancings for many years ahead.
In addition we remain vigilant about containing our costs.
Our operational success and our financial health also enable us to continue to drive earnings and return value to our shareholders as evidenced once again by our ASR announcement today.
So 2012 was clearly a great year but there is much much more to come.
With that Keith we can open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Ben Swinburne Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'll ask my question and follow-up all in one shot here for efficiency purposes.
Joe on the buyback and the Outdoor plans you obviously create a lot of optionality for the company as you move down this REIT path though it's hard to pin down exactly what you might do with the capital over the next couple of years.
But maybe one way to help us think about it is what's the right way to think about leverage at the company? Your comfort level going forward.
And maybe if you want to talk about what that might look like in an Outdoor sale or spinoff scenario with the core business.
I think a year or so ago you talked about leverage ranges but it's been a while since you've updated us.
And then Les on the content side there was a lot of consternation about ratings back in the fall.
I think people have calmed down a little bit now.
But as you think about your schedule heading into the pilot season and into next fall do you think you need to make any changes to the kind of lineup you've got whether it's more serialized more comedy more reality competition these things tend to -- the sort of fads come in and out and you guys have built a big business around procedurals but I just would love to hear your thoughts on those genres and what you think makes sense longer term for the network? Okay Ben it's Joe.
I'll -- let me take the first part and then let Les answer the second part.
Look obviously the Outdoor transaction is unlocking tremendous value and it's creating financial flexibility.
I think there's no question in that again evidence our actions today.
And the revenue mix I think more importantly in our business is obviously becoming more predictable steady and recurring so that gives us obviously a lot more confidence.
So we're going to continue to evolve our thinking on leverage.
But obviously again as we keep -- our focus is always going to be on returning value to our shareholders so we're going to continue to move that forward.
But again there's tremendous amount of financial flexibility being created here.
I don't have a target number a specific exact number because it's always again evolving.
But again as I said is we certainly have more confidence in a steady recurring revenue stream.
Yes Ben.
And on the ratings as we've said the ratings this fall were a little more difficult to read number one.
Number one there were a  number of preemptions because of political.
The season started a bit late.
In addition obviously the amount that were watching live is only about 60%.
So at first blush looking at what those ratings are were sort of hard to read.
And then there's the normal sampling of the new stuff yet we said guys just hang on.
We're going to be fine and we are fine.
We're ahead.
We are better than even.
We're ahead going into February.
We're winning February sweeps by a lot and that's more than just these special events that we've had.
And as we look down the road as we're looking towards May once again we've ordered a couple of more pilots than we have in previous years but as I mentioned the pedigree is pretty phenomenal about who we have and it's going to be hard to get on our schedule.
In terms of types of programming we -- I'm going to say the same thing I said for 18 years.
The best shows are going to get on the schedule whether it's a comedy a drama a procedural drama or not.
My guess is they aren't going to be a lot of new shows like it was last year which enables us to sell even better where our ratings are extraordinarily good.
And we should lead the pack as it comes to the upfront.
And I think we're going to have a few new shows and we're not going to need very much.
We'll take our next question from Jessica Reif Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A question on AXS.
Will you be handling the affiliate negotiations? And can you give us some detail on what kind of content you'll provide will they have access to your live events? And then on retrans I don't know if you -- I didn't hear it if you said it but did you -- did you give a number? Presumably you hit the $250 million target.
And can you give us roughly how much growth you would expect in retrans and reverse comp in the coming year? I'll do the first and I'll let Joe do the second.
Regarding AXS it's sort of going to operate the way it is.
Having the power of CBS I'm sure we'll be able to increase affiliate fees but it's not going to be part of our negotiation.
We'll help out.
We'll join in when possible and when probable.
And in terms of content we have an awful lot of live programming and this is going to involve some of the shoulder programming that we do.
For instance backstage at the Grammys or pre-shows and post-shows.
The Friday night event this past week at the Grammys.
The tribute to Bruce Springsteen.
That was on AXS.
So we're going to work with them to provide a lot of content and it's great to be in business with Mark Cuban and Tim Leiweke.
They're good guys to be in business with and it's a very exciting new prospect for us.
And Jessica for the retrans number I think when you combine it with reverse comp we've said 2013 we're going to approach the halfway mark to that $1 billion we gave you.
So nearly $500 million for 2013 so we're well on our way.
We'll go next to David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is kind of a follow-up on I think Ben's follow-up which is when you think about the Outdoor monetization opportunity I think if you think about it as a straight spin right you get to lever up a little bit and then -- which is nice and there's some excess capital and it sounds like you're committed to giving that back to shareholders.
Well could you describe beyond just sort of a straight spin how you could maybe further monetize the asset to result in maybe more actual -- the ability to shrink your share base by monetizing the Outdoor asset.
Could you give us a little bit more color around that if it's possible? Sure David.
It's Joe.
Look first thing is we have total optionality.
We preserve all options on the table.
We think again this unlocks the greatest amount of value but there's a variation to a spinoff if you just focus again on CBS shareholder for a second a split off as you know is an exchange offer so where we would exchange the shares from Outdoor Newco for CBS so it could act as another share retirement kind of program.
So really just -- there are a lot of different technologies out there to really to get at the value.
So that's why we say we look at this as a currency and we're able to basically unlock the value.
So as a CBS shareholder you win either way.
You either had 2 pieces of paper 1 piece of paper but either way it's greater than its whole.
So no matter how you look at it David as Joe said the key is optionality.
But any way we do a transaction or a deal anything that happens it is good for our investors.
There will either be a retirement of shares.
There'll be capital to buy back shares et cetera et cetera.
So we think everybody's going to win by this.
We'll go next to Michael Morris Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two topics hoping you can help with.
First on local television it seems that the advertising wasn't quite at the level you were expecting in the fourth quarter when you commented on your third quarter call.
I'm curious whether that was -- the organic numbers are political or whether I'm misreading that.
And sort of the outlook that you gave for the first quarter whether that's an acceleration or trends are heating up or whether that's a sustained level? So that's the first.
And then the second the CBS Sports Network my question is really whether you can do more with this network? And I'm thinking specifically you do have a lot of sports rights.
I know that you use them on the CBS broadcast network and that's part of your retrans proposition but is there some opportunity there where you can be more aggressive with that network and push for some higher affiliate fees? You know what I'll do the second question first and Joe you could talk about local.
The sports -- that's exactly right.
The initial reason for acquiring it way back when was to combine it with our sports operation which it is now fully doing.
And when you look at the breadth of our sports profile now with our Sports Radio network our Cable Network and CBS Sports one of the keys to making the Sports Network work is getting more games more original programming and we're doing that using the talent and some of the rights fees.
So when we go in with CBS to get a basketball conference for rights we will always include some additional games for the CBS Sports Network and that invariably is happening with just about every new contract we have.
So as we walk in and get paid for this network the quality of the games the quality of what it is becomes bigger and bigger.
And we think the fees we're already seeing the fees go up and it's becoming quite profitable for us.
And Michael on local for the fourth quarter we definitely saw people buy around political.
Political was a record fourth quarter for us for presidential.
So we definitely see some categories buying around it.
If I was going to single one out it'd be retail maybe there was some uncertainty around the fiscal cliff and other things.
But as I said in my remarks that category in particular has come back nicely in Q1.
So we're pretty positive on the local categories.
Yes and then the thing that's significant to add on to that is how much the scatter is improving as we've gotten into the first quarter or frankly right after the election in December.
I think they were holding back but when we see the pacing right now in the first quarter specifically retail and some of the other ones we're very encouraged.
We'll go next to Doug Mitchelson with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So I would say the 2 most common questions are regarding the REIT are can you really get everything done that needs to be done to effect a REIT by January 1 2014 so IRS systems.
And then the second will you spend the proceeds to buy growth? Sony comes up a lot.
There's other studios cable network groups.
And you somewhat addressed the second part of the question but just more specifically should investors think that you're considering sort of reshaping the country -- company shifting from Outdoor to a different type of media asset and anything about execution on the REIT would be helpful.
Yes okay Doug it's Joe.
Back to -- there is a lot of work getting done.
And there are a lot of people probably listening to this call who are working on that transaction.
So I'm not sure why they are listening to the call they should probably get back to work.
But we're confident in that timetable.
Obviously we will be filing with the IRS.
We think 6 to 9 months is sufficient.
There's obviously an SEC process as well so that will go on simultaneously.
But we're confident we can get that done with the right team around that.
So -- but there is a lot of work.
As far as the proceeds obviously we're open to everything but as we sit here today we see our best and highest use of buying back our stock.
And so we're going to focus on doing that.
That works.
And we are transforming the company with just executing on our strategic vision as you're seeing the mix change.
So we don't need an acquisition to do that.
I think again we've demonstrated that today and we continue to do that.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up.
No concerns on the information technology side? All the things that you have to -- to be able to track to effect a REIT? Just got to be -- the revenue has got to feed into a QRS or a TRS.
So it's either qualified or not qualified.
So we have some smart guys figuring out how to map revenue.
We know how to collect the money and we just got to put it in the right bucket.
We're ready.
We're ready.
We'll take our next question from John Janedis with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Les there's been a move by some of the SVOD players for more exclusive or newer content renewals? And I know in the past you've talked about your ability to monetize your library.
Can you talk a little bit more -- you mentioned it on the call but where are you in selling prior seasons of existing CBS shows and how real is the interest from new SVOD players? Look in terms of -- we're obviously that -- it's something that I mentioned earlier the thing -- we're talking to people about doing -- there are certain shows that will fit more appropriately to being sold previous season of current shows and there are couple of those shows that could fit into that sort of situation.
And once again it can unlock a lot of money.
As we've seen from the Under the Dome deal and people say gee this is a new kind of deal for you.
And it absolutely is.
And frankly to put on that kind of quality programming in the summer we needed to do an exclusive deal with Amazon on a deal that takes place only 4 days after airing so it's a brand new model for us.
So as we have been maybe somewhat more conservative than some of our competitors about that what we're doing is studying the SVOD market.
We're studying the digital market.
And we're choosing how to make our deals.
And the deals we're making today are deals we may not have made 2 years ago now that we know a lot more about the marketplace.
Obviously to renew an Amazon deal is very productive.
We're obviously still doing deals with Netflix all the time.
Intel we're obviously in conversations with as they are with all content suppliers.
The good news Hulu continues to knock on our door and should I say Hulu Plus more specifically.
The good news about us and we've said this over and over again we have the library and the current content that everybody wants.
So our job is just to make the right deals and I think we are.
Research Division</strong> Maybe as a follow-up are you seeing more interest from new international markets? Yes.
Yes.
I mean what's interesting about the international marketplace is often the digital suppliers are the same people that are the cable or the broadcaster there.
So our international groups are selling to different people in the territory but it's country-by-country and obviously Netflix is growing there.
So the great news once again I keep reiterating.
I'm a broken record.
They all want the content in as many places as they can get it and we're happy to give it to them.
We'll go next to Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the comments you made on the SVOD revenues.
When you said the SVOD revenue is likely to be up in 2013 are those deals that have already been made or are those just for projecting in terms of what you think is in the pipeline? And also are you already I guess seeing SVOD revenue from sales of shows of previous season that are currently on air? Or is that still to be negotiated? There are -- frankly it's all of the above.
Obviously it's increases in current deals that we currently have.
We also have the ability as you know to take shows at our discretion put them into the deal if we take them off the CBS Television Network which is a possibility and in addition there are certain shows where previous seasons of current shows will be out there in some of those arrangements.
So the good news is there are a lot of opportunities in every way shape or form.
Go next to Laura Martin with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Let's talk about political advertising for a sec.
I think in our model we had about $180 million Joe could you tell us whether that came in close.
And remind me Joe and my recollection is that maybe as we think about doing target prices out to 2014 I'm remembering that your midterm elections are larger than your presidential year? And could you size for us how much bigger they have been historically over the presidential year? Well let's start with that first.
Okay sure.
I think your number from $180 million is in the ballpark Laura.
Very close.
Again like I said earlier a record presidential.
The midterm election revenue is higher.
I would generally say 20-plus percent higher in that kind of range.
So again we're looking forward to 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> Perfect great.
And then Les thinking about the upfront.
So we've got scatter mid-single digits.
You guys are going to replace like even fewer than the 5 shows...
Scatter's in the teens.
Scatter's in the teens.
LLC Research Division</strong> Mid-teens sorry and you're going to replace fewer than the 5 shows so you're pretty good about being aggressive walking into upfront as the #1 player.
Where are your thinking right now is going to be your ask as you walk into upfront? Laura my sales department will kill me.
I am not going to make -- last year I said double digits and we only had 9%.
The year before I said double digits and we had 12% to 13%.
So it's a bit early to make the prediction.
We're going to be up but I'm not going to give you a number right now but I'm feeling very confident.
We'll go next to David Miller with the B.
Riley Caris.
LLC Research Division</strong> Joe just one question.
My understanding surrounding the dynamics of the Americas Outdoor piece is that yes you're going to pursue REIT status but if a bid should come along for the business that you think is super accretive and assigns fair value to the business then you'll just take that bid and just do away with the whole REIT endeavor.
What would be -- given that as a backdrop what would be the hard date that you would have to make that decision? Would it be June September Thanksgiving? What's the hard date where you would have to decide okay we're just going to sell this business and do away with it or actually really pursue the REIT structure? There is no hard date David.
We're going to maximize value for our shareholders.
So if a superior transaction comes along we'll certainly consider it.
Our focus and intent is doing it.
We think we're maximizing value with this transaction but obviously we're always going to be rational business folks and we're going to listen to anything that's presented.
Go next to Alan Gould with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> A couple of REIT-related questions.
Joe what range of leverage do you plan on putting on the Outdoor Americas business? And with respect to the international Outdoor business can you give us any idea of roughly how much debt is on that business and what the EBITDA was in 2012 excluding the U.K.
Outdoor -- U.K.
Underground contract? Sure let me start with the -- Alan let me start with the REIT.
Again we haven't made any of those decisions but if you would just look historically at REITs I think kind of plus or minus 4x has been a range of leverage that seems like other people in similar industries have put on it.
So it can certainly support that level potentially even a little bit more.
So that's kind of going in.
And the international business again it is saddled with a tough contract in London as we're all well aware.
That does expire in early 2015.
So that's the good news.
So it did lose some money in 2012 but again really as a result of that one contract.
Obviously excluding that contract it's nicely profitable.
Research Division</strong> Could you quantify those profits excluding the contract? No we can't do that.
We can't quantify that x the contract.
But I will just tell you it's out there and obviously we're going to be looking at indicative bids based on that number.
We'll go next to Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
A couple of things.
First please a slightly different question.
It's about the Showtime Network.
There's been a lot of discussion and deals lately on film output.
And I'm wondering how important do you think films may be for Showtime going forward? And likewise what do you think Netflix and others are changing in terms of that market? Secondly you mentioned something about measurement.
I just wonder what your updated thoughts are on potential shift to C7 tablet measurement et cetera? Okay regarding Showtime.
We made a decision a few years ago to devote much more money into original programming than these output deals.
Having said that we have 2 big deals currently.
One's with Harvey Weinstein's company and one's with DreamWorks.
So for instance this year we have 3 of the 9 Academy Award winners having paid a lot less.
We have Django.
We have Silver Linings and we have Lincoln which is pretty good as well as a couple of smaller movies from CBS Films Salmon Fishing in the Yemen which got nominated for a number of Golden Globe Awards.
So that strategy clearly has worked for us.
Showtime has grown quite a bit every single year and people are coming to Showtime more for their original series than for the movies.
Netflix obviously is in a different business than we are.
They are buying libraries.
They're buying film libraries.
They are buying groups of current films and it's a different model.
That works for them.
HBO also buys a lot more films than we do but our strategy clearly is working.
Our growth has been pretty phenomenal and we will continue to do original series.
Regarding C7 once again we're in conversations with advertisers.
Obviously Nielsen has the capacity to give us those numbers immediately.
How quickly that will be implemented I don't know.
I don't know if it will be ready for this year's upfront.
But clearly we are heading for that.
The good news about Nielsen is they are measuring more and more of digital sites and they are able to give us much more accurate information.
So as a result our content keeps growing in what it's worth as Nielsen gets these -- does these numbers better and there's a full-scale effort to be able to -- I've mentioned DVRs and digital and SVOD and as soon as we can aggregate them all we get more money.
Our final question is from Marci Ryvicker Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first can you give us the SVOD or streaming revenue number for 2012 to at least give us a benchmark for 2013? Marci all we can say is hundreds of millions of dollars.
We're not going to get into specific numbers but it's hundreds of millions of dollars.
We haven't cracked $1 billion per year yet but we're well on our way.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a couple of small questions for Outdoor that kind of add up to one question.
The Outdoor pacing low-single to mid-single digits can you talk about what is U.S.
and when you start cycling through these Toronto contracts and then was OIBDA flat excluding that onetime payment just for a clarification? The answer is yes.
On the second part of your question I think we said in the remarks that the tax payment contributed to all of the loss.
And U.S.
usually always leads the way so when I said low to mid I think you should assume the U.S.
is going to lead the pack there.
But obviously we have operations in Canada Mexico and South America.
So that's all obviously focused on the local economies.
But again it's the category or the segment is attracting broader advertising categories.
So what we like about it it's not dependent on one particular category.
So there's a lot of diversity we have geographic diversity as well.
So we feel pretty good about its prospects.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and Toronto when are you done cycling through those contracts? It's comped now.
Yes this quarter so the fourth quarter was the last difficult comp for the Toronto contract.
Thanks Marci.
And this concludes today's call.
Thank you everyone for joining us tonight.
Have a great rest of your Valentine's Day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's discussion.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the CBS Corporation First Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Teleconference.
Today's call is being recorded.
And at this time I'd like to turn the conference over to the Executive Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead sir.
Okay thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our first quarter 2013 earnings call.
Joining me for today's discussion are Sumner Redstone our Executive Chairman; Leslie Moonves President and CEO; and Joe Ianniello Executive Vice President and CFO.
Sumner will have opening remarks and will turn the call over to Les and Joe who will then discuss the strategic and financial results.
We will then open the call up to questions.
Please note that statements on this conference call related to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed in CBS Corporation's news releases and securities filings.
The webcast of this call and the earnings release related to today's presentation can be found on the Investors section of our website at cbscorporation.com.
Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information related to this call can be found in our earnings release or on our website.
And with that it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Sumner.
Thank you Adam.
Good afternoon everyone.
CBS had begun 2013 right where it left off in 2012 and you'll hear today our world-class content is driving our success and is getting more value growth day-by-day.
With Les and his talented management team I'm confident that CBS will continue to grow for many many years to come.
Now to tell you about it is CBS' President and CEO my good friend and colleague actually a superstar Les Moonves.
Thank you very much Sumner.
Good afternoon everybody and thanks for joining us once again.
I'm extremely pleased to tell you that CBS has delivered the most successful quarter in the history of our company.
For the first time ever in any quarter revenue exceeded $4 billion up 6% from a year ago.
OIBDA was $916 million up 15%.
Operating income was $800 million up 18% and EPS was $0.73 up 24%.
Each of these financial metrics is the best we've ever posted in a single quarter reflecting both the strength of our base businesses and the ongoing success of our strategy to grow the company's steady and recurring revenue.
It's very evident that CBS' world-class content is becoming more and more valuable all the time.
Advertising grew strongly during the quarter not only driven by the success of the Super Bowl but also the entire CBS Television Network which will end this season #1 across all key demographics.
Plus our fast-growing non-advertising revenue sources were up significantly with double-digit increases in retrans reverse comp and streaming.
And just as we told you would be the case 2013 is shaping up to be even better than 2012 which was a record year for us.
The opportunities to monetize our programming continue to multiply and the initiatives underway at our Outdoor business will make our company singularly focused on capitalizing on our great future as a content company.
To show you how confident we are in that future we spent nearly $1.3 billion on share buybacks during the first quarter.
That puts us on track to repurchase $2.2 billion in 2013 an acceleration of more than $1 billion from last year.
Going forward you can be sure that returning capital to our shareholders will remain a key priority for us.
You'll hear more from us on this in the coming months.
As usual I'm going to give you some highlights about each of our businesses before turning it over to Joe to discuss our very healthy financial picture.
And after that we'll be happy to take your questions.
Let's start with our largest segment Entertainment.
As you all know the world of consuming content is changing rapidly.
Technology is enhancing the viewer experience and it's providing us with more and more opportunities to grow our businesses all the time.
He who has the best content has the best options.
And as you can see from today's results we're playing our hand very well in this new age.
You can continue to count on us to be very strategic in this regard going forward.
At the center of all this is the programming in the CBS Television Network which had an exceptional first quarter.
We were led by the phenomenal performance of our primetime schedule and on top of that broadcast several of the biggest events in media.
These included the Super Bowl the AFC Championship Game the GRAMMYs and the NCAA Men's Basketball tournament which by the way was up 10% in viewers the biggest audience in 8 years.
Plus the championship game which took place in the second quarter had the best ratings in nearly 2 decades.
More recently our weekend coverage of The Masters Golf Tournament attracted more than 44 million viewers the second-largest audience in 12 years.
And this year's Academy of Country Music Awards posted its largest ratings in 15 years.
For the first time it even topped the competing country music awards show that airs on another network.
So clearly no matter how many other choices are out there big event television is pulling in audiences like never before.
And of course the CBS Television Network success is much more broad-based than just its tentpole events.
We have strength every night of the week.
As I said CBS is set to end the season as the most-watched network for the 10th time in 11 years.
We are winning in households.
We are winning in viewers.
We are winning in adults 25 to 54 and yes we are also winning in adults 18 to 49 for the first time since the '91-'92 season.
When this season ends we'll have the #1 show NCIS; the #1 comedy Big Bang Theory; the #1 new show Elementary; and the #1 news program 60 Minutes.
And we'll have finished the season up year-over-year.
Besides CBS there's only one other network can make this claim and we're happy to say it's the CW which of course we own 50%.
CBS' successful run will continue for a long long time.
40% of our shows on our primetime entertainment schedule are 3 years old or less and we'll be adding several strong rookies this fall.
With so few holes to fill the bar to get on to our schedule is once again set very high and we can be much more selective than our competitors.
Having now personally seen most of our pilots I can assure you that next season is going to be another terrific year for the CBS Television Network.
In fact we are in such a strong position that as we evaluate our development we're actually looking beyond the fall and already beginning to program for 2014.
In the meantime we're going to enter this year's Upfront marketplace in a very enviable position.
Demand for inventory is even stronger than it was at this same time last year with scatter pricing up double digits over last year's Upfront pricing.
As happens every single year there's a lot of noise out there.
But one thing is for sure CBS will be coming to market with a schedule that has consistently earned the trust of our advertisers.
We'll continue to earn premium pricing for the simple reason that we pull together mass audiences like no one else can.
Out of the 5 broadcast networks we are #1.
Out of the 500 cable channels we're #1.
And out of 5 billion websites we're #1 in viewers.
So unless there's a network on Mars we're not aware of we're the #1 watched network in the entire universe.
Because of all of this we will be very aggressive going into the Upfront.
I can say with absolute confidence that we'll once again lead the marketplace in both pricing and volume.
The pricing increases will look a lot like they did last year from high-single to low-double digits.
Yes folks.
There you have it.
The numbers you have been waiting for.
Needless to say given our #1 status our ongoing track record and the demand we're seeing in scatter right now I'm extremely bullish about the Upfront marketplace.
So we're feeling very good about our ability to grow the company's advertising revenue and at the same time our success in growing the company's recurring non-advertising revenue is a terrific story as well.
As we told you on our last call we recently renewed and expanded our agreement with Amazon and we continue to benefit very nicely from our Netflix deal as well.
These 2 deals led to strong double-digit growth in streaming revenues during the quarter.
As we look to the future our relationships with Netflix and Amazon will remain very strong and we're confident they will continue to be extended beyond their current terms.
Plus in addition to these 2 companies there are many other online distribution services entering this space.
And there's one common thing they all need: the best content.
With people consuming more and more video all the time the key to success is pretty simple if you keep creating the best content you'll keep getting paid better and better as technology improves.
The power of great content is also fueling our success in the syndication marketplace which continues to grow and evolve.
Our domestic syndication sale of NCIS: Los Angeles will be hitting the books later this year and we announced an innovative multiplatform distribution deal for The Good Wife selling it simultaneously to broadcast television cable television and multiple streaming partners.
Looking ahead we will continue to maximize the value for each of our programming assets taking into account all possible platforms.
As we do we have Hawaii Five-0 and Blue Bloods coming up for domestic syndication in 2014 plus we have a steady stream of owned hits from Showtime including Dexter Californication and Nurse Jackie.
And just today our daytime lineup received 49 Emmy nominations the most of any network.
We also had a phenomenal quarter in terms of retrans and reverse comp reflecting the better terms we continue to receive for our content.
It certainly helps in negotiations to have the NFL the NCAA NCIS Big Bang Theory and 60 Minutes in our arsenal.
And we remain on target to hit our goal of $1 billion in retrans and reverse comp by 2017 if not before.
Meanwhile the performance of CBS Interactive continues to be very strong its financial results in the first quarter were the best we've seen with 22% overall revenue growth.
This includes CNET which was up 24%; China which was up 35%; and overall video revenue which was up 76%.
In addition we launched our new CBS streaming app during the quarter.
Within 24 hours it was the #1 free iPad app and it crossed 1 million downloads in a little more than 2 weeks.
As you know we are windowing the content to be available 8 days after airing and we are monetizing all of the incremental viewing.
In our Cable Network segment our continued success at original programming is why we are now approaching 23 million Showtime subscribers with plenty of room to grow.
We're also very excited about our 2 new Showtime series that are on the way both of which we have ownership in.
First Ray Donovan will debut this summer after the eighth season premiere of Dexter and then Masters of Sex will debut in the fall after Homeland.
Obviously the world is waiting with great anticipation for another season of Homeland and we are as well.
In addition Showtime recently signed a deal to bring Floyd Mayweather along with some of the most recognized names in boxing over from HBO.
Our first Mayweather fight is this Saturday night in Las Vegas and we're bringing the full resources of CBS to help promote it.
We're looking forward to boxing and sports in general helping to drive Showtime's growth going forward.
Also during the quarter we took another strategic step to increase our profile in Cable Entertainment program.
We acquired a 50% stake in the TV Guide Network which we will operate through a joint venture with a great partner in Lionsgate.
The TV Guide Network is in 80 million homes and we've already begun to improve its programming.
This partnership represents significant upside for us at an extremely attractive price.
And together with CBS Sports Network the Smithsonian Channel as well as our minority interest in AXS we feel very good about our growth prospect in cable television.
In Publishing our run of content success continues.
Simon &amp; Schuster had 86 New York Times bestsellers during the quarter with 8 of them reaching #1.
Digital sales now represent 30% of our Publishing revenue with some of our major bestsellers approaching 50%.
Once again the shift to digital publishing has resulted in a more profitable business as we turned in double-digit profit growth during the quarter.
In addition our Publishing business continues to be an important part of our overall content strategy serving as the impetus for programming across other divisions of our company.
For example this summer CBS will broadcast a miniseries based on the Stephen King novel Under the Dome and then Simon &amp; Schuster will rerelease the title once again.
In Local Broadcasting our TV stations are off to a great start this year.
Our CBS stations in the top 3 [ph] market each own the biggest local revenue share we have on record going back to even before we broadcast the Nagano Olympics in the first quarter of 1998.
And during the February sweep every single one of our CBS-owned stations was #1 in primetime with WCBS in New York the #1 watched television station in the entire country.
The performance of our local news department has been exceptional.
I'm particularly proud of the way WBZ in Boston teamed up with CBS News to keep America informed during the horrific events of last month.
WBZ's wall-to-wall coverage once again proved the enduring vitality of local television.
In Radio we continue to build on the terrific debut of the CBS Sports Radio network.
We've added 20 affiliates to our roster since our last call.
In addition CBS Radio played a major role in this year's success of the Academy of Country Music Awards.
This is a show that perfectly complements our radio audiences as evidenced by all the artists who mentioned the power of radio in their acceptance speeches.
And finally a brief update on Outdoor.
We've taken the first step to convert our Outdoor Americas business into a REIT by making our submission to the IRS.
And I'm pleased to tell you that the sale of our operations in Europe and Asia is going very well with a number of significant players making bids.
Joe will provide more details on this shortly but we feel very good about the progress we are making on both of these fronts.
So clearly this is a remarkable quarter.
I repeat.
In all our key metrics we turned in the highest numbers in our country -- company's history and it continues to be a tremendous time to be an investor in CBS.
Our base businesses are solid and as the company focused on making the best content we're entering an era of opportunity unlike anything we have ever seen.
Specifically there are a number of forces at work that will drive earnings in 2013 and beyond.
First as I mentioned we are certain it will be a terrific Upfront for CBS with very healthy growth in pricing and volumes.
Next our non-advertising revenue sources are set to grow significantly.
No one has more content that is in higher demand than CBS.
And with new companies coming into the streaming market all the time we will continue to generate incremental revenue for our programming.
Retrans and reverse comp are also set to grow at a fast clip and in syndication we have a robust pipeline.
Plus we're moving forward with our strategic initiatives at CBS Outdoor and of course continuing through share buybacks and dividends to return even more value to our shareholders.
So I'm sure you can see why we're so excited about our future.
And with that I will turn it over to our terrific CFO Joe Ianniello.
Thanks Les and good afternoon everyone.
Today I'll provide some more details about our first quarter results then I'll discuss what we see ahead for the rest of 2013.
Let me start with our first quarter results.
As you've heard we delivered the strongest quarter ever for CBS.
Advertising posted solid growth and we had even bigger gains from our key recurring revenue sources.
As a result we are more confident than ever that we have the right strategy in place to continue our transformation and drive earnings growth in the years ahead.
As Les highlighted our total revenue for the quarter was up 6% to $4 billion.
Advertising was up a very solid 8% more on that in a bit.
Content licensing and distribution revenue was down 1% which can be attributed to the timing of 2 items during last year's first quarter when we had the theatrical release of The Woman in Black and the syndication sale of CSI: Miami.
However we benefited during the quarter from significantly higher streaming revenue which continues to grow steadily.
And affiliate and subscription fee revenue increased 14% with strong gains in cable retrans and reverse compensation.
These revenue increases led to OIBDA of $916 million up 15% and our OIBDA margin expanded nearly 200 basis points to just under 23%.
Net income from continuing operations rose 18% and EPS came in at $0.73 up 24%.
Let's turn to our operating segments.
At Entertainment revenue for the first quarter was up 10% to $2.5 billion driven by advertising as well as higher revenue from retrans reverse comp and streaming.
Network advertising was up 14% fueled by the Super Bowl.
Our underlying base network advertising business remains steady with low single-digit revenue growth for the quarter.
Entertainment OIBDA of $480 million increased 17% for the quarter and the OIBDA margin expanded 120 basis points to 19% helped in part by our 2012 restructuring activities.
At our Cable segment revenue for the first quarter was up 6% to $478 million with increases across all types of distributors: traditional cable DBS and telco.
Cable OIBDA of $231 million increased 11% and our cable OIBDA margin expanded 210 basis points to 48%.
Turning to Publishing.
The story remains very consistent from prior quarters.
We continue to achieve higher profits from the shift to digital.
Ebooks now represents nearly 1/3 of our total sales.
For the first quarter Publishing OIBDA was up 20%.
In Local Broadcasting first quarter revenue of $638 million was up 3%.
TV stations revenue rose 5% helped by the strong Super Bowl sales which were partially offset by one less major market sports contract.
And Radio revenue was comparable to last year with the top 10 markets up 2%.
Local Broadcasting OIBDA of $199 million was up 16% demonstrating our continued focus on cost controls and the OIBDA margin expanded 370 basis points to 31%.
That number is especially impressive given that this is a non-political year.
In Outdoor Americas revenue for the quarter was down $7 million to $281 million primarily due to the non-renewal of several low-margin contracts.
U.S.
billboards continued to post steady gains up 2% for the quarter.
And Outdoor OIBDA was down $2 million to $74 million.
Turning to cash flow and the balance sheet.
Free cash flow for the quarter came in at $576 million representing a 63% flow-through from OIBDA.
During the quarter we retired 24 million shares of our stock.
This includes 6 million shares that we repurchased in the open market for $262 million and 18 million shares that were delivered as part of our $1 billion ASR.
As we indicated in today's earnings release we expect another 4-plus million shares to be delivered during the second quarter which will complete our current ASR transaction.
So we started the second quarter with 627 million diluted shares which is 12 million lower than the weighted average shares for Q1.
We plan to continue with our ongoing share repurchase program with our target of $2.2 billion for the year.
We exited the quarter with $409 million of cash on hand.
We also extended our $2 billion credit facility through March of 2018 at more favorable rates.
In addition during early April we made a $150 million discretionary contribution to our pension plan and we will receive a full tax deduction on that amount this year.
Now let me give you a few observations of what's ahead for the rest of 2013.
For the second quarter all of our local businesses TV Radio and Outdoor are pacing to be up low-single digits.
On national level as Les said the scatter demand going into the Upfront is very strong and you'll start to see the benefit of our Upfront pricing gains in Q4 of this year.
I'd like to give you a quick update on our Outdoor transactions as well.
The REIT convergence of our Americas business is on track.
As you've heard we submitted our private letter ruling request with the IRS during the first quarter.
We are now completing the standalone audit of the business and plan to file a registration statement with the SEC this quarter.
Turning to Outdoor.
In Europe as Les said we received a number of bids and we are currently negotiating with several parties.
The sale process is moving along as planned and we expect to announce a definitive agreement in the coming weeks.
In summary 2013 is off to a great start and we are on our way to an even better year than 2012 which everyone knows was a record year for us.
Our first quarter results prove that the strategic steps we've been taking continue to pay off.
As we pursue our content-driven focus the opportunities to monetize our programming will grow even further resulting in an even more predictable earnings base.
So we have a very bright future ahead and we look forward to discussing our results with you on our next call.
And with that Tom we can open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Joe can I ask 2 questions just on timing on the Outdoor front? You have an expectation for when you think you can actually move forward with an IPO? Is that a 2013 or 2014 event? I know you said you are in the process of pulling the proxy together.
And also second what's your expectation on when you'll hear back from the IRS on your filing? And then I have a follow up for Les.
Sure.
Okay Ben.
Look on the timing we said we would file with the IRS in the first quarter and we did that I believe March 15.
So traditionally the IRS takes 6 or so months.
So obviously they have to go through their process and we'll respond to any questions they have during that process.
On the SEC front we'll file that registration statement this quarter and we'll go through rounds of questioning that they have on our filing.
So again the anticipation is by the end of the year we're through and clear that and we're ready for the IPO.
Could it happen a little sooner or little later I guess.
Sure.
That's a little bit of out of our control.
But we're staying on track for that and we're very optimistic about that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And Les could you talk a little bit about your plans for the network this summer? I know your -- obviously have the big show you've co-financed or co-produced with Amazon.
There's a lot of focus on sort of fragmentation and time shifting and how that's impacting programming decisions.
Are you looking to put more hours of content on the air particularly over the summer? And do you think that more serialized makes more sense just given what we've seen about the SVOD players or am I over extrapolating on Under the Dome there? Number one it's not a co-production with Amazon.
We have the deal where they're going to air it 3 or 4 days after it's on the air at the network.
So it is a -- something that we have never done before.
And during the summer months we were looking for the ability to put on more original programming because things were getting a little quieter in the summer and we had to look for new models to do that.
And because of the Amazon deal and obviously the strong international syndication marketplace we're able to put on a big budgeted 12-episode miniseries like Under the Dome on there.
In addition we have some more reality programming than we normally do and Big Brother comes back every year which it's done extremely well for 10 years.
So there will be more activity during the summer and perhaps even during the year.
I think what's happened with the SVOD partners we've had a lot more freedom to put on more original program.
Under the Dome is serialized in nature and that sort of lends itself to more of the SVOD and I think that becomes a part of it.
But certainly not at the exclusion of the close-ended shows which still sell better in syndication.
The next question comes from Jessica Reif-Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess these are for Les 2 questions.
One on your new schedule how much of the content would you expect to own given the amazing continuing rise in content values? Right now we own about 70% of our schedule.
Right now it's too early to tell.
As I said we're still in the pilot process and we're beginning our scheduling meetings in a few days.
So I don't know which of our shows is going to get on the air.
I can tell you over 50% of our pilots are wholly-owned.
So it will be a combination of some of the outside stuff but also some of the things we own and I anticipate there'll be some of both.
Research Division</strong> And I guess a follow up and then my other question.
Of the other 50% of the pilots do you have a partial interest? And then my other question is really the timing of the syndicated shows from Showtime would that be 2015? In terms of the other -- the ones that are outside some we do own an interest in and a couple of them we don't.
Warner Bros.
obviously we don't -- they don't share in terms of the ownership.
But some of the other studios do.
So it's a mixed bag as it always is.
But rest assured when the schedule's announced in a few weeks there'll be a large large percentage of CBS-owned shows.
In terms of Showtime obviously Dexter is going to finish its final year.
It's been announced and it begins in a few weeks.
And that can go into syndication soon after that and the other 2 are in '14 and '15.
Our next question comes from David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first is could you talk a little bit about the investment in Syncbak and how that fits into CBS and how you think about how you could use the technology.
And the second question is Les I think at the Milken Institute you kind of made some commentary about the potential with which you or any other broadcast network presumably could kind of transform into a cable network.
Do you really think on a practical level would it be executable on a fairly rapid timeframe? Joe why don't you do Syncbak.
Okay David on Syncbak I think what we like about the investment A it preserves the current ecosystem and it protects the affiliates very well can be Nielsen measured and so we're very flexible with that.
So if consumers want to consume the content that way we want to make sure that we have an ability to deliver it that way.
So I think again it was a very smart and strategic investment.
And David on the cable thing number one I don't think it'll ever come to that because I think we're going to win the case legally and the moving to cable is a secondary resort.
Once again 85% of our viewers are receiving the CBS signal through cable or satellite or any other MVPD.
So we're only talking about that final 10% or 15% and it would only be in markets where that -- let's say the court said aerial could exist.
And so it's nothing we think that is going to happen.
But if it does it's fairly easy to do it and frankly it wouldn't change the affiliation agreements because what we would put on would be our local stations just as they are now.
We would just exclude broadcast and as I said I am very doubtful that that happens.
Our next question comes from Anthony DiClemente with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
First if could you could please provide a little more detail on your agreement with Netflix just in terms of where does it stand now? There's talk they're shifting their strategy more to exclusive shows and just wondering if -- what is the nature of your deal? Has the nature of the content that you have on Netflix changed? Do you have the opportunity to re-up renegotiate or exercise a put option for '13 or for '14? Just want to kind of clarify that.
And then my second question is it does sound Les like you have a few more pilots this year than last year.
You're talking about owned episodes on the network.
Just wondering how that impacts programming expenses through the model? Should we expect a bit of a bump in terms of programming in the 2Q? And then how should we think about just general trajectory of programming expenses going into next year as well? I'll do the second one first and then Joe why don't you talk about Netflix.
Yes you know what Anthony we did a few more comedy pilots.
The dramas were about the same.
We did a few extra comedy pilots next year.
And as I said where the good news about the situation with our schedule is right now there's only one apparent opening for a comedy.
But knowing that a year from now How I Met Your Mother this is its final year it's good to be able to be -- plan for that and put on a few more mid-season shows.
And I can tell you right now we certainly have the goods to do that.
In terms of programming costs going up obviously Under the Dome is something we didn't do a year ago.
But we wouldn't have done Under the Dome unless we knew we had it backed up 100% by the Amazon deal and combining Amazon with the international syndication deal makes Under the Dome profitable immediately.
So you may see more original programming on during the schedule during the year.
But only if it's backed up by the ability to monetize it elsewhere.
So there may be a higher programming cost but on top of that there'll be significantly more revenue and more profits.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And Anthony on Netflix look our Netflix relationship is very very strong.
We're in constant dialogue with them all the time.
So our agreement today currently provide -- we have some flexibility obviously going out through this year and next year.
So again I think it's again it's a relationship.
We continue to build it they're quite happy with the content we're providing them.
And as they evolve we're going to kind of continue to be by their side.
Research Division</strong> Are your dollars from Netflix higher this year than last year? And will it be higher next year than this year? Or is that something you don't feel comfortable talking about? Well I don't think we give any sort of guidance on that and specifically with an individual distributor.
But I think what we did say was 2013 streaming revenue will exceed 2012.
That we can say today for sure.
And I think Les said in his remarks there's a lot of other providers talking about how to distribute content and again I think as the marketplace evolves we're right there.
Yes and just to amplify on that the relationship with Netflix yes we have a big overall deal with them and now those results come in they see some of our content is working better than others and there's some shift.
In other words we're giving them stuff and replacing stuff and there are certain things that will come off our schedule that we do have the ability to make a put towards.
But once again as long as there is a consistent dialogue about this deal and ongoing deals the relationship remains strong and we anticipate that it will remain strong for many years to come.
We'll take our next question from Michael Morris with Davenport &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First is on the relationship between ratings and advertising revenue.
You said that your base ad biz was up low-single digits ratings kind of across-the-board are down.
So my question is not just for you but for broadcast and some cable networks as well but my question is it's clearly a pricing strength issue.
Are you seeing the pricing strength across-the-board for all of your different products or different dayparts? Or are events becoming increasingly important? Is primetime increasingly important? Where's the strength there? And then I have a follow up.
I think the answer is all of the above.
Obviously because we are the leading network in all demographics our scatter pricing and our demand is significantly higher than anybody else's.
So there is as I said more demand than there was exactly a year ago in the scatter marketplace.
At the same time the pricing for the big events has gone up substantially.
The GRAMMYs pricing went up a lot.
The ACM's pricing went up a lot.
The football pricing went up a lot and it will remain that way.
As much as people continue to want to say "network is failing " it isn't.
It isn't.
The Super Bowl prices keep going up a couple of hundred thousand dollars for a 30-second spot.
The pricing for the GRAMMYs goes up and the pricing for all of our primetime shows continues to go up and scatter and it'll be up as I've said quite a bit in the next Upfront.
LLC Research Division</strong> Does the pricing for the events the growth there is that exceeding the pricing in your primetime lineup? Is exceeding oh that's...they're both up a lot.
Yes it's close.
It's close.
It really just depends Mike.
There's no trend there.
It's -- the audience and the masses it's going to deserve that premium.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then just on the television studio I mean it's a great asset and growing in value.
You look at the ability to perhaps start populating TV Guide Network and some other things.
How much more capacity do you have with your existing television production business before you perhaps need to make a more significant expenditure acquisition to grow your capacity there? Our executive team I'm sure could do 10 more series if they needed to.
We're doing a series for Turner for the first time a 13-episode series for Turner Network.
So they have a great deal of capacity.
It's not about the studio being able to do it it's about getting the right producers and their staffs to be able to do it.
So I think that there's a great upside in the CBS production group.
People talk about Netflix doing original programming.
We're talking to them about producing for them.
So the great news is we can produce for anybody and we've got a lot more capacity.
We'll go next to Doug Mitchelson with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So some of your broadcast peers have been seeing scatter pricing spiking higher in recent weeks.
Have you seen that? And is that driven by a lack of inventory due to make goods or due to increased advertising demand in the broadcast ad marketplace do you think? Look there clearly is -- some of the other networks that are a little bit more ratings challenged than we are are having a bit more trouble.
So when that happens obviously people want to be with us and I think there's definite demand.
And I think there's more visibility than now than there was a few months ago.
So it's good to be in first place and having -- as we end the season people coming onboard to join us.
Research Division</strong> Would you look at sort of 2Q scatter pricing and you look at 1Q scatter pricing have you seen an improvement or did it just stay at that strong level? I would say it's fairly stable from Q1 to Q2.
Yes I calculated up double digits to low teens Doug and again that's pretty steady.
And the good news is the demand is broad-based.
It's not one category driving it.
So it's coming pretty much across-the-board.
So that's a real positive sign for us.
Research Division</strong> Well Les I think I could almost hear the collective groan of the entire agency industry when you indicated an expectation for high-single to low-double digit upfront price increases.
Well Doug if you've been reading everybody's complaining that I haven't come out with my double-digit projections yet.
I didn't -- because I've done it 2 years in a row.
I've read at least 3 stories which are saying the networks aren't bullish because Moonves hasn't said double digits.
So I have said double digits the last 2 years.
Two years ago we were up 12% to 13%.
Last year we were up around 9%.
So I was slightly off.
But if you average the 2 I certainly was right and I'm confident again.
Look as I said there's a lot of noise this time of year but we are pretty confident in the hand we're playing.
Research Division</strong> Are you including the 3% or so benefit of switching to C7 from C3 in that number? No not yet.
Look right now we're going to be upfront assuming most of it's could be C3 but I can tell you within a year I think it's going to be all converted to C7.
I think it's fair to say.
So 7% isn't in your high-single to low-double digit range right? Correct.
Our next question comes from John Janedis with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Les you mentioned new streaming entrants.
Do you expect those to be a 2013 event? And then separately the TV Guide Network deal seems like a bit of a steal for you can you talk about how you're going to position the programming and over time is the expectation that that's going to be maybe like a top 25 network? The first question I would think some of it may be '13.
It's '13 or '14.
Do you agree Joe? Yes it's not an immediate launch but again John if you're looking for just driving of the numbers just think '14 '15 really but obviously there are partners out there talking about a fall launch.
Yes.
And the TV Guide Network you're absolutely right.
We felt we've got an unbelievable value with this thing and we consider Lionsgate a terrific partner there.
A great content company as are we in different areas and we have a very close relationship with them.
And when they came to us and said "Look this is the ballpark that the other half is going to be going in we would love you to be our partner." There are obviously very simple things that CBS automatically can do.
Like place some of our library product there add our marketing team to what's going on do extended original programming as part of Entertainment Tonight or OMG! Insider doing the red carpets on all these award shows.
So there's a lot of low hanging fruit that we are already taking advantage of and having a base of 80 million subs makes us a very very attractive place to be.
So we're having a lot of fun and we really excited about the future of it.
And we'll go next to Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just to circle back on your comments on the network advertising revenue.
I think you said up low-single digits without -- was it without all the tentpole events or is it without the -- just the Super Bowl? I'm just trying to get a good sense of...
That's underlying.
Basically stripping out kind of all of the onetime changes.
We have the Super Bowl but the NCAA Final Four went into the second quarter.
So really Alexia what we tried to give you is kind of like the underlying base business.
Research Division</strong> And then any color on how daypart -- you mentioned the Emmy nominations are great.
I guess any color on how we should think about the growth in daypart? Obviously the biggest strength is primetime but daytime is growing also.
We have 5 good shows and once again it's a much more profitable daypart than it was even 2 or 3 years ago because we've replaced the high-priced soap operas with obviously a talk show and a game show.
In addition our ratings in news have gone up substantially.
The morning which is the main revenue place we're up over 20% year-to-year in the morning and that's adding revenue quite a bit.
The evening news also is up substantially.
So it's a growth area.
And I would say late night is sort of flat with a year ago and obviously interesting things going on in that daypart.
But may I say I think we've got the best guy in late night and stability is a good thing here.
David Miller with B.
Riley.
Research Division</strong> Following up on David Bank's question.
Obviously Aereo is getting a lot of press of late probably more press than it deserves considering that they are in fact pirating your signal which I'm sure you guys would agree with that.
But Les or Joe if for any reason you guys were able to come up with an agreement with them or retransmission and they were willing to pay does that at all change the scope of your deal with Syncbak because correct me if I'm wrong the Syncbak deal is a defensive mechanism of course against Aereo but it's more or less the same thing as Aereo functionally is it not? David I'll start and I'll let Joe finish.
Aereo really has gotten way too much attention.
As I said yesterday at Milken we're not losing sleep over it.
It's sort of an insignificant player that has a couple of thousand subs and we think ultimately that it goes away.
And we agree with what you just said.
They are pirating our signal.
Would we look at it differently if they came to us as a system an online system that wanted to take our signal and pay for it? Perhaps.
And Syncbak Joe is...
David here's what I'd tell you Syncbak was not in response to Aereo.
We've been talking with Syncbak for quite a number of years actually.
So this technology wasn't developed overnight.
So we're working there.
If the consumer demand is -- this is the way consumers want it obviously we're going to have a business model that satisfies that demand.
So it was really just that simple.
We'll go next to Alan Gould with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I've got 2 questions.
One I hate to beat up -- beat on Aereo again but is there any timing for a lawsuit on Aereo? And the second one is there seem to be measurement issues with TV.
The industry and CBS excluding the Super Bowl are down in the teens in terms of Nielsen 18 to 49 ratings.
So even if you're up high-single digits low-double digits I mean how are the advertisers going to work through the Nielsen measurement issues? Number one regarding Aereo if they put up another signal we'll sue them again.
We won in California.
We lost in New York.
They say they're going to go to Boston and we'll be in Boston and we'll follow it.
Once again it's not a major concern for us.
In terms of the advertising number one the season started off in a very odd way and the reason some of these numbers are off and by the way your numbers are somewhat different than ours is the fact that we don't think that it's -- that online viewing is being counted properly.
And DVR viewing is not being counted properly.
So we think when all is said and done and the appropriate numbers are put into place you're going to find that the numbers are not down nearly as much as that.
And in fact they might surprise you how much they are up.
One of the things that we would love to do in an ideal world is cancel overnight ratings.
Because everybody reports on overnight ratings and they don't attribute the fact that we have over 10 shows that get a lift of over 2 million viewers every single week.
So the numbers that are reported are semi-inaccurate and also Nielsen is trying new methods to account for all the online viewing.
It's not there yet.
So broadcast television cable television it's all in pretty good shape.
Research Division</strong> What numbers are the advertisers going to use this year though Les it's still got to be the Nielsen numbers no? They can use C3 there's a lot more multiplatforming going on.
And when you're dealing with an Upfront -- an Upfront buys [ph] Alan it's not as clean cut as all that.
Rest assured volume -- our volume's going to be up and our CPM's going to be up considerably.
Next question comes from William Bird with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about just how soon you're likely to begin monetizing C4-plus through ad insertion? As I said we anticipate being able to go from C3 to C7.
Some of the deals will be made this year because there are some of the advertisers who get that C4 through 7 is a valuable commodity.
And they get that C8 past C8 like we're doing with our iPad app.
We're putting advertising in there and so it's beginning to happen right away.
Would it be robust within a year? Absolutely.
The thing that's going to be significant is there are going to be a lot of advertisers who advertise C -- live through C7 who are going to still want to be on past that.
And then you'll have ad insertion on different advertisers and there will be further monetization.
I think the good news is the further we do go down the road the more every single viewer will count in some way or another.
Research Division</strong> Could you also talk about your current thoughts on targeted financial leverage? Yes look I think that Bill that evolves.
Because as this Outdoor transaction is pretty significant we're looking at our mix of revenue and how much is advertising related how much is non-advertising.
So again we don't have a set target that it has to be this target ratio.
Obviously our investment grade rating is important to us but again I think we've shown our priority is to buy back our stock and we're going to continue to do that.
Next question comes from Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
A couple of things please.
More on ratings actually.
Isn't moving to tablet measurement and C7 and C8 and beyond whatever doesn't it raise more than just having a single ratings point? Doesn't it make the whole rating system that much more complicated and the whole advertising pricing model that much more complicated? And a second question back on the advertising growth figure.
You mentioned I guess low-single digits excluding the onetime items is that a number that you're happy with? Because it seems it's been at that level for quite a while and yet I don't know I feel like it could be better than that given the success that you're having with viewership et cetera? Tim on your first question does it make it more complicated? Undoubtedly.
Undoubtedly however once again we understand much more now than we did before about ad insertion about conversion from live to C3 to C7.
And you know what? The further we get down the road the further we're going to be able to identify every single viewer every single demographic and what product they're buying.
It is complicated but it's going to be much more valuable in the future.
And Tim as far as the underlying growth I mean I call it steady.
So we're not disappointed with steady.
Obviously with a stronger economic backdrop we expect that to grow but again that's stripping out all of those events but network advertising for the first quarter was up 14%.
Okay can I ask another question as well? It's about retrans.
Have you given -- or can you give some updates on what the most recent pricing is looking like? Well we don't give that out.
As we said it's growing.
The value of our channels and our content is considerable -- going up considerably.
We're sort of been consistent it's been a steady rise until '17 where we're going to have $1 billion if not before.
That question comes from Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
Joe first just a clarification.
Your comment that SVOD in 2013 will exceed 2012 does this assume that Netflix is renewed? Or will you be able to exceed 2012 without a new Netflix deal? And then the second...
There's no -- Marci let me just answer that question.
There's no assumption of a new Netflix deal in that statement.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then I believe in your newsletter you disclosed the number of digital billboards I think for the first time.
That 275 number? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you give us any targets for digital either this year or in total? And maybe the revenue contribution or anything around digital? No here's what I'd say Marci.
The digital billboard component is still low-single digits revenue to us.
I mean that's -- it's such an upside really for us as the capital costs have continued to come down for those digital signs.
So we've been a lot slower than some of our peers to rolling that stuff out.
So again we're quite optimistic that we have a top 50 list and we're going to continue to deploy our capital that way but -- so there's a lot of room to grow.
But again at this point today it's again single digits.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you think you can get to where like LMR [ph] is at 15% to 16% of revenue? I see no reason why we can't.
Great.
Thank you Marci.
And that concludes today's call.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Have a great evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the CBS Corporation Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Teleconference.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to the Executive Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our second quarter 2013 earnings call.
Joining me for today's discussion are Sumner Redstone our Executive Chairman; Leslie Moonves President and CEO; and Joe Ianniello Chief Operating Officer.
Sumner will have opening remarks and we'll turn the call over to Les and Joe who will then discuss the strategic and financial results.
We will then open the call up to questions.
Please note that statements on this conference call relating to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed in CBS Corporation's news releases and securities filings.
A webcast of this call and the earnings release related to today's presentation can be found on the Investors section of our website at cbscorporation.com.
Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information related to this call can be found in our earnings releases or on our website.
And with that it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Sumner.
Thank you Adam.
Good afternoon everyone.
Another quarter another outstanding performance.
I could not be more pleased with CBS's results.
The reason of course the reason behind our success is simple of course.
We have great content.
We have the right strategy we have the people who know how to get the job done.
That's why I am certain that CBS will continue to reach new highs for many many years to come.
Of course to tell you more about it I'm going to turn this over to my good friend and colleague a man I rightfully call a super genius CBS's President and COO Les Moonves.
Les the ball's in your court.
Thank you very much Sumner for those very kind remarks.
And good afternoon everybody and thank you very much for joining us.
I'm pleased to tell you that CBS has delivered yet another quarter for the record books.
We had double-digit revenue growth of 11% to $3.7 billion our best-ever in the second quarter.
And our profits were the best we've achieved in any quarter in our history.
OIBDA of $952 million was up 5% with growth in every single one of our businesses.
Operating income of $838 million was up 6% and EPS of $0.76 was up 12%.
Again all of these profit measures were all-time highs for the CBS Corporation and they were achieved against the spectacular quarter a year ago.
Looking ahead we are well on our way to another record-setting year with lots to look forward to in 2014 and beyond.
The driving force behind our ongoing success is our world-class content.
Throughout our company our programming is commanding top dollar across every platform and our non-advertising revenue sources are becoming more and more meaningful all the time.
During the second quarter nonadvertising revenue represented 43% of our total revenue.
That's quite a jump from not too long ago when less than 30% was the norm.
And we continue to reload our content pipeline for the future.
This summer we debuted 2 exciting new franchise hits Under the Dome on the CBS Television Network and Ray Donovan on Showtime both of which have just been renewed for second seasons and both of which we own 100%.
These are just the latest assets that we can monetize in the content value chain and help us grow our steady and recurring revenue streams in the years ahead.
Meanwhile the advertising marketplace is improving.
Network advertising posted strong growth in the second quarter.
And beginning this fall we will reap the benefits of CBS's leading performance in the upfront marketplace where once again we took share from our competitors and we were the leader in both volume and pricing.
So in addition to our continued growth from retrans reverse comp streaming sub fees and international sales our base advertising business is also set up to perform very well right into 2014 and the future.
Our strategic Outdoor initiatives are also well underway.
I'm extremely pleased that we reached an agreement to sell our Outdoor operations in Europe and Asia at very good value.
And the IPO of our Outdoor Americas business also remains on track for the first quarter of '14.
Joe will have more on this a little later.
These actions in our Outdoor business along with the other growth drivers I just mentioned give us great confidence in our future.
One expression of that confidence came last week when we announced an expansion of our share repurchase program to $6 billion.
This was the single largest increase we've ever made to our program.
And along with our focus on our ongoing dividend it demonstrates once again CBS's continued commitment to its investors.
We've always said that one of the best uses of our strong free cash flow is to return capital to our shareholders and doing so will remain a key priority for us in the future as well.
Before I give you some more highlights about each of our businesses just a quick word about our negotiations with Time Warner Cable.
Our current deal has been extended until Friday at 5:00 p.m.
Eastern and we will update you when we have more news.
Receiving fair value for our content is core to who we are and we will remain resolute in this principle now and in all future negotiations as well.
And that's all we are going to be able to say on this topic today.
Now let's take a look at each of our segments starting with Entertainment.
During the quarter the CBS Television Network finished the season as the most watched network in America.
As you all know by now we've done that 10x in the last 11 years and this time we beat our closest competitor by 4 million viewers the widest margin of victory of any network in 24 years.
We also won in all key demographics including adults 18 to 49 for the first time in more than 2 decades.
Looking ahead to the upcoming television season the strength of our schedule allowed us to renew 20 existing shows.
We'll also be launching 5 new series and these new shows will feature some of the biggest names in the business from producers Jerry Bruckheimer and Chuck Lorre to actors Robin Williams Sarah Michelle Gellar Dylan McDermott and Will Arnett.
Meanwhile before we even get to the fall we're changing the face of summer programming right now with Under the Dome.
This has been the summer's biggest drama since 1992 and proves that network television can launch new programming anytime of the year.
The first episode alone was watched by approximately 20 million people on TV and online.
Since then Under the Dome has continue to dominate Monday nights in viewers and key demos.
And it's providing a tremendous platform to promote our fall lineup.
This show is another example of an owned franchise that we can monetize in all sorts of ways.
In addition to advertising we've struck a terrific streaming deal with Amazon and we've done very well selling the show internationally where the series is being licensed in more than 200 markets and is already a big hit in Canada and Australia.
And of course it's been helpful in retrans and reverse comp negotiations as well.
In addition Big Brother is once again performing very well for us this summer and you can expect us to continue to be more aggressive about using our network platform on a year-round basis going forward.
And speaking of demand for our content around the world we held our international screenings in May for our new shows the response was very strong leading to significant global sales for our CBS Showtime and CW owned content.
Once again this process allows us to ensure revenue for these shows before they even air in the U.S.
and has profoundly changed the business model for owners of the best content.
Streaming continues to be a terrific growth driver for us.
We recently extended our deal with Netflix through 2015 and we also announced a deal with Amazon to stream our CBS and Showtime content in the U.K.
and Germany.
As you can imagine there are lots of players out there looking to get into this space and we're constantly having discussions with them about further monetizing our content.
Meanwhile CBS Interactive has been doing extremely well and turned in another quarter of double-digit revenue growth.
cbs.com is the #1 website among all TV networks in unique viewers and its revenue was up 35% for the quarter.
Interactive revenue in China was up 30% and CNET was up 25%.
Plus we're posting extremely strong growth in mobile ad revenue which was up 93% for the quarter.
At CBS Film we have some releases coming up this year that are generating significant buzz.
In November we'll have Last Vegas starring 5 Academy Award winners Michael Douglas Robert De Niro Morgan Freeman Kevin Klein and Mary Steenburgen.
We'll follow that up in December with the latest from the Cohen brothers Inside Llewyn Davis which won the Grand Prix at this year's Cannes Film Festival.
Again these 2 movies fit our model of medium-sized films with good upside potential.
Turning to cable.
Ray Donovan has come out of the gate as a big wholly-owned hit for Showtime.
It set a record for the debut of the new Showtime series drawing even more viewers than Homeland did in its launch.
And now it's pacing 48% of Homeland's freshman season which has been one of the most celebrated shows in the past few years.
In addition next month we'll premier the new series Masters of Sex.
No this is not a show about the New York City mayoral race but it is yet another show in which we have ownership.
Our success with owned content at Showtime is increasingly allowing us to replicate the long-term content value chain that we have been employing so successfully at the CBS Television Network.
At the same time Showtime's investment in Sports is also paying off.
The first Floyd Mayweather fight since springing him over from HBO is a great success reaching nearly 1 million Pay-Per-Views and we're looking forward to the next Mayweather fight on September 14th when he defends his title against Mexican undefeated middleweight Canelo Alvarez.
This is shaping up to be the biggest fight in very many years.
In Publishing we once again posted solid profit on the strength of our hit titles and our ability to sell these titles on multiple platforms.
This includes the re-release of Stephen Kings' Under the Dome which was a huge seller for us in the second quarter.
Under the Dome is another terrific example of why Simon &amp; Schuster is a great content business for us and fits very well inside CBS.
And speaking of re-releases the excitement about this summer's Great Gatsby film led to a 440% increase in book sales for that title in the quarter proving once again that ownership of great content can pay off for decades.
In Local Broadcasting our strong summer ratings are giving a lift to our TV stations.
Remember that approximately half of local stations' revenues comes from ads in primetime and the late news.
Meaning that when CBS does prime so well local stations benefit considerably.
Of course this is also why we are increasingly getting paid compensation from our affiliates.
In radio we continue to grow our CBS Sports Radio network franchise.
Since we announced the venture last year we have expanded from less than 70 affiliates to more than 300.
We now have programming in all the top 10 markets and in 38 of the top 50.
Once again the CBS Sports Radio network is a terrific example of the way we can grow a business by leveraging resources from across the company.
So as you can see we had another tremendous quarter setting us up for yet another tremendous year.
Every one of our segments contributed to our success obviously led by our content businesses which continue to prove that this is a golden age for those who have the best programming.
All of the growth drivers we've been telling you about for years are performing ahead of our expectations.
And when you look at our importance to cable satellite and telco providers the appetite for our content from the biggest companies in streaming the explosion of international outlets looking to license our content both on television and online you can see why this is happening.
At the same time momentum in our base advertising business is building with primetime network advertising better than it's been in a long time and a political year just around quarter.
So we had a record quarter.
We're on track for another record year.
And clearly we have a very bright future ahead.
With that I will turn this over to our newly elected Chief Operating Officer Joe Ianniello.
Thanks Les and good afternoon everyone.
Today I'm going to provide some more details about our results for the quarter and year-to-date then I'll discuss what we see ahead in Q3 and give you an update on our Outdoor initiatives.
Let's start with the second quarter.
As you just heard CBS delivered very strong top line growth and our best quarterly profits ever.
And we did this while investing in more hours of owned content.
Our strategy of creating and distributing our premium content across all platforms continues to drive our results today and it's creating even bigger opportunities for growth in the future.
In the second quarter revenue was up 11% to $3.7 billion with solid gains in every one of our key revenue types.
Advertising grew 5% driven by an 11% increase at the CBS Television Network which is an acceleration from the first quarter.
Content licensing and distribution revenue grew 22% as a result of increases in international syndication and digital streaming.
And affiliate and subscription fee revenue grew 18% driven by retrans reverse comp and underlying cable affiliate fees as well as our Mayweather pay-per-view fight.
These revenue increases drove second quarter OIBDA up 5% to $952 million plus with lower interest expense and share count we turned this OIBDA increase into strong diluted EPS growth of 12% to $0.76.
And once again these profit measures were all-time records for us.
You can get an even better perspective of the strength and consistency of our performance by looking at our results on a year-to-date basis.
For the first half of 2013 revenue was up 9% to $7.7 billion with strong growth across-the-board.
Advertising was up 7% content licensing and distribution revenue was up 9% and affiliate and subscription fee revenue up 16%.
Meanwhile year-to-date OIBDA was up 9% to $1.9 billion.
Operating income was up 12% to $1.6 billion and diluted EPS was up 17% to $1.49.
Now let's turn to our operating segments.
In Entertainment second quarter revenue of $2 billion grew 18% driven by increases in TV license fees advertising and affiliate fees.
Growth in TV license fees was a result of higher international revenue from both streaming and traditional syndication.
And as I just mentioned network advertising was up 11% partly benefiting from the timing of the NCAA tournament semifinals.
Underlying network advertising grew 4% with such categories as financial services and healthcare up strong double digits.
And CBS Interactive had another strong quarter with revenue also up double digits.
Entertainment OIBDA of $429 million for the quarter was up 1%.
Some of this was affected by expenses related to the timing of the Final Four and our increased investment in programming.
Looking on a year-to-date basis OIBDA grew 9% to $909 million.
Turning to cable.
Second quarter revenue of $518 million was up 16%.
We had affiliate revenue increases across all types of distributors: Traditional cable DBS and telco.
Plus licensing revenue for our original content grew 41%.
Cable OIBDA for the second quarter was up 9% to $207 million reflecting the cost of our investment in sports and original programming including our new hit Ray Donovan.
On a year-to-date basis cable revenue increased 11% to $996 million and OIBDA grew 10% to $438 million.
In Publishing.
Second quarter revenue was even at $189 million.
Publishing OIBDA grew $12 million to $21 million in the quarter.
Our Publishing business continues to benefit from the shift to digital.
For the first 6 months of the year e-book sales grew 25% and represented 30% of total Publishing revenue.
In Local Broadcasting reported revenue for the quarter was down 1% to $698 million.
Nonpolitical TV station revenue increased 1% from last year's second quarter led by telco and Entertainment categories.
Meanwhile radio revenue was even with last year's quarter with auto and professional services up 3%.
Local Broadcasting OIBDA of $255 million was up 3% showing the ongoing benefits of our focus on cost controls achieving a 37% margin up 200 basis points from last year.
On a year-to-date basis Local Broadcasting revenue was up 1% to $1.3 billion while OIBDA of $454 million was up 8%.
In Outdoor Americas second quarter revenue was up slightly to $335 million driven by the U.S.
which grew 2%.
Domestic billboards which is our most valuable piece of the Outdoor business was up a solid 5%.
Tech and auto categories were up both double digits.
Entertainment -- excuse me outdoor OIBDA for the quarter grew 4% to $107 million reflecting our continuing efforts to renew contracts on better terms.
Let's turn to cash flow and how we use that cash.
During the second quarter we generated $414 million of free cash flow net of $150 million discretionary contribution to our pension plan.
We expect this to be the last cash contribution to our pension plan for at least the remainder of the year.
For the first half of 2013 we generated nearly $1 billion in free cash flow again net of this discretionary pension contribution.
We continue to believe that buying back our shares is the best use of excess cash.
As Les said we recently expanded our share repurchase program to a total of $6 billion.
This action once again reaffirms our commitment of returning value to our shareholders and it reflects the confidence and visibility we have going forward in our businesses.
Since the start of the program in January of 2011 through the end of this year's second quarter we returned $3.75 billion and retired a little over 112 million shares at an average price of a $33.41.
Obviously a great value from where we're trading today.
Also during this period we returned $673 million to our investors through our quarterly dividends which currently stand at $0.12 a share per quarter.
Now let me give you a few observations about Q3.
We see several drivers to our 3 main revenue types.
First we expect underlying advertising growth to accelerate.
At the CBS Television Network keep in mind that Under the Dome and Big Brother both premiered at the end of June.
So you'll see substantial benefits of this investment in summer programming beginning in the third quarter.
In addition we'll have more inventory to sell than last year's third quarter when we had several political preemptions.
Also there are no Summer Olympics this year to eat into any of the advertising spend.
And of course we'll begin to reap the rewards of our new upfront pricing gains when the new season begins at the end of the third quarter.
All of this is why we see underlying network advertising accelerating.
On the local side broadcasting is pacing flat to up low-single digits for Q3 despite tough political comps.
At -- Outdoor Americas is also pacing to be up low-single digits.
Turning to our content licensing revenue.
We know that in the third quarter we'll have the first cycle domestic syndication sale of NCIS: Los Angeles and The Good Wife.
And Blue Bloods and Hawaii Five-0 are coming up next year.
In affiliate and subscription fee revenue we will continue to grow our retrans and reverse comp and we have the next Mayweather fight coming up in the third quarter.
Now I'd like to give you a quick update on our Outdoor transactions.
As we announced 2 weeks ago we agreed to sell our Outdoor business in Europe and Asia to Platinum Equity for $225 million.
We anticipate closing this transaction before the end of this year.
And as Les said the separation of our Outdoor Americas business is on track.
We submitted our private letter ruling request with the IRS to convert our Outdoor business into a REIT.
We -- and we filed a preliminary registration statement with the SEC on Form S-11 in June.
Also we made significant progress on our internal infrastructure to set up Outdoor as a separate standalone public company.
So the process is moving ahead as planned and we look forward to realizing the benefits of these initiatives in 2014.
So in summary CBS is building on its great momentum.
We delivered a double-digit revenue increase and our highest quarterly profits ever while continuing to take strategic actions to grow our business.
Our investment in programming has afforded us new content that we can monetize in the days and years ahead and our Outdoor initiatives will help further transform CBS into a company that's even more focused on its content.
So we are still in the early stages of our transformation and the growth prospects we have outlined for you today will continue to drive our earnings into the future.
With that Robby we can open the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
I guess you guys talked a little bit about some of the expense pressure in the Entertainment segment related to the price of content.
And I'm wondering if that's sort of a structural issue or a timing issue or maybe related to ratings performance in the past year leading to more pilots or something like that.
If you can give a little bit more color around that.
And then in the spirit of one question I'll give you a second part of the question that's completely unrelated.
Yes right.
David as we expressed Under the Dome is a brand-new form of entertainment.
We haven't done nor has anybody done an original drama of this size in many many years.
Now the good news for us is because of the Amazon deal and because of the international sale we were able to make this show profitable before it even went on the air.
Now the fact that it went on the air and is a huge hit is really almost gravy and will bring in a ton of profits into the third quarter.
However this is new programming at north of $3 million an episode.
So figure that out.
That's in addition to our programming cost that didn't exist last year.
It's things like that where you will see us invest more in programming but also invest with the knowledge that we're going to get it back and then some.
That show is going to be very profitable for years to come and it's the greatest way to invest our money.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So -- but you -- it's not really about having to have to produced more pilots or something as a result of the prior season just this summer programming? Since I've been here in 1995 we have always done between 18 and 22 pilots and it's remained the same this year.
When we are in last place when we are in first place we do the same number of pilots.
We'll go next to Jessica Reif Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have one for Les which is sort of a follow up to the first and then one for Joe.
Les given the incredible success as you've said in this call of Under the Dome can you talk about how much appetite there is by spot players by distributing players and what do you expect -- you already said that you're going to bring Under the Dome back but is there a lot more room to do more of this kind of first run high-quality programming? Yes I really believe there is.
Obviously the response was tremendous.
Amazon is very pleased that they joined up early in partnership with us.
Jeff Bezos actually spoke to me personally about how pleased they were that they experimented with this.
I think you will see every network and I know they are develop and try to replicate the model that we did.
I doubt many of them will have the same ratings as Under the Dome did.
It was like the second highest-rated new drama of the year.
The numbers were pretty sensational but I think there's a huge appetite with the SVOD players out there to join us plus the international desire for our content is not slowing down at all.
Research Division</strong> And is it just like a summer window that you have or do you think there are other times of the year? Well look we're -- we program all times of the year normally.
We put on -- the question with Under the Dome when we renewed it is do we put on in February or in the summer and we decided to go with the summer.
It's doing numbers that would have made it the second-highest drama on television on network television.
So we consider that but what it means is we get a program all year long from September to September.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Joe I just -- you just increased the buyback and I was wondering if you could give us some sense of timing and what your comfort level will be on leverage post the Outdoor IPO/REIT? Yes sure.
Obviously we reloaded the program getting ready for the Outdoor transaction.
So as we lever that business up and IPO we'll have the capacity to buyback our stock quickly.
We're continuing the same pace as the underlying program goes.
And we're going to continue to relook at our ratios as we become more content focused and less advertising dependent.
So we think we're creating tremendous financial flexibility and this program gives us the ability to capitalize on that.
We'll take our next question from Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> If you look at the Under the Dome viewership I think 1/3 of it was outside of C3 just highlighting again how important it is that we broaden out -- the industry broadens out the measurement.
Can you talk about the upfront and sort of how that went as you think about extending to C7? And also bringing on measurement for screening and tablets what the time line is for there? And then I have a follow-up.
Yes that's a very good question and obviously you're right.
We -- the initial viewing of Under the Dome was $13.7 million.
Then when you added DVR you add streaming and VOD it was north of 20 million people.
So literally 1/3 of them.
Now we did get paid for some of them on the DVR.
I think within a year by the next upfront C7 will be the currency.
I think there are some C7 deals done now because it's a question of reeducation.
But since they were at C3 they're there.
In addition Nielsen is getting better by the day in measuring streaming.
And I think we're closer and closer to our goal of getting every single eyeball measured.
In addition we have ways to measure beyond the C7 and put in more advertising.
So once again all this technology and all this measurement only is going to be helpful for us because everything is going to be counted and we're going to get paid in full.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And Joe if I could just follow up.
You said underlying ad growth should accelerate in Q3.
So at the network am I thinking about 4% is the underlying network growth in Q2 if I back out the March Madness is that the number? Yes.
Yes Ben that's correct.
So the underlying we said would -- clearly going to accelerate in Q3.
We'll go next to Michael Morris with Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have to ask a question about retransmission not specific to any one agreement but -- and I apologize if it seems a bit rhetorical I just want to get your current thoughts.
The pushback that we hear on retrans or the concern is that your signal is available for you to air or there are different services that I won't name but that people could perhaps use to get your signal or the content is on-demand in some places.
So I guess the question is why do you think you should be able to collect this retrans? I realize that's basic and I'm going back in time a little bit but I think it's important to get your thoughts on that now.
And then I have a follow-up.
First of all right now over 85% of our airing our viewing is done through satellite cable or the phone companies.
That's number one.
And the remaining 15% are not the most advertiser-friendly and the most appealing to our advertisers.
Once again these services and you obviously were referring to Aereo and we think it's a lot more wind than reality.
It's an illegal service that would be in essence stealing our content.
We don't think it is catching on at all.
When you see and talking in general terms of the MVPDs charging the amount of money they are to the public for their content we feel like and the have stated it that he who has the most eyeballs should get paid the most.
And since we are the #1 network putting on NFL and putting on the #1 program in NCIS and the #1 comedy in Big Bang Theory that we should be paid appropriately that it's more important to take care of CBS.
Once again all the statistics the average home has 100 channels but they're watching 10 to 15 of them.
And we are one of those 10 to 15.
In every home we're actually #1 in every home so we feel that it is justified and we should get paid for it and that's the way of the world.
And by the way most everybody agrees.
Most everybody agrees and we are getting paid fairly in most places.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then also can you comment at all on the regulatory environment? It seems that if there is any concern on the political side it's just in the perception of disruption is hurting the consumers.
What -- any thoughts you have on that as you approach negotiations? You know what? Some people on the other side have gone to Washington and tried to shake things up.
We have seen absolutely no movement on the part of Washington.
Obviously local leaders are appropriately concerned about their consumers in their areas being disrupted.
And we understand that concern.
We don't feel it's going to change anything.
We're certainly willing to have discussions with them and they are concerned but we're not worried about the regulatory environment affecting our business one iota.
We'll take our next question from Anthony DiClemente with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First off Joe congratulations on your new role.
I have a couple of questions.
First off Joe I wonder if you can clarify for us and for investors how we should be thinking about the sequencing on the Outdoor IPO/REIT? Where are you in terms of the likelihood of getting that PLR before the IPO and are there any benefits for the IPO actually coming before that happens? How should we think about that? Sure.
Look we said Q1 of 2014 and like I said we remain on track for that.
We will -- we filed with the SEC so we got clear of the SEC and we're waiting for the ruling on the IRS.
So the way you should think about it is what we're -- the current plan would be to lever the company up in Q1 of 2014 and IPO within the same quarter.
So those proceeds we would use again to buyback our stock.
If we don't have the private letter ruling at that time obviously we'll have to make a decision at that time based on current market conditions where we go from there.
But we still remain very confident in the process and our ruling request.
Research Division</strong> And then one for Les please if I may.
Les there's some growing evidence out there that mobile advertising is starting to gain some real traction.
I assume that you see that and you wonder the best way for CBS to monetize its content on mobile devices and I know that given your ownership of Syncbak you have the technology to stream CBS or stream the CBS signal direct to mobile viewers for a subscription fee and so forth.
So I guess the question is can you do that? Would you guys consider doing that? Or would your affiliate contracts require you to remain part of an authentication process with your existing distributors? A Syncbak would include our affiliates as well; that we want them to be part of it and Syncbak once again a much more legal use of our signal than Aereo might be.
So look mobile is advertising is growing in leaps and bounds.
We're part of it.
We're right there.
We're on the iPad after 8 days right now and we will be there earlier as soon as it's counted appropriately.
So we welcome mobile.
Once again we welcome all sorts of legal use of our content that is paying us appropriately.
We -- what's great about who we are we continue to do great content and we're very nimble.
We realize the models are changing.
As I referred to in Under the Dome we're now getting paid in a hundred different ways just from that one series.
So we welcome what's happening with technology and we're on top of it.
We'll go next to Doug Mitchelson with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Meghan Durkin standing in for Doug.
I wanted to just get your feeling on how you are set up going into the new season.
It's seems like you're positioned pretty well given your comps aren't going to be as tough on Mondays and you get the political hours back and the NFL networking where there were last year for the full 13 games or whatever it was.
So how do you feel about that? How should we be thinking about it? Well you sort of answered my question there.
I mean there's a lot less political hours from conventions from primaries from debates.
Remember there were 4 debates election night.
We only have 5 new shows not every single one of them are going to work but they're all positioned in very good time periods where they can work.
We do expect to improve on a few nights of the week and we're very pleased with the process and how our schedule looks for the fall.
Look this is spring training and everybody thinks they're going to do great as you get closer.
But having returned 20 shows we sort of know we're going to be in great shape no matter what else happens that 20 shows will perform and we'll get an opportunity to launch some of them and we think we have a couple of real super hits there.
So we're very excited and once again the NFL is going to be strong no political we can't wait for the fall to begin.
We'll go next to Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My question is the -- on retransmission discussions in general not specific to any one but do you find that they're getting more challenging now than they have been more given that more people have their hands out? Or is it just each one is its own animal and they're all the same kind of in a way? I think each one is its own animal.
Look each contract has different components and different requirements and you have different relationships with all these people.
So look every deal that we've made in the last 2 years has been an improvement from the one before.
And I think once again our job is to continue to produce the content that we're doing and get paid fairly for it so -- and each one is the same.
[indiscernible] is not the same.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on you're recent Netflix renewal.
Any sense of how we could look at the revenue recognition the timing of revenue for that renewal? Yes Alexia we have some flexibility.
We make those shows available to Netflix.
So again really it's going to depend.
I think again the takeaway is we renewed and extended the relationship so it continues to work well into '15.
They're pleased with our product.
So we're going to continue again as Les said produce the best content and continue to figure out ways to maximize the revenue.
The timing of when it hits and what year and what quarter is really secondary.
We'll go next to John Janedis with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Les I'm wondering with the FOX Sports 1 launch coming are you seeing any change in the dynamic for the sports business given the increased inventory for sale? And is it impact pricing? You know what? We haven't really seen any great effect of it.
We're obviously going into football season for us and that's doing very well.
In addition our sports network although relatively small in terms of advertising is seeing growth in that area as well.
By the way I'm very happy we have our 4 major sports rights tied up for the next decade because clearly the price of poker may go up but we have the NFL we have the NCAA we have the PGA TOUR golf and we have the FCC football contracts so I'm really happy about that.
Obviously Fox is putting a lot of money and effort into it.
They know what they're doing.
I think they're clearly competing more with the ESPN than with us.
And football sales look strong for the fall.
We'll take our next question from Laura Martin with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Les one of the things we're seeing in the Internet premium video market is prices for video ads under pressure.
A year ago they were $23 CPM.
Today Yahoo! is telling us they're getting $18 CPM.
And that's the problem with infinite inventory.
But I'm wondering looking at your upfront where you came in at kind of 8% 9% and I think with hopes for double-digit as we've gotten the last couple of years.
Do you think increasing premium video online is putting downward pressure in your business as well as the Internet premium video business? You know what? We don't look at it that way.
Yes we ended up close to 8% and we sort of said high singles low doubles and we were high singles.
I think your assessment about Internet video becoming bigger and stronger and there's a lot available there's scarcity still doesn't compare to what the network can bring.
And I even noticed our competitors got substantial price increases as well which actually surprised me how well they did.
So look I'm glad we're in the Internet video market but I'm even happier that we're the #1 television network and getting paid the right amount for our ads.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then my follow-up is on again back to this Under the Dome which is such an interesting model.
We saw Netflix pay DreamWorks for 300 hours of kids programming a type of programming DreamWorks has never done.
Do you think we're going to see you guys kind of front and center of a lot of these SVOD platforms coming to you like Under the Dome because of your success and we're going to see a lot of new -- like a new profit center that we aren't thinking about from these guys getting you to produce content for them? That's exactly right.
We are looking forward to producing content for all these guys.
For Netflix for Amazon.
When people say "Oh gee is Netflix a competitor?" Netflix is doing original content.
They're buying a lot of good movie packages.
Are they a competitor to Showtime? Probably.
But by the same token the CBS company would be happy to produce for them.
Under the Dome is an exciting new model.
And when you think about it it's getting a lot of noise but it's something that hasn't existed in many many years.
But without Amazon's help and without the strong international marketplace we couldn't have done that with normal summer pricing for programming.
Now with these guys wanting to get involved and get involved early the sky is the limit in terms of that and what great assets they're creating for us.
So we're happy they're around.
And we'll go next to Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
I have 2 advertising-related questions please.
First I think the answer is no but anything you could say please about any impacts from the recent Publicis Omnicom merger that forming a major media buying agency.
I just wondered if any of you can say in terms of how negotiations may work under that new arrangement? Secondly your interactive growth looks like it was excellent and I wonder if you could say anything about Nielsen's online campaign ratings? And -- or cross-platform ratings and if is being used and if that makes any difference? I'll answer the first and Joe you can answer the second.
The first it really is too early to tell.
I remember we had been concerned when WPP was amassing all those variety of advertising agencies and we were able to do a lot of business with them as we do with -- we have great relations with both Omnicom and Publicis.
And once again it's about -- we have good business with them.
We'll see what it becomes like in the future.
But in talking to our head of sales about it just the other day Jo Ann had no great concerns.
She said look we know the guys we know the brands.
It's not going to affect how we do business but it really is too early to tell.
And Tim on the interactive growth I think again what's driving the growth really again is the content.
It's the premium video that's doing it.
Clearly obviously it helps if Nielsen is measuring this and you can always back things up with advertisers and give them metrics it always gives us another data point but I think again the content is really what's driving the growth.
We'll go next to Alan Gould with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Les you may be seeing this less than your competitors given the strength of CBS but as the cable networks are getting closer to the reach of broadcast networks do you see a decline coming in the cable broadcast CPM gap? Number one I don't particularly see that gap changing all that much.
It has on a few shows but there's still a wide margin between their hits and our hits.
I mean NCIS is still watched by north of 20 million people every single week.
Other than The Walking Dead there hasn't been a cable show that's come even close to it on premium or on basic.
And once again they're doing some quality programming.
So we don't view them as a threat in terms of taking our pricing anywhere.
Our pricing has gone up for the last number of years and we think that will continue.
We'll go next to William Bird with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Les could you talk a little bit about just your strategy and plans for TVGN? And then separately how would you rate the likelihood for streaming deals with new players in the next 6 months? Okay.
TVGN great acquisition cheap price for our half.
Lionsgate a great partner great -- other content company.
There was a lot of low-hanging fruit.
We put on Young and the Restless repeats and we put on Big Brother: After Dark which increased the ratings like hundreds and hundreds percent.
Now I realize that made -- that you saw the low number doing that.
But it's the highest rating they've ever had.
There are a lot of plans incorporating more CBS content more live event programming from the red carpets et cetera.
So it's been so far wonderful and as I said Lionsgate is a great partner and our people are very excited and we're already seeing great results from advertising agencies as well.
In terms of new streaming deals we've had a lot of conversations.
I don't know who's going to be the first one to step up to the plate.
Whether it happens within 6 months I don't know it's possible with some of them.
But we're talking to everybody and there are a lot of very interesting things going on out there.
So I hate to be so general but I really don't know much more than that.
We'll go next to Jim Goss with Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions.
First I was wondering does the consolidation in station ownership that appears to be underway seem likely to benefit their group pre-transmission [ph] efforts and therefore your potential for a reverse comp and does it also prompt you to consider any additional property transactions buying or selling mode in that area? Good question Jim.
Look the consolidation the acquisitions number one only proves how valuable television stations are in this day and age.
We have 27 of them.
We have 27 of them and once again we're happy we held on to them.
We're happy we didn't get rid of any them because it only bodes well for the future.
Does the consolidation mean they will get more retrans? That's a very possible outcome of this.
It's very interesting to see where the landscape comes out.
We look forward to -- we have great relationships with all the big companies and we don't think our relationships should change and everybody is moving towards you have to pay for the guys who have the best content.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And separately does the -- how is the value of your older content faring as Netflix and Amazon focus on newer and/or proprietary series? Some of it works some of it doesn't work like everything else.
I mean we sold Netflix a huge bundle of content as you remember a few years back.
Some of it did extraordinarily well.
I mean they'd kill for more Star Trek episodes.
They love that.
Some of it not so well.
But once again we've as mentioned before as Joe mentioned we've renewed the deal through 2015 and it has some of what was existing before and some of it going forward.
So the good news about us is we have great current programming and we have a great library and we will sell them both as need be.
Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first Joe can you give us a little bit more color on the Q3 pace and maybe separate what's going on with the TV stations same station radio and then the U.S.
Billboard business? And then the second question is just have you gotten any indication from the IRS whether or not you'll get the private letter ruling even if it the work group study is not finished by year end? I don't know if your comments about your private letter ruling not coming by year-end had anything to do with this work group study.
Yes.
No look the work group study again is really again been a nonfactor in terms of -- the dealing with the IRS.
Whatever internal process they go through I guess is obviously up to their discretion.
But again we continue to have an open dialogue with them and we'd never expected to have our ruling in hand today.
So again right now it's the normal course and we'll evaluate that and update you again as we know more.
But again we are pretty confident in our request.
As far as color on Q3 look U.S.
Billboards again is the bread-and-butter.
So that's definitely kind of leading the way but I would kind of characterize the U.S.
the Outdoor business again up that low-single digits range 1% to 3%.
And looking at Local Broadcasting radio is kind of pacing flat and TV remember we have a difficult comp in political.
So we'll see how that kind shakes out exactly but as I said earlier kind of flat to up low-single digits again is pretty impressive given the tough political comp from a year ago.
Great.
Thanks Marci and this concludes today's call.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Have a great evening.
That does conclude today's call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the CBS Corporation Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Teleconference.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Executive Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good afternoon everyone and welcome to our third quarter 2013 earnings call.
Joining me for today's discussion are Sumner Redstone our Executive Chairman; Leslie Moonves President and CEO; and Joe Ianniello Chief Operating Officer.
Sumner will have opening remarks and we'll turn the call over to Les and Joe who will then discuss the strategic and financial results.
We will then open up the call to questions.
Please note that during today's conference call certain 2013 actual results will be compared against 2012 adjusted results.
Reconciliation for non-GAAP financial information related to this call can be found in our earnings release or on our website.
In addition statements in this conference call relating to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed in CBS Corporation's news releases and security filings.
A webcast of this call and the earnings release for today's presentation can be found on the Investors section of our website at cbscorporation.com.
And with that it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Sumner.
Thank you Adam.
Good afternoon everyone.
I am once again extremely pleased for CBS's third quarter.
We are clearly on our way to have an outstanding year.
Our contents commands a premium across every platform.
And with Les and his team leading the way we've got a long long way to go.
So without further ado I'll turn the call over to my good friend and colleague CBS's President and Chief Executive the man I could call a miracle worker.
Thank you Sumner for that nice introduction.
Good afternoon everybody and thank you for joining us.
I'm pleased to report today that CBS has currently gained its best third quarter in our history in all key metrics including double-digit revenue growth and healthy increases in OIBDA operating income and EPS.
Revenue was up 11% to $3.6 billion.
OIBDA was up 4% to $941 million.
Operating income was up 5% to $828 million.
And EPS was up 19% to $0.76.
These results are very consistent with what you've been seeing all year long.
We've had a record-breaking first half followed by this best third quarter we've ever had.
And we're well on our way to a record full year in 2013.
As you'll hear today we're also extremely confident we'll have a terrific 2014 and many years beyond that as well.
The reason we continue to post such strong results and have such great confidence on our future is because in addition to the vitality of our base business our fast-growing nonadvertising revenue streams are getting better all the time.
This concludes continued healthy increases in international syndication digital streaming cable affiliate fees and of course retrans and reverse comp.
Speaking of that I know you've all been focused on the Time Warner Cable dispute the factors that the blackout did not negatively affect our company's third quarter results and obviously has led to dramatic gains in retrans which is now up 50% year-to-date.
And you'll see even bigger increases in the years to come.
In addition and very importantly we also retained full digital rights to our content giving us the flexibility to do a number of deals since we struck the Time Warner Cable one.
These include our first major streaming deal for Showtime series with Netflix a deal with Comcast to license our content to its online Streampix service an agreement to bring the Smithsonian network to Apple TV and expansion of our CBS app to include all of our primetime shows on both the iOS and Android platforms a new international streaming deal for Under the Dome with Amazon to go along with the domestic agreement we already have with them our second streaming deal with Latin America and the Caribbean and others as well with more to come.
But once again these deals show the importance of retaining our digital rights.
Plus this constant flow of deals has brought our mix of advertising and nonadvertising revenue to a virtual 50-50 split for the first time ever.
It's quite a different story from just a few years ago when it was more like 70-30.
The good news is that our traditional advertising business is also growing strongly including network advertising which was up 13% during the quarter the highest in many many years.
The driving force behind our continued strong performance is CBS's evolution into a company focused around content.
And once the separation of our Outdoor Americas business is complete you'll be seeing more quarters like this one with about 1/2 of our revenue coming from non-advertising sources.
Plus the moves we are making in Outdoor as well as the continued health of our company will enable us to return more value to our investors.
We've always said that returning capital to shareholders is a key priority for us.
And you can be certain that it will continue going forward as well.
Now let's take a look at the performance of each of our businesses starting with Entertainment.
Then I'll turn it over to Joe for more insight into our results followed by your questions.
The company's terrific third quarter numbers were driven by our successful summer programming schedule on the CBS Television Network.
We greatly increased our output of original programming including the expanded schedule for Big Brother new episodes of Unforgettable and the debut of Under the Dome.
As you know ratings for Under the Dome were beyond all expectations.
And we own 100% of this new franchise meaning we will continue to monetize it for years to come.
Next summer we'll have season 2 of Under the Dome as well as another new original series called Extant which is also from Steven Spielberg's Amblin Entertainment and stars Halley Berry in her first television series.
Just like Under the Dome we own Extant 100%.
Through the success of our summer programming we have in essence created a whole new day-part where we are now generating significant new advertising revenue creating new digital streaming models to fund production and launching new own content franchises that will pay off for years to come.
Our momentum has continued into the fall season where CBS is once again the most watched network.
We have 3 of the top 5 shows on television and 14 time-period winning programs more than all of the other networks combined.
We also have the top 3 new comedies in The Millers The Crazy Ones and Mom.
Plus we have the #1 show on television NCIS the #1 comedy in The Big Bang Theory.
Both of these the shows are pulling in more than 20 million viewers a week and thanks to the strength of our schedule scattered here in the fourth quarter is up double digits above the upfront and double digits above this time last year as well.
At the same time there are also some exciting developments underway in the network television business model.
We are moving towards the universal.
And we get paid fair value for every impression we offer to our advertisers.
This is still evolving but it's inevitable and will benefit us in a number of ways.
First VOD viewing is now being measured by Nielsen.
And we're getting paid for the viewing that occurs within the first 3 days of air.
Next as you've heard before were having discussions about changing the standard measurement window beyond 3 days.
We have already concluded deals with some significant clients for 7-day viewing.
And we expect this to be the norm for next season.
There is clearly value in advertising that's seen between days 4 and 7 and beyond that as well.
We intend to monetize that viewing going forward.
In addition technology will increasingly allow programmers to insert clients up to the minute messages no matter when a program is watched.
The current buzzword for this is dynamic ad insertion.
And it's another great growth opportunity for us.
Plus all of this doesn't even take into consideration the ad dollars we generate when our programming is viewed on the Internet as evidenced by another strong quarter of double-digit revenue growth at CBS Interactive.
So from VOD to 7-day viewing to dynamic ad insertion to Internet streaming we are on our way to monetizing every eyeball that's viewing our content.
It's clear that in this era of ever-changing technology the world can no longer be looked at as it used to be.
And measurement continues to get more sophisticated the future for us looks very bright.
And that goes for live events too where we continue to generate bigger and bigger audiences.
During the quarter our broadcast of the primetime Emmy awards delivered the show's largest audience in 8 years.
Meanwhile our NFL football ratings are 5% ahead of last year's huge numbers including the highest-rated games so far this season when the Broncos came back to win against the Cowboys.
And our SEC football coverage is up 23% for the season led by the Alabama-Texas A&amp;M matchup which threw our best ratings for a regular-season afternoon college football game in 23 years.
These strong ratings by the way are being sold into a very healthy sports marketplace here in the fourth quarter.
In addition our live events are increasingly getting a lift from social media which is proving to be a powerful complementary platform for us.
And thanks to new deals like our amplifying initiative with Twitter we're not only benefiting promotionally but we're now beginning to monetize clips of these events as well.
Speaking of big events CBS Films is coming off a terrific opening for Last Vegas.
With a modest budget the movie exceeds expectations over the weekend by pulling in north of $16 million at the box office and has done significant business since then as well.
Plus it earned an A- in the score rating meaning that it stands to have strong legs in the weeks ahead.
And later in the quarter we look forward to the premiere of Inside Llewyn Davis from the Coen brothers which earlier this year won the Grand Prix of the Cannes Film Festival.
Turning to news quality continues to translate into quantity as exceptional coverage leads to high ratings.
CBS This Morning CBS Evening News with Scott Pelley CBS Sunday Morning and Face the Nation are all delivering their highest ratings in years.
And 60 Minutes remains the #1 news program overall.
Plus just a few weeks ago CBS News won 12 Emmy awards the most of any network and far more than the other 2 major broadcast networks combined.
So our content is hitting on all cylinders.
And its success is fueling our ability to get paid in all sorts of other ways as well.
For example one of the key drivers during the quarter was the domestic syndication sale of both NCIS: L.A.
and The Good Wife which led to 18% growth in content licensing and distribution.
We are now replicating this kind of syndication success at Showtime which I'll talk about in a minute.
And across the company we are replenishing the pipeline with new owned franchises that will continue to drive our results.
This includes the recently announced new spinoff of NCIS that will be set in New Orleans and will also be produced by CBS Studios.
Internationally we're once again using our content as a form of investment and to new markets.
During the quarter we announced a deal with one of the largest media companies in Europe the RTL group to expand into 29 markets across Asia.
Going forward we will continue to take advantage of opportunities to expand our footprint through ventures like this.
And as I mentioned we are also beginning to receive fair value for our content in retrans and reverse comp.
We are the #1 network.
And we will continue to negotiate rates that are more in line with the numbers of viewers we bring to our programming distributors.
It was obviously unfortunate that we could not reach a deal with Time Warner Cable more quickly and peaceably just as we did with Verizon FiOS.
But we emerged with better rates full digital flexibility and more viewers.
And our record breaking third quarter results today speak for themselves.
This is also the first time remember in over 100 negotiations in the past few years that we have ever gone dark.
Going forward we are optimistic that we will forge new deals that recognize the full value of CBS.
And we also look forward to striking new agreements with our affiliates for reverse compensation many of which are coming up for renegotiation at the end of next year.
Meanwhile in Cable we also continue to make progress in rates as well as distribution.
Showtime is growing subs for 10 straight years.
And the CBS Sports Network is now in more than 50 million homes with significantly more to come in '14.
Of course original programming is the core of our success at Showtime.
Homeland remains the network's #1 show.
A new season is 25% ahead of the last one.
Our newest series Masters of Sex has also become a hit with ratings 31% higher than Homeland's fresh new season.
And both of these shows have of course been renewed.
In addition as I mentioned earlier we have begun licensing our Showtime programs just as we've done so successfully at CBS.
A few weeks ago we announced the deal to license Dexter to Netflix.
And we're in the process of licensing the show to various cable networks and local broadcast groups as well.
When it's said and done we will have achieved the same sort of syndication value per show for Dexter as we have for NCIS: L.A.
and The Good Wife.
Plus we will continue to make Dexter available to subscribers on our Showtime Anytime app.
And now our latest hit Ray Donovan has finished its freshman season as Showtime's top-rated new series.
And we own it 100%.
So you can expect to see the benefits of this new series into the future as well.
Meanwhile our new boxing deal with Floyd Mayweather has taken Showtime Sports to a whole new level.
Last month's Mayweather-Canelo Alvarez fight was the highest grossing pay-per-view event of all time.
And we look forward to continuing to grow this franchise in the years ahead.
Also in Cable our recent investment in the TV Guide Network has begun extremely well.
Over the summer we added CBS programming into the mix resulting in triple-digit ratings increases.
In Publishing we also had a strong quarter Simon &amp; Schuster turning solid revenue growth and even better profit growth.
And digital book sales were up 39%.
Meanwhile excluding political from a year ago Local Broadcasting revenue was also up during the quarter.
And our New York duopoly including our flagship station WCBS was up 10%.
And that includes political from last year.
This double-digit growth was achieved during a quarter when the station was dark during the entire month of August.
Just to show how strong we came out of that in the month immediately following the blackout WCBS was the top billing station in the country.
Turning to radio the CBS Sports Radio network continues to help drive our results.
Plus digital revenue was up 19% in the quarter.
And nontraditional revenue including our growing local events business was up 9%.
So across the company this was a terrific quarter.
The performance of our base business was extremely strong.
And our newest fast-growing nonadvertising revenue sources are having a dramatic impact on the results.
As I said we already know that 2013 will be CBS's best year ever.
We're now fully focused on executing the same sort of success in 2014 and beyond.
Here's why we're so confident in where we're headed.
First we have 2 more of our hit shows Hawaii Five-0 and Blue Bloods going into first-cycle syndication next year.
And we have refilled the pipeline to the years ahead with shows like Elementary Ray Donovan Under the Dome The Millers and more on the way.
Next we'll continue to renegotiate our retrans and reverse comp deals to recognize the fair market value of CBS.
Our 2 major deals this summer reset the bar for just 20% of our footprint meaning there's a lot more growth to come.
As a result we are now tracking well ahead of the $1 billion in 2017 that we've told you about in the past.
In addition 2014 is another political year.
We fully expect to surpass 2012 because midterm elections historically generate more revenues for us.
And we have a number of big elections coming up in our O&amp;O markets.
Considering the rhetoric in Washington there will be a lot of money raised and spent next year.
And as always rancor equals revenue.
Plus we have closed on our sale of our Outdoor business in Europe and Asia.
And the separation of our Outdoor Americas business next year will mean that roughly 1/2 of CBS's revenue going forward will come from steady and recurring sources.
This move will also greatly solidify our ability to return value to shareholders.
Joe will give you an update on all this in a little bit.
Finally as we continue to evolve into a company that is all about premium content I'm particularly excited about the work we're doing across CBS to create and own new programming.
Each new franchise we produce allows us to take advantage of the increasing financial opportunities afforded by technology.
And this is what will drive CBS to continued future success.
Thank you.
And with that I'll turn it over to Jeff.
Thanks Les and good afternoon everyone.
Today I'm going to provide some more details about our third quarter results.
Then I'll talk about what we see had and lastly give you an update on our Outdoor initiatives.
Let's start with the third quarter.
Our third quarter results once again demonstrate the benefits of CBS's ongoing evolution as we continue to monetize our content across all platforms.
During the quarter our established hit shows fueled increases in streaming and syndication while our new programming drove advertising revenue higher.
And we replenished our content pipeline for more growth down the road.
Our third quarter revenue of $3.6 billion was up 11%.
And we had increases in every one of our key revenue types.
Advertising revenue continued to accelerate and grew 4% for the quarter driven by the success of our game-changing summer lineup at the CBS Television Network.
Content licensing and distribution was up 18% primarily a result of higher syndication revenue from NCIS: Los Angeles and The Good Wife.
And affiliate and subscription fees were up 23% led by our Floyd Mayweather pay-per-view fight higher retrans and reverse compensation and continued underlying growth at Showtime and the CBS Sports Network.
OIBDA of $941 million was up 4% which includes significant investment in programming with our 2 new franchise hits of the summer Under the Dome and Ray Donovan as well as the Mayweather fight.
We turned that OIBDA increase into net income growth of 12%.
And together with the benefit of our share buyback program we delivered EPS growth of 70 -- of 19% to $0.76 per share.
On a year-to-date basis the story is very consistent as well.
Year-to-date revenue of $11.4 billion was up 9%.
Year-to-date OIBDA of $2.8 billion was up 7%.
Year-to-date operating income of $2.5 billion was up 9%.
And year-to-date EPS of $2.25 was up 18%.
These results are the best we have ever reported in a 9-month period and puts us in a position for another record-breaking year in 2013.
Now let's turn to our operating segments.
Entertainment revenue of $1.9 billion for the third quarter was up 12% driven by strong gains in retrans syndication and streaming as well as a 13% increase in network advertising the highest quarterly increase in several years.
In addition CBS Interactive revenue grew 15%.
Entertainment OIBDA was up 12% to $431 million driven by the healthy revenue increases that I just mentioned.
And the OIBDA margin held steady at a solid 23%.
In our Cable Networks segment Q3 revenue of $596 million was up 37% year-over-year driven by a number of factors including the Mayweather fight higher content licensing from Dexter and Ray Donovan and underlying traditional affiliate revenue growth with continued increases in both rates and subscribers.
Cable OIBDA of $261 million was up 15% reflecting strong revenue growth as well as higher program costs for sports and original series.
Even with the pay-per-view event the Cable OIBDA margin was a solid 44% for the quarter.
Turning to Publishing third quarter revenue of $224 million was up 7% on strong digital and print sales led by Doctor Sleep by Stephen King and our 3 Duck Commander titles.
And yes we also monetize those Duck Dynasty guys.
Across the segment e-books represented 27% of the total revenue up from 21% in the third quarter of last year.
The growth of the more profitable digital sales also led to a 10% increase in OIBDA to $43 million.
And the Publishing OIBDA margin expanded to an all-time high of 19% which demonstrates that we can continue to grow the margin as the business shifts to more and more digital.
In Local Broadcasting nonpolitical revenue was up 1% with TV stations up slightly and radio up 2%.
Reported results were obviously affected by last year's political spending.
As Les said in our largest market New York TV station advertising revenue was up 10%.
And that includes the impact of the Time Warner Cable disruption.
The 2 biggest advertising categories of this segment Automotive and Entertainment were both up low single-digits.
Local Broadcasting OIBDA of $181 million was down 15% for the quarter due to the top political advertising comparison to last year and the benefit we received from a new music royalty agreement in Q3 of 2012.
At Outdoor Americas third quarter revenue of $341 million was up 2% led by the U.S.
billboard and displays business up 4%.
Outdoor OIBDA of $110 million grew 5% in the third quarter.
And the Outdoor OIBDA margin expanded 100 basis points to 32%.
Turning to cash flow and our balance sheet.
Free cash flow came in at $402 million for the quarter.
That's more than double the $182 million we had in Q3 of 2012 which also included a $60 million payment for our debt refinancings.
Year-to-date free cash flow of $1.4 billion is up over last year even with a $150 million discretionary pension payment.
We continue to believe that the highest and best use of our excess cash is to buy back our stock.
During the third quarter we used $279 million of our authorization to retire more than 5 million shares of our stock.
Year-to-date we have returned more than $1.8 billion to our shareholders by retiring nearly 40 million shares at an average price of $46 per share.
And from the time and share repurchase program was initiated in January 2011 through the end of this year's third quarter we have returned more than $4.7 billion of value to shareholders.
That includes $746 million in quarterly dividends as well as $4 billion used to retire 117 million shares at an average price of $34 per share.
So as of September 30 we had $5.8 billion remaining on our share repurchase program.
And we expect to repurchase $2.2 billion of our stock this year which implies an accelerated pace of buyback in Q4.
Also at the end of the third quarter we had $226 million of cash on hand.
Now let me give you a few observations of what we see ahead in Q4.
Network advertising is performing strongly.
As Les said scatter pricing is up double digits at the CBS Television Network.
Our Local Broadcasting on a nonpolitical basis our TV stations are pacing to be up high-single digits.
And radio is pacing to be up low-single digits.
Meanwhile Outdoor is pacing to be up low- to mid-single digits.
Now let me give you an update on our Outdoor transactions.
In January we announced our intention to sell our Outdoor business in Europe and Asia and pursue the conversion of our Outdoor Americas business into a REIT.
We already accomplished the first initiative as we closed on a sale of our Europe and Asia business during the third quarter.
And we have made great strides in the separation of our Americas business as well.
During the first quarter we filed a private letter ruling request with the IRS.
And in Q2 we filed a registration statement with the SEC just as we said we would.
In addition we also brought in Jeremy Male from JCDecaux as our CEO to help lead the IPO.
So the separation of our Outdoor Americas business is progressing well and remains on track for 2014.
In summary we are on a great run.
We have many growth drivers ahead starting with next year's political campaigns and the completion of our Outdoor initiatives.
Beyond that syndication and streaming will continue to thrive as we replenish our pipeline.
And of course higher retrans and reverse compensation will continue as we renegotiate our contracts to reflect the fair value of our content.
We are successfully transforming CBS into a content-centric company with an increased emphasis on non-advertising revenue.
As a result we are diversifying our revenue mix returning more capital to shareholders and driving EPS growth.
So we are on track for another record 2013.
And we're very excited about our future.
With that Tom you can open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Les you've been able to bring some pretty significant procedurals to syndication for a while here.
And obviously you got one -- a couple this year a couple next year.
And there's concern you'll run out of bullets as we head into '15.
You made some comments in your prepared remarks that suggest you've got some more.
Can you talk about sort of Elementary and where that is in terms of getting to that second cycle promise land? Is '15 realistic? And then on the colony front it's been a long time I think since maybe Raymond that you've had an owned comedy make it to second cycle off net.
How are you feeling about I know it's very early days but how are you feeling about the new comedies on the network? And do you think we can start thinking about what those could mean to the company over the long term? Yes.
Regarding Elementary Elementary is Thursday night 10:00.
It's doing very very well especially the 10:00 shows when you take in the C3 and the C7 numbers.
Elementary is one of the biggest jump-ups.
It's almost a gain of 4 million viewers in the first weeks of that.
So Elementary is going to be a very powerful tool.
And obviously since we own it and since the world is changing rapidly we absolutely have the ability to put it out into syndication in a variety of ways in '15.
Regarding the comedies I'm really excited about The Millers.
It's performing very well.
It's our first owned comedy you're right in a few years.
And we think it has a terrific cast and a terrific off-season great producer.
And the numbers are hanging in there very nicely.
And we expect that it's going to be there for the long run which as you know can turn into a major major revenue stream.
So we're really excited about it.
Look between CBS and Showtime there's the constant drive to own more and more of our content as exhibited by Under the Dome and what we have next summer.
And frankly I'm very excited about another brand-new NCIS which the pilot's going to be on in April and hopefully is on the schedule next fall.
And that begins once again when you have billion-dollar franchises it's good to have the third brother in the lock coming up.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then just as a follow-up for Joe on the expense side.
The incremental margins at Entertainment Joe were a little lower than they've been in the first half.
I know there's a lot of volatility quarter-to-quarter but can you just talk about any context you'd give us around the expense trends at Entertainment this quarter? Yes sure.
Ben now look I think it's more driven by more original hours of content.
And again we're comping against a lot of political preemptions of last year.
So think about more hours investing in it.
It's our best ROI when we can have these hit franchises.
So we're actually I look at it Ben is we're able to maintain the margin.
If I was looking at margin on a year-to-date basis and if you look at the company I think year-to-date it's 25% compared to last year 25% but we're building for the future.
So I think again it's a very healthy mix.
Our next question comes from Jessica Reif Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Same thing one for Les and one for Joe.
So Les obviously the biggest value driver for the company has been the creation of very successful content.
How much further -- you mentioned that you want to use both Showtime and CBS's platforms maybe CW as well.
But could you just talk about how much room there is to expand how much more can you scale up? There's always -- remember I said it's difficult for producers to say "Well gee your schedule was pretty packed with a lot of hits." But guess what? We have -- we always have 4 or 5 that we put on the fall.
We always have room for more there as well as Showtime can continue to expand.
The same thing with the CW.
We have a very successful production company at the studio which has 20-some-odd shows in production.
Showtime is doing their own production.
Syndication continues to do very well.
And we've created as we said a whole new day-part in the summer now.
So the idea Under the Dome the economics are fabulous.
We started out saying "All right how can we do original programming in the summer?" And when we took an international number and add that to the Amazon number suddenly we covered the cost of production.
So we were in profit before the show even went on the air in the summer.
And then when it ended up being a hit that turned into all profit in the summer.
We intend to do that with Extant and year 2 of Under the Dome of which we own 100%.
So it's sort of this fairly unlimited what we're going to be able to produce.
In addition we're starting to produce 4 other services as well.
We are producing some cable shows.
And so the sky's the limit.
Research Division</strong> And then for Joe I just want to go back to the Outdoor disposition.
You mentioned the IPO is Q1.
How should we think about the use in timing of proceeds? And what is the potential to lever up now that revenue once you -- once it's separated revenue from advertising is 50% or so? I got it.
Sure Jessica.
Look our expectation is in Q1 we will have the IPO.
So the Outdoor business would lever up.
And so the cash we receive CBS receives via dividend from that plus the IPO proceeds we will look at that to reduce shares outstanding and accelerate our share buyback.
Then we will follow that up probably Q2 Q3 with a split-off transaction which will act again as a another share buyback whether it will be in exchange of preferred 20 business days.
So that's the current plan and intention.
So we're feeling pretty good about that.
Obviously as Les said we are changing the mix of this company to 50-50.
So we're absolutely creating financial flexibility on the balance sheet.
And we're feeling again also very good about that.
So 2014 I think we get the kind of -- reshape the capital structure here with Outdoor and looking at again our leverage capacity.
Our next question comes from David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think you guys syndicated NCIS: L.A.
after 6 episodes.
Does that mean NCIS: New Orleans before you even have it they expected to be [indiscernible] Yes.
We're going to wait until the first commercial break.
And then we're going to syndicate depending on the ratings.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I think one of the most interesting things about the deal with Time Warner is sort of no secret that you didn't have to give up authentic -- digital authentication TV Everywhere rights even though you got a pretty hefty price reportedly.
So why is it that you -- why didn't you kind of have a TV Everywhere authenticated product? And what are your plans to do with those exclusive authenticated rights? Sure David.
Look we're open to TV authentication.
So we wanted to preserve the flexibility to pursue that.
We just want to be paid for that.
The right of our content traveling with the consumer we think we should be getting paid for that.
And it's not -- everything can't be included in the one rate that we negotiate with the MVPDs.
Those are rights -- rates for inside the home.
And that's what we kind of bargain for.
And so we're opened to having all sorts of conversations and maintain flexibility doing that.
But it's our content.
We spend a lot of money for that intellectual property.
And we want to fully monetize that.
LLC Research Division</strong> So would that imply that there's kind of upside to the new run rate retrans number if they were to include the TV Everywhere authentication rights? Sure.
Look to me again that's new distribution outlets different forms.
And again that's all incremental.
Our next question comes from Michael Morris with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First on the 13% ad growth to the network in the quarter and the creation of the new day-part that you referenced Les I'm curious where did those advertising dollars come from? I think I mean historically there probably hasn't been as much content in the summer because the ad demand hasn't been there to support it.
So what has changed there? I mean it's one show so it's not huge in the grand scheme of things but over time I mean is there a lot more opportunity in that that space you haven't really tapped into yet? And then I have a follow-up.
The share of the audience as I said the reason we did the model the way we did for Under the Dome was you don't expect there to be great ratings in the summertime which is why we had to sell it internationally and get the Amazon deal available.
When the ratings went higher we took a greater share from our competitors at that point in time.
That's why the more original programming advertisers are coming in to pay those rates if the viewership is there.
In the past the viewership hasn't been there.
And I think the network frankly sort of allowed cable to take away the product and then we've now -- we're now taking it back is what I'm trying to do along with cable.
So there are advertising dollars as long as the product's there with good rates.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great great.
And then on the Dexter licensing revenue in the quarter and Ray Donovan as well who was the partner that you licensed to? And was it all the seasons of Dexter? Was it with partial in terms of what you have in the pipeline? Mike it's Joe.
Dexter was licensed to Netflix.
And I would just caution to you and I think you're going to see the balance of that in Q1 of 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> So no Netflix revenue related to Dexter in the fourth quarter then? It's third quarter and 1Q '14? Not for Netflix.
There could be obviously some sales to the traditional syndication.
As Les said Cable Networks are syndication but not with Netflix.
Our next question comes from John Janedis with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Every September it feels like the market gets nervous around the broadcast ratings.
Can you talk about how you feel a few weeks in? And for some of the work David Poltrack has done can you give us an update on the impact from moving to C7? Yes.
I think the broadcast ratings are pretty terrific across-the-board when you count in.
What's happening now is the ratings are being counted in a much different way than even just a few short years ago.
When you add in everything that is there the numbers are actually going up significantly across-the-board.
Now we're not getting paid for every dollar of that but I think clearly we're heading that way.
Once again there is a sizable number of people that's watching days 4 through 7.
And we've just put out a report about first 30 days.
So that's not insignificant.
So you take a show like Hostages which is considered performing on a mediocre basis.
It only had about 8 million viewers in its initial broadcast.
When you look at the 30-day number it's over 16 million.
So it is more than doubled.
Those numbers are going to be more and more calculated.
We're going to get paid for that.
So the poll track view of the world is coming true.
And as I said I think broadcast is viewed as healthy as it's been in many many years because we are finally getting credit for all the online viewing for all the VOD viewing for all the DVR viewing that's out there.
And I think the broadcast industry should feel very good about itself.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Maybe quickly going back to the retrans comments can you help us think about the timing? Meaning is it fair to say that the Time Warner Cable and the Verizon deals bring your target forward by about a year or so? And with the new FCC do you see the potential for any regulations to have an impact on that revenue stream going forward? John it's Joe.
The way I would think about the retrans and timing I think it's just they're bigger numbers the way you intend the run rates that have been and obviously accelerate.
Obviously we have to wait until the deals expire.
So really we're just waiting for time really.
So we can't kind of push or pull a lot of those dollars forward.
But every time we started we're obviously pushing that value higher and higher.
And regarding the FCC we don't think they're going to intervene.
Every indication is that they're not going to.
If they did that's probably all they would be able to accomplish because people only know about the big deals.
They don't realize we do 50 deals a year.
And if they were a referee literally that would be all they do.
Once again remember these companies these MVPDs some subs may be going down or they may be paying more for it but their broadband subs by and large are going up at very high margins.
So they're doing fine.
And we're doing fine.
So we don't expect the FCC to get involved.
Our next question comes from Doug Mitchelson with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I've got a question and a completely unrelated follow-up as well.
So Les you talked about seeing a new rate card for CBS retrans with these latest 2 deals.
Has the rate card already been set for reverse comp? Because I believe you got a large majority of your station affiliate deals up in 2015? Or is it going to be set in that timeframe? There's no such thing as a rate card.
We look at different station groups differently.
We are made up of 220 stations of which we own 40% of the country.
And our affiliates are about 60%.
And each one is handled differently just like every MVPD deal is handled differently.
There is no specific rate card.
We have a target which we expect to achieve.
And yes a lot of deals are up at the end of '14 beginning of '15.
So there's a number of opportunities for us to increase our revenue there.
But I think the game has been set and -- but no there is no rate card.
Research Division</strong> I think a lot of us think about sort of the industry average or standard being a 50-50 sharing.
I mean do you think that's a fair level for TV stations? That's sort of been the big going what people have been talking about it for a while.
But we're looking at it a slightly differently.
We're saying "You know what? Let's forget about retrans that the stations are getting." We are providing content for our affiliated stations.
We are providing NFL and we're providing primetime.
We're providing news.
We think we should get paid a fair value.
So what we they get for retrans we wish them well.
But what we get is a different number.
And once again we value who we are.
And our affiliates value who we are.
Research Division</strong> Okay I like that answer.
The unrelated follow-up is there anything else you might be looking at to reduce ad exposure further whether it's something major in terms of acquisitions [indiscernible] balance sheet Joe or other ad-supported businesses that you have that you consider non-core that might come out at some point? No.
Doug it's Joe.
No I think again our focus is grow the non-advertising revenue faster than the advertising.
And this is all done organically.
There's no acquisition.
Obviously that would change the portfolio and change the mix could be significantly.
But when we talk about that 50-50 that's all organic.
And we'll take our next question from Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just circling back to the success you continue to have on content sales can you give us some color on how big the international syndication market for you guys either is or potentially can be and maybe in relation to the SVOD market? Yes.
I mean the good news is this year the international syndication market for us is going to bring in over $1.25 billion which has grown over the last 5 or 6 years from somewhere around $400 million.
The great news for us is Eastern Europe is opening up.
Asia is opening up.
Latin America is becoming a lot more significant.
In addition the streaming deals are happening all over the world.
You see the expansion of Netflix internationally in every market they open up we are participating in that.
So what is very pleasing to us is even as the economy in Europe has gone down the pricing for our programming has gone up.
So it's a very healthy market.
It's a very important export for America.
And we are benefiting from it.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on the SVOD market.
I was a little surprised to see the Dexter revenues come in the third quarter when I think delivery was October.
Can you remind us how the revenues typically recognized on that type of sales? Sure.
Alexia it's Joe.
It's when we make the shows available.
So it's our availability.
I think Netflix is making them available to their customers starting in Halloween.
But that deal was signed in the third quarter.
Our next question comes from Laura Martin with Needham Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was on a panel with David Poltrack.
And the most interesting thing that you said was that on your digital platforms your exact same CBS viewing skewed 20 years younger.
And so that would be a much more valuable demographic in the ad market.
So I'm actually curious as to what the numbers are on digital platforms for you that are 20 years younger for the same programming? 10%? By definition of course they would be younger.
And when you see the digital platforms becoming -- they could be up to 30% of an audience per se of any given show.
So it is very encouraging because it does spread out our demographic and makes it much younger as you would expect.
LLC Research Division</strong> And do you sell that in the upfront market or do you sell it standalone for its full value? It depends more and more but it's being sold side by side with our network advertising.
But there's still a great deal of it that's sold totally separately from that.
There are digital advertising.
It's very interesting.
As the advertising agencies and the clients get more integrated we will sell them accordingly.
We are available to sell however they want to buy.
Right now it's mostly fairly separate.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Time Warner this morning said that their SVOD revenue worldwide is $350 million a year.
It will be flat in '13 versus '12.
And half of that comes from Netflix.
Would those be similar numbers for you in terms of the growth being flat and as aggregate size as well? 2013 our streaming revenue is up significantly from 2012.
And our streaming revenues are coming from primarily Netflix Amazon and Hulu.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so it's a lot more than 50% for you Netflix? Yes -- no no no.
Netflix isn't a lot more than 50%.
I think again the dollars are larger.
But again it's those 3 parties making up the lion's share.
Our next question comes from David Miller with B.
Riley &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Joe just a question on the Americas Outdoor IPO.
Is the thinking here that you could really create a juicy trading opportunity by doing this IPO ahead of the PLR ruling? I mean wouldn't you want this thing to come out of the box at a media multiple rather than a REIT multiple? And therefore create a much more compelling share exchange ratio when that occurs appreciate any comments you have.
Yes.
Look David we're trying to maximize the value of the Outdoor Americas business.
So we think the REIT alternative as a separate standalone public company does just that.
So we're confident in our position with the IRS.
So we continue to wait for that.
But obviously one factor not in our control is the -- are the Capital Markets interest rates.
So we have to take all of those things into consideration marking conditions as we make the decision.
But again we're very confident that in Q1 we're able to execute that trade.
And we think we will have the ruling I know Lamar is also in the queue waiting for their ruling.
So I think again we're in a wait-and-see mode.
But again we remain on track.
And again the REIT as a public entity we think maximizes the value.
Our next question comes from Alan Gould with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on the SVOD comments.
Has the U.S.
market reached a steady state? And is mostly the growth coming from international? And Joe could you clarify that $1.25 billion of international syndication? Does that include SVOD or is that all traditional syndication? Yes.
That includes SVOD internationally.
So when we talk about our international numbers it's again it's revenue generated from selling our content the traditional way or via streaming.
So -- and again Alan you asked about if we hit the steady state.
I think there are new entrants all the time figuring out streaming and provide -- distributing content in different ways.
So we'll look to that.
But again these guys have to continue to renew their deals and new entrants.
But again international is absolutely probably the fastest-growing if I was looking at it in terms of a growth rate [indiscernible] because there are hundreds of markets that still don't have any of our content.
Research Division</strong> In the U.S.
is it that -- are the prices per hour changing? Or is it just that they'll pay more for A quality content and less for B quality in -- et cetera? It does depend on that.
Obviously a show like Dexter would sell for a lot more than a show like I Love Lucy both of which are now on Netflix.
And so depending on the show once again remember with our Netflix deal we have some pre-existing deals where shows that come off the air we can put it to them and there's a prenegotiated price which is fairly substantial for us.
And we're very excited about that.
And by the same token as new programming comes up that they want we will continue to do that.
So...
And we obviously have a lot of shows that the content that we have not sold yet into streaming into the streaming marketplace.
So what we're selling again is really stuff that's already off air.
So we still have a huge pipeline of content to sell.
Yes we'll take our next question from Vijay Jayant with ISI Group.
Inc.</strong> I just wanted to get sort of regulatory question.
Since the Time Warner Cable dispute obviously the market thinks that you guys won that.
And they sort of settled before the football season started.
But there's a couple of bills draft bills in Congress that sort of talk about keeping signal on during a dispute or bringing in a different signal and the like.
Can you just give us what do you think the chances of those kind of rulings coming to fruition? Or does it really change a negotiating leverage? Vijay these bills have been around for a long time.
Every time there's a dispute when you go off the air there's some more activity there.
And clearly one of the strategies of some of the company is to get the government involved.
We don't think it's going to happen.
We don't think it's going to happen soon or long-term.
We think it's better that the government stays out.
And every indication we have is that they will stay out.
And that's what our expectations are.
And I think that's what most people's expectations are.
Inc.</strong> Can I just follow up on -- I couldn't I have to bring up the Aereo question if I could.
It looks like a bunch of broadcast including yourself I think petitioned the Supreme Court.
Can you give us any sense of timing and why that deal path when you're trialing it on a market-by-market basis? Number one in terms of timing I really don't know.
Number two they have won a couple of cases.
We have won a couple of cases.
So we've won in Washington D.C.
We've won in California.
They obviously won in the 2nd District here in New York City.
So ultimately we feel like it's a good chance that it will go up.
Once again we're not taking Aereo.
There's been a lot of talk about it.
And we don't think about it terribly much.
And our final question comes from Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> The first there's talk about cable consolidation.
It hasn't really happened yet but it might.
So do you have any thoughts on how this might impact retransmission consent over time? And then the second question is Les is there any obstacle that would prevent you from moving to C7 in the upcoming upfront season? I'll answer the second question first and then I'll let Joe talk about the cable consolidation.
We already have some C7 deals out there.
There are advertisers that realize that if you watch a show 4 days later it's okay.
It's the same value.
Obviously there are certain products that like movies -- or sometimes that are more timely.
But we think more and more of these deals are going to come up that way and be done that way.
And if a product needs some attention before that the rates may change slightly or there'll be a different form of advertising.
But we think C7 is obvious.
The numbers between C4 and C7 are pretty substantial.
And they shouldn't be left behind.
And the good news is more and more advertisers are agreeing with us.
And they are making deals accordingly.
And Marci on cable consolidation we don't lose much -- any sleep on the consolidation.
We believe we're going to get paid fair market value for our content.
Consumers will always have a choice.
And I think that was -- you saw that in the Time Warner Cable dispute where I guess their subs were down significantly.
And I think FiOS AT&amp;T and DIRECTV were up.
So as long as consumers have a choice they'll find CBS.
And so we're going to always bet on the content.
Great.
Thank you Marci.
And thank you everyone for joining us for tonight's call.
Have a great evening.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the CBS Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Teleconference.
Today's call is being recorded.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call over to the Executive Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our first quarter 2014 earnings call.
Joining me for today's discussion are Sumner Redstone our Executive Chairman; Leslie Moonves President and CEO; and Joe Ianniello Chief Operating Officer.
Summer will have opening remarks and we'll turn the call over to Les and Joe who will then discuss the strategic and financial results.
We will then open the call up to your questions.
Please note that statements on this conference call relating to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed on CBS Corporation's news releases and securities filings.
A webcast of this call and the earnings release related to today's presentation can be found on the Investors section of our website at cbscorporation.com.
Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures related to this call can be found in our earnings release or on our website.
And with that it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Sumner.
Thank you Adam.
Good afternoon everyone.
CBS has begun the year 2014 in a position of great strength.
I couldn't be more pleased.
We are building for another terrific year.
Les and his team are doing everything right creating long-term success for our shareholders.
Here to tell you about it is CBS' President and CEO my good friend and colleague the man I rightfully call a super genius Les Moonves.
Thank you Sumner.
Good afternoon everybody and thanks for joining us.
I'm extremely pleased to tell you that CBS has turned in record first quarter profits across the board once again.
OIBDA was up 2% to $930 million.
Operating income was also up 2% to $818 million and EPS was up 7% to $0.78 matching our all-time high for any quarter in our history.
In addition we had a very strong revenue quarter given that we are competing against the Super Bowl 1 year ago.
If not for that our revenue would have been a record as well.
And remember last year's Super Bowl was also very profitable for us which makes today's record profits all the more impressive.
So we have begun 2014 in very good shape and we are poised to perform even better in the back half of the year.
In a few weeks we will launch a summer schedule featuring a great deal more original programming than ever before almost all of which we own.
Then in the fall we will build our position as the top-rated network in all of television with the addition of Thursday Night Football on CBS.
And also in the back half of '14 political spending will ramp up significantly providing even more growth to our local stations.
Along with the strong performance of our base business we continue to successfully grow our recurring high-margin revenue streams.
This year we've already licensed Blue Bloods and Hawaii Five-0 into syndication across multiple broadcast cable and streaming platforms and you will see the benefit from those deals later in '14.
The demand for our content overseas is also a terrific story with first quarter international licensing revenues up 22%.
And in retrans and reverse comp we're increasingly getting paid fair value from all of our distributors.
Each new deal we make resets the bar for the next one.
This revenue source is rapidly growing and we are on track and building momentum towards our stated $2 billion in 2020.
At the core of all of this success is our content.
We took a significant step towards becoming a pure content company when we successfully completed the IPO of CBS Outdoor last month.
Joe is going to give you more color on this later but above all else the separation of this business will do 2 things for us.
First it will allow us to focus even more on investing producing and distributing the best content.
Second it will unlock significant value for CBS Corporation shareholders especially with the recent IRS ruling that enables CBS Outdoor to convert into a Real Estate Investment Trust a REIT which means it will return more than 90% of its profits to shareholders in the form of dividends.
Thanks in part to this successful Outdoor transaction CBS Corporation is on track to return about $6 billion in value to our investors this year.
As you've heard us say many times returning value returning dollars to our shareholders is a top priority for us and 2014 will be the biggest year ever in that regard.
Now let's take a brief look at each of our businesses starting with Entertainment and then I'll turn it over to Joe before we take your questions.
The CBS Television Network will end the season as the most watched network in the country for the sixth consecutive year and for the 11th time in the last 12 years.
And if you take out sports we'll win in 25 to 54 and 18 to 49 as well.
We'll finish with the #1 drama NCIS; the #1 comedy Big Bang Theory; the #1 new comedy The Millers; and the #1 news program 60 Minutes.
Over the last 9 weeks post-Olympics CBS has won in viewers every single week even when we've had repeats up against originals on other networks.
And we've won 6 of those 9 weeks in 18 to 49.
We are approaching next year's schedule from the same position of strength that we've had for years.
20 shows from this year's #1 lineup have already been renewed meaning that the bar for new shows to get on to our schedule is much higher than any other network.
And the chance of success for our new shows is greater than anywhere else as well.
I am extremely excited about the new shows we will introduce next week at our upfront many of which we will own.
Our advantage only increases when you put Thursday Night Football into the mix.
The addition of the NFL in prime time will tighten up our schedule allow us to have more original programming throughout the year and provide us with the best possible platform to promote the rest of our lineup.
So suffice it to say our leadership position is going to continue.
This is why I believe CBS will once again lead the marketplace in upfront pricing and volume next season.
We have the ratings the broad-based strength of schedule and the stability that agencies and our clients need going forward.
In addition to our success in C3 we are monetizing commercials beyond 3 days as well.
Just as we've said would be the case more and more deals are and will be done in C7.
Plus we're beginning to benefit from dynamic ad insertion which allows us to resell inventory at a later date.
If there are advertisers who don't want to pay beyond 3 days or beyond 7 days we have a solution.
We will simply sell that inventory to other advertisers on the fourth day and beyond.
Viewing beyond 3 days or 7 days adds millions of viewers and represents a 9-digit opportunity for us.
The bottom line is that advances in measurement are catching up with how people are watching our content.
And as a result we're in the early stages of realizing a whole new source of incremental revenue.
Looking beyond the fall another exciting development for us will be the arrival of Stephen Colbert in 2015.
This will be a bittersweet moment at CBS because David Letterman has been a huge part of our success for so many years.
The good news is we expect Dave's final year to do extremely well as we say goodbye to the man I think is the greatest ever in late-night comedy.
Of course Stephen Colbert is also as talented as they come and we are extremely confident he can be the best of his generation as well.
In our more immediate future as I said earlier we're ramping up our summer programming like never before.
Last year the runaway success of Under the Dome surprised even us.
And this year we're expanding to 90 hours of original programming in the summer including 4 original dramas that we own 100%.
Leading the way will be Season 2 of Under the Dome in June and then in July we'll have the premiere of Extant starring Oscar-winner Halle Berry and produced by Steven Spielberg.
Thanks to our streaming and international deals and the strength we're seeing in ad sales both of these shows will be profitable from Day 1.
And of course we'll continue to monetize them for years to come.
All of this success along with our roster of long-term sports franchises and our growing ratings at CBS News is the reason retrans and reverse comp has become such a force for us.
Any programming distributor be it cable satellite or telco a local broadcaster or over-the-top service provider needs our lineup of premium content to offer a viable service to its customers.
This is why we're so confident in the $2 billion figure we've laid out for you and it's why we're positioned for continued growth in the years to come regardless of the way audiences choose to view our content.
I suppose this is the time to save you the question later by briefly addressing a topic that has gotten way more attention than it deserves and that is the lovely Aereo.
Aereo is theft.
Pure and simple.
Some are trying to shift the issue by erroneously suggesting it has to do with our prevention of the cloud or either future innovation.
This couldn't be further from the truth.
We have confidence that the court will find Aereo to be illegal.
Regardless of the outcome though our growth outlook will be unaffected.
We have long-term deals with our MVPD partners and down the road we'll distribute our programming in the ways that make the most sense to us financially all of them attractive.
So I am not losing any sleep over Aereo.
Moving to Cable Network.
Showtime continues to thrive both creatively and financially.
We're filling the pipeline with compelling original programming and more and more we are owning this content.
On Sunday we'll be premiering Penny Dreadful which is a very classy entertaining thriller.
And in 2 months we'll bring back our 2 highly rated freshman series from last year: Ray Donovan and Masters of Sex.
We have ownership in all 3 of these shows and you can expect they will be driving our Cable Network's results for years to come.
As will Emmy-winning Homeland which also returns for Season 4 this fall.
Showtime sports also continues to perform very well led by our greatly expanded boxing franchise which had a very exciting fight on Saturday night between Floyd Mayweather and Marcos Maidana.
In addition we continue to expand the reach of our Showtime Anytime service.
Subscribers can now watch Showtime programming where they want it when they want it.
Thanks to deals with virtually every MVPD and with streaming partners like Roku and Amazon's new Fire TV.
In Publishing content remains at the center of our success.
At Simon &amp; Schuster as well we had 70 bestsellers during the quarter including 5 #1s and we continue to benefit by selling them in the more profitable e-book format.
Looking ahead we have a number of upcoming releases that are getting a lot of buzz and will drive our results in the quarters to come.
This includes Hillary Clinton's upcoming memoir called Hard Choices and Stephen King's latest Mr.
Mercedes.
Turning to local.
Our TV stations continue to benefit from growing retrans fees.
And as I mentioned earlier we're looking forward to a surge in political spending from the many competitive midterm elections where we have major market CBS-owned stations.
This includes gubernatorial contests in Illinois Florida and Pennsylvania; and senate races in Colorado and Michigan as well as the number of issue campaigns in California.
We also had a good quarter in Radio with steady revenue growth in each month along the way and another strong performance by our CBS Sports Radio Network.
I also want to update you on the continued progress on our local digital businesses.
These sites including cbsny.com cbsla.com and 22 others saw unique users grow by 23% in the first quarter with mobile users now accounting for half of our total traffic.
This continues to be a high-growth business for us with double-digit revenue increases quarter after quarter.
So across our businesses we're delivering terrific results and building our future from a position of great strength.
And with the IPO of CBS Outdoor now complete we have become a company even more focused on producing premium content.
Right now we have over 30 shows in production and are in talks for several more.
You'll find these shows on CBS Showtime CW and on networks in development owned by other companies and soon on SVOD partners like Netflix and Amazon as well.
Creating these shows in-house is the launchpad from which we are just beginning to monetize them.
From new models of syndication including digital streaming to growing international deals to retrans and reverse comp to ad sales that take advantage of time shifted viewing you've seen firsthand how we have strategically affected change and created new growth opportunities.
As we continue to manage the company in this way we're not only posting record results we're also generating healthy levels of free cash flow.
And this is allowing us to return increasing value to our shareholders including the $6 billion I told you about earlier.
So we started this year extremely well and 2014 is on track to be another record year.
The good news is we're still in the early innings of this terrific growth story and we look forward to updating you on our progress on all the exciting developments ahead.
And with that I'll turn it over to Joe.
Thanks Les and good afternoon everyone.
In a few minutes I'll be giving you some more color about our first quarter results.
And then I'll talk about what we see ahead.
But since a lot of the quarter was about Outdoor I want to start by updating you on our transaction which is progressing just as we planned.
The steps we're taking to split off Outdoor are already unlocking tremendous value and at the same time they are propelling the transformation of CBS in a way that allows us to focus on what we do best which is create and monetize our industry-leading premium content.
In the last few months we reached several important milestones with regards to CBS Outdoor.
We kicked off the year with the issuance of $1.6 billion of debt which was primarily used to repurchase shares of our stock.
We followed that up by completing an IPO of CBS Outdoor netting $615 million and the bulk of those proceeds will also be used to buy back our stock.
In addition we told you last year we were confident we would get a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS to convert this business into a REIT and last month we did just that.
As a result we are returning value to shareholders like never before.
All told we used $2 billion in the first quarter to retire more than 31 million shares including $1.5 billion through an accelerated share repurchase program.
And as Les said at current market prices we are on track to reduce our equity base by approximately $6 billion in 2014 which is about 17% of our market cap.
Let me say that again.
This year alone we are on track to reduce our shares outstanding by about 17%.
And as we said before capital returns will continue to be our focus and our top priority going forward.
Earlier today CBS Outdoor reported its financial results for the first time as a new public entity and posted solid numbers with constant dollar revenue up over 4%.
I'm not going to get into any more specifics here but we still do own 81% of the company and we are focused on executing the last part of the transaction which is a split off.
The split off will likely occur in the not-too-distant future as we work with our banks and the FCC on this last part of the deal.
We are proud to say that we have hit every objective that we outlined for you when we launched this bold initiative in early 2013.
Now I'm going to provide some more details about our first quarter results and then I'll discuss what we see ahead for the rest of 2014.
Total revenue for the first quarter was $3.9 billion compared with $4 billion last year.
As you know we were comping against the Super Bowl which contributed more than $280 million from last year's first quarter.
Not to mention we also had fewer NCAA March Madness games on CBS in this year's first quarter.
Given these non-comparables we turned in a solid revenue performance this quarter.
Breaking down revenue by its components content licensing and distribution was up 6% driven by 22% growth in international licensing and syndication.
The overseas demand for our content continues to be strong with NCIS and The Good Wife leading the way.
Affiliate and subscription fees were up 9% demonstrating the continued benefit of our newly renegotiated deals in retrans and reverse comp.
We have a lot of momentum here and we are on our way to achieving our stated $2 billion target.
And in advertising underlying revenue was up low single digits.
And as I'll discuss in a little bit we see advertising accelerating in the back half of 2014.
And just to highlight our ongoing revenue diversification efforts advertising represented just 56% of total revenue during the first quarter even with CBS Outdoor still in our consolidated results.
The strong growth in our fast-growing high-margin revenue sources not only led to record first quarter profits but it also drove the expansion of our OIBDA margin to 24% another first quarter high for us.
In addition EPS of $0.78 tied an all-time quarterly record.
Even though it included $12 million of interest expense which is more than $0.01 a share from the nonrecourse debt issued by CBS Outdoor.
So despite this interest expense and the comparison to last year's Super Bowl we were able to achieve our best-ever first quarter profits.
Now let's turn to our operating segments.
Entertainment revenue was $2.3 billion compared with $2.5 billion in Q1 of 2013.
Last year's Super Bowl and fewer March Madness games in this year's first quarter affected our revenue comparison by 11 percentage points.
So underlying Entertainment revenue was actually up low single digits.
Entertainment OIBDA was a very robust $457 million.
And as a result of higher international licensing revenue we expanded our OIBDA margin for this segment to 20%.
In Cable Networks first quarter revenue of $537 million grew 12% led by 3 main items: the licensing of our Showtime programming particularly the sale of the last 4 seasons of Dexter; higher affiliate fees; and our move into boxing including a Canelo Alvarez pay-per-view fight during the quarter.
We see continued growth in all 3 of these areas as we increase our focus on owning more Showtime content negotiating new affiliate deals and expanding our presence in sports.
Cable OIBDA of $259 million also increased 12% and the cable OIBDA margin held steady at 48%.
Turning to Publishing.
We continue to achieve higher profits from the shift to digital.
OIBDA was up 8% to $13 million in the first quarter while revenue was down from $171 million to $153 million principally driven by the availability of titles.
The more profitable e-books represented nearly 30% of total Publishing sales for the first quarter.
In Local Broadcasting first quarter revenue was $626 million.
Like Entertainment the comparison for TV stations was affected by last year's Super Bowl and fewer March Madness games we had this year.
Underlying growth for our TV stations were up mid-single digits.
Meanwhile Radio was up 2% with double-digit increases in several categories including travel health care telecom and Entertainment.
Local Broadcasting OIBDA in the first quarter was up 1% to $200 million and the OIBDA margin expanded to 32%.
Turning to cash flow and our balance sheet.
We're off to another strong start in terms of free cash flow which came in at $485 million for the first quarter.
We also exited the quarter with $311 million of cash on hand which by the way excludes the proceeds from the Outdoor IPO which closed on April 2.
As I highlighted for you 1 minute ago we will continue to use our excess cash to return value to shareholders.
Beyond the Outdoor transaction the visibility we have in our base business and in our fast-growing high-margin revenue streams gives us great confidence in our ability to generate strong free cash flow going forward.
Now let me give you a few observations of what we see ahead for the rest of 2014 in each of our revenue categories.
At local our TV and Radio stations as well as CBS Outdoor which is obviously still important to us are pacing to be up low single digits for the second quarter.
With political campaigns kicking into high gear later this year local advertising revenue should accelerate in the third and fourth quarters.
And at the network we see momentum building throughout the back half of 2014 with more summer original programming Thursday Night Football starting this fall and higher ad rates from this year's upfront which we expect will be strong for us.
In addition the backdrop of a solid macro environment should bode well for the advertising industry in general.
Content licensing and distribution revenue was also set for a strong 2014 with our syndication and streaming deals for Hawaii Five-0 and Blue Bloods kicking in later this year.
We continue to successfully launch new own franchises for CBS CW and Showtime and you'll see more of this next week at our upfront.
This strategy provides a pipeline for content-driven growth both domestically and internationally for many years to come.
And in affiliate sales we are positioned to see continued growth from the new deals we signed last year as well as increases in all existing deals.
In addition we have a retrans renewal with a major satellite company and a number of TV affiliates deals coming up later this year.
We have great confidence in our ability to execute these contracts at rates that reflect the fair value of CBS.
So in summary as you can see with the many growth prospects before us 2014 is shaping up to be another record year for profits.
And with the completion of our Outdoor initiative in sight 2014 will also be a transformative year in the evolution of CBS.
Once the separation of our Outdoor business is complete CBS will derive nearly half of its revenue from fast-growing non-advertising sources including content licensing and affiliate compensation.
As a result CBS will become an even stronger company with a more diversified revenue mix and many opportunities to grow our business.
We see a clear path for success and we're feeling very confident about our future.
And with that Tom let's open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Les can you talk a little bit more about the upfront particularly the move to C7 as well as the NFL? How does that change if at all how you guys are going into the negotiations and how you think you're going to be pricing your inventory? And maybe you can expand the answer to thinking about how the increase in measurement on time shifting actually turns into real revenue growth.
I mean I think we all have a realistic view that it takes a long time for the ad market to shift how people behave but can you give us a sense for your optimism level on sort of really driving revenue growth from those changes? Yes.
I'm not going to come out with a prediction on the upfront.
Suffice it to say we're very encouraged by what we see out there.
There's going to be winners and losers as there are every year.
We're looking forward to the upfront.
Obviously having the NFL on Thursday Night tightens the inventory a great deal for us and obviously sports is sold somewhat differently.
But prime time football will be a very high number.
In addition we'll spread out more originals throughout the season and that should go on.
More and more of the viewing obviously is increasing to a C3 number.
So post live viewing we're seeing -- like on a show like Elementary it's more than 4.5 million people are watching it after the live broadcast.
And we have more than 6 or 7 shows that get more than 3 million viewers that's just on C3.
When you start adding in C7 that number will go up significantly more as well.
What's happened -- and frankly advertisers adapted fairly quickly to the shift to C3.
Advertisers -- what people don't understand is they want -- they want the large audiences.
They want every viewer counted because it means their advertising are being watched by more people.
As the world expands and once again as I said you're going to see more and more C7 deals.
They're going to want those extra 4 days.
And when that doesn't occur once again we can sell it in different ways.
So we can't wait to get the selling season starting.
We're only going to have 6 nights to sell plus football.
So our numbers are going to go up significantly because of that.
And when you look at what we're going to do with advertising in the summer and more originals throughout the year I expect our numbers to be up quite a bit.
Our next question comes from Jessica Reif Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> This is for Les.
So much of your success has been and should continue to be coming from your success in programming.
And in part it's because the programming's worked in part because you've done like such innovative deals -- just thinking like Netflix.
Before you did this deal everybody was so worried that it would kill the business and then -- I mean you made such a great deal.
The same thing with syndication The Good Wife you sold to multiple buyers.
So I guess the question is as you think about the next 3 to 5 years how do you think about I guess a couple of things the additional buyers like OTT whether it's DISH or DIRECTV how you're thinking about that more originals -- are CBS and Showtime at peak? Or can you scale it further? And even digital rights you did that hard fought battle with Time Warner Cable 1 year ago.
How do you kind of I guess -- how do you resolve the differences between the Time Warner Cable and the Comcast contract? Yes.
Look what's been great about our company I'm really proud is we've been very nimble.
There are more buyers getting into the ballgame every single day.
So now when you look at the SVOD players that are becoming a big part of it you're right.
At the time when there literally were people out there that said "If you do business with Netflix we're going to sell your stock." To people realization -- the people's realization that what a great new revenue stream.
And as we take out any product to market there's a whole new world out there of buyers and now we're looking down the road at other people getting into the marketplace.
SVOD's becoming bigger.
Cable is still buying.
TV stations are still buying.
So I think innovation is the right word.
We take a property and we acknowledge how quickly do we want to sell it to SVOD what our cable prosperity for the shows and each show is a different animal.
Once again our capacity is continuing to grow because as we've shown in the summer the back end is now becoming as important as the front end.
That's something that was unheard of 5 years ago.
So with Under the Dome and Extant these are deals we couldn't have made 5 years ago.
We couldn't have afforded to do it.
And as I said it with both of these shows they are profitable from Day 1 as you enter the marketplace.
Let me go back to saying we are nimble.
We do an analysis.
There are new buyers there are new people that want the content both online and over the air.
We are looking at OTT in every way shape or form.
But as you know and we've stated this unless we get paid appropriately for it we won't do those deals.
But it is definitely our intent to increase the amount of content that we own.
You will see that next week in our schedule.
You'll see it with Showtime.
We just announced some new shows with The CW.
And as I said we're developing 4 other places.
So content is our product.
We are programmers at our core.
We are product people.
And as the world evolves we're going to be well positioned for the future.
Research Division</strong> And can you discuss the Time Warner Cable like how you resolved the differences in the contracts? Yes.
Once again we're in discussion with Comcast about that and obviously there are certain things in one contract and certain things in the other both -- there are advantages and disadvantages.
But we expect as we've done in the past with Comcast to come to resolutions that are satisfactory for both parties.
And that's our expectation as we go further.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick one to Joe how are you thinking about leverage? Like in a post CBS Outdoor world? Yes I think Jessica look.
We're obviously creating a lot of financial capacity.
We're focused on getting the Outdoor deal done and we're going to do that.
I think again even if you looked at the weighty agency calculations you see sufficient capacity there.
So within our ratings.
So we're going to continue to look at that in the coming months.
But that's going to be my focus over the next couple of months.
Our next question comes from David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess I have 2 questions.
The first is can -- Les Joe can you remind us what the gating factors are on timing for the exchange offer? I mean like is there a legal regulatory or sort of tax requirement that you wait a certain period of time? Or is it just kind of as soon as practical? And the second question is I know you always have a -- you have a pretty good track record of sort of underpromising and overdelivering on this kind of stuff.
It seems to me that there might be a bit of conservatism built on the capital returns trajectory to me.
You have $2 billion of cash that you raised from the IPO and levering the company for the IPO $3 billion from the exchange and so your trajectory would imply like $1 billion of cash buybacks from cash generated from ops.
So you'd actually end up with lower leverage than where you ended last year I would think which was a pretty conservative starting point.
So is there -- do you think there's additional capacity in there maybe to -- does it seem conservative? Or can you give us some perspective around the trajectory? Sure David.
It's Joe.
I'll take that.
First off we're very pleased with the performance of CBS Outdoor.
And as it relates to the timing we've always said we were going to separate them in 2014.
But we always have an option to accelerate it but that decision is really going to be based on market conditions the FCC registration process and a discussion with our bank.
So hopefully that gives you some context around the timing.
But as far as capital returns the $6 billion again it's really -- a lot of that -- a big piece of that is driven on the exchange offer.
So obviously it's relative.
So we have to decide what the stock prices are going to be for the absolute value of $6 billion.
So I think again yes math implies again I think we're not saying we're done.
We're not saying we have no more capacity.
I think what we're just saying just kind of approximately $6 billion.
So could it be north of $6 million? Sure.
So we're going to continue to focus on that and look at that but I don't think you're hearing us today tell you what our leverage target is going to be.
I think what we're focused on is doing this deal and relooking at the business.
But one thing is for sure.
We're creating financial capacity.
That we absolutely know.
And we'll take our next question from Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Sort of a follow-up to that last question.
I guess when you look at your -- a couple of things one you're focused on being more of a pure play content company and then the fact that your balance sheet is going to be so strong even after this very generous sort of capital returns.
I guess has your thinking has changed a bit in terms of your priorities for use of cash? Are you -- can we assume going forward maybe in '15 it might be bit more of a balanced approach between acquisitions versus share buybacks? Any color on that would be great.
Yes Alexia it's Joe again.
Look I think we look at all acquisitions.
Again we sit here we feel strategically complete.
If there's something out here we always look at it.
We obviously can figure out the financing of an acquisition at the appropriate time.
But as we sit here today our best and highest use of excess cash is to buy back our stock because given the growth opportunities we laid out for you and the $2 billion in retrans and Les laid out all these emerging platforms we see no better use than buying back our stock at these levels.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up if I may.
You and a couple of your peers made a big effort to sort of move programming to more of a year-round kind of model versus more the traditional fall to spring.
I was wondering if you can give us some color for the advertisers who historically have not sort of been as focused in the year-round model or beginning to follow the strong program that you're putting on in the summer and you're seeing ad dollars actually follow that programming.
Yes.
I mean look the ad dollars were not used to broadcast networks putting on summer programming.
So the assumption was it was going to be repeat theater or some crummy reality shows.
I think we have changed that entire profile.
Going in last year Under the Dome was pretty much of a shocker for everybody when they were anticipating a low number.
And once again as we said because of our deal with Amazon and our huge international sale we were in profit if that did a 0.1 rating.
When it sort of went through the roof and did extraordinarily well the advertisers were very happy to be on board.
And obviously we sort of set the pattern for this year.
So when we came in with Under the Dome 2 and Extant obviously our advertising rates are significantly higher than they were a year ago.
And advertisers now view us as a 12-month a year programming machine.
And as I said we have 90 hours of original programming.
Four years ago there would have been maybe 2.5 hours and that would have been a country music special.
And that would have been -- or the extent of our summer programming.
Now there are series throughout the summer.
And it's pretty exciting not only for what it's bringing in revenue but as it leads up into the fall.
Our next question comes from Michael Morris with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Les you mentioned the ability to sell advertising from Day 4 through Day 7 or beyond sort of separately if it came to that.
I'm just curious the mechanics of how something like that would take place.
It seems that a lot of the viewing may be on DVRs and you wouldn't have access to that but maybe I don't understand how it would work or how much actually is being viewed on VOD.
And then secondly just on affiliate fees.
In the trajectory for the year last year was a bit lumpy with some boxing on Showtime maybe some other factors.
As we look at the trajectory for this year is there anything we should be thinking about in terms of lumpiness? And the distribution agreement you discussed as you get to year end would that impact this year's results? Yes.
Mike I'll do the first question.
I'll have Joe do the second one.
In terms of C3 there are a lot more advertisers that were looking at C7 and now that the counting that comes from DVRs will be counted in terms of that.
And then more and more of it is online.
And when you look at that at cbs.com and I'm sure for some of our competitors on Hulu you will see that the dynamic ad insertion that's where that comes into play and once again we have an entire sales force that's in charge of doing that.
So that's an additional revenue stream that comes out of our interactive group.
Once again as measurement gets better and better for DVR viewing we will be able to get paid from our advertisers for that as well.
And Mike on your second part of the question the major satellite deal that comes up it really will impact 2015 forward because it comes up at the end of the year.
And as far as the affiliate fees well I guess I'd say whenever Floyd Mayweather fights not only will somebody's head be lumpy but some of the revenue at Showtime might be a little lumpy too because of the way we record the revenues.
It's a gross method as opposed to a net method.
But we love when Floyd fights.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure sure.
So the boxing is the one thing to keep our eye on.
And otherwise the first quarter results should be pretty indicative of what the pace looks like for the year? Yes.
I think that's fair.
And I think again obviously the Dexter sale also fueled revenue growth and continued that pretty steady margin of 48%.
Next question comes from Anthony DiClemente with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> A question for Les on the lovely Aereo.
Let's just put on the table the undesirable scenario that the Supreme Court deems Aereo legal right? So it seems to me that there are 2 logical arguments as to why CBS shareholders should not worry or panic right? So reason number one would be Aereo is not a compelling product to begin with right? So if customers want the signal outside of the cable bundle they would have gone to RadioShack.
They would have bought a digital antenna.
They would have done it already right? So that will be one.
Reason number two would be like we shouldn't worry because CBS owns its own content.
You guys have the ability the weapons to counterattack commercially right? You can launch your own app.
You can move your programming to cable.
But it strikes me that in some ways those 2 arguments are mutually exclusive.
So if Aereo is not a compelling product there's really no reason for you to take any radical commercial action.
So I just wonder Les how do you think about those 2 logically in terms of how much traction would Aereo have to gain for you to move forward in terms of making more aggressive commercial countering? So you make a valid point.
They've been legal.
They've been used in New York City for many many years.
I haven't heard any results.
All I heard was they ran out of antenna.
So that didn't seem that it was a viable product.
And obviously it was something we would keep an eye on.
But as I said we have deals with most of our MVPDs for a long long time to deliver our content.
If we would see the commercial viability there are things we can do.
We're talking to people about OTT.
We're talking to people about delivering it directly to our consumers.
We are thinking -- we're talking about doing Aereo amongst ourselves if that became viable.
So as I said I don't lose sleep out of it.
We don't think it's a viable product.
We don't think we're going to lose in the court.
We don't think it's a viable product.
And if it was it won't be viable because it won't have our content.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then a follow-up question for Joe.
I guess another Supreme Court-related ruling this year.
You talked about political in the back half.
I think there aren't any limits this year to campaign contributions whether it be individuals or corporations.
And so do you expect political revenue into CBS to grow off of the 2012 cycle? Or do you have a view on the limits being struck down in terms of contribution? Yes.
Anthony thanks for your question.
I do think it's going to grow from 2012 in the midterm elections because where our stations are and where these campaigns are we're better positioned.
So traditionally we have done better in the mid-term cycle.
I think removing that cap can only be a good thing.
We'll see how big big can be.
But as you know we generate about 75% of political revenue in the back half of the year.
Our next question comes from David Miller with Topeka Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> A question for Les and a question for Joe.
Joe I'll start with you.
Let's just say for sake of argument that when you guys do your share exchange between CBS parent and Outdoor Americas that the demand is weaker than you expected or just not there just given market dynamics or whatever the reason.
What would be your inclination then to dispose of the remaining 83%? Would it be kind of a series of bought deals or just a secondary offering? Any color around that would be great.
And then Les I'm sure you are aware that on August 14 ESPN is launching the SEC network.
It's not really direct competition to your package just because they get to pick the game and eyeballs are just going to flow to your game.
But are you thinking about that package any differently competitively strategically just given the launch of that network? Any color you can provide would be great.
I'll go first because it will be a quick answer.
ESPN has had the other SEC games for many many years.
We get the premier game just about every week except for maybe 1 or 2.
So our package is by far the best over the air schedule you see the numbers.
It's a pretty extraordinary deal.
It goes on for more than 1 decade.
So we actually view SEC viewing on ESPN as a positive and just additional promotion for our premier Alabama LSU Auburn Texas A&amp;M you name them Tennessee Kentucky.
I don't want to offend anybody who may be listening.
We have the premier game.
And that's only going to be a good thing for us.
And David it's Joe.
On the split the first thing I'd say we're going to price it for success.
So I don't think we plan on having a failed exchange.
But in the unlikely event that we don't get all the shares in we certainly can do a follow-on.
We can also do a follow-up pro rata spin-off.
So again I think we have a couple of backup alternatives to make sure we get our ownership down to 0 which was part of the ruling that we received from the IRS.
We'll take our next question from Laura Martin with Needham.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
So on the local digital I was really interested to hear your say that mobile is 50% of users.
I was wondering is that also tracks by monetization or what's the monetization on that mobile 50% of users? And then Les I'm really interested on the content side given that I know you're doing 30 original series now.
Given that some of those are for these SVOD players I'm interested in your preselling international rights.
Is the nature of the content changing in some way either becoming longer or more serialized or more binge-y? How is content changing with these new platforms demanding from your original content guide? Yes Laura we -- actually regarding the SVOD players we're in discussion with them.
We have a few projects in development.
There is nothing directly there yet.
But you are absolutely right the SVOD players like the more serialized content less [ph] more so.
They've done extremely well with that.
And obviously House of Cards has been a significant hit for them.
I think the international marketplace has changed every way we look at things.
Because now the SVOD players are part of the conversation.
So when our international guys go out with whatever series there is SVOD becomes part of the original conversation.
How does that fit with cable or over the air? And where does that deliver the most money for us? As I said we have a few projects in development.
We're looking forward to doing originals for Netflix and Amazon and the idea that Microsoft and Yahoo! are now getting into that we'd be happy to sell to them as well.
And on local digital Laura people are absolutely consuming it on mobile devices tablets iPhones.
So we really think we have a competitive advantage here on kind of traveling with your local brands.
And so we're clearly seeing usage up consumption and we are monetizing it.
And again we do think that's still a big -- another growth driver that is still untapped.
Next question comes from Alan Gould with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
Joe is the timing of the exchange offer is it just getting away from the lock up of the 180-day -- waiver of 180-day lockup period? No Alan.
It's obviously we have to file a Form 4 and a tender offer document.
So there's an FCC registration process also involved.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Les with respect to the cost of the premium content sort of a good news bad news issue as you're both a buyer and seller of programming.
Are the costs going up dramatically for high-quality 1-hour programming? Not really.
Not really.
It's very funny we just did an analysis of next week's potential schedule that we're going to announce on Wednesday and the actual cost of that schedule is less than this year's schedule because a lot of it has to do with the aging of shows that cost more later on put it on with new shows.
So the -- if you know the Production business as well as we do I think you can contain your costs and still put out the top premium content.
And that's what we're doing.
Next question comes from Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
I wanted to pick up on the issue of international growth.
I wanted to ask about where the real opportunities are.
Is there a way you can sort of size for us the penetration opportunity in countries i.e.
how much content you have out there versus what you have here.
I know it's a very general question.
Also about pricing and also about your strategy which appears to be mainly by content licensing rather than about obviously setting up your own networks.
But how do you approach that? And in that vein as well what could you do with Showtime internationally? Well content licensing is growing significantly and it's growing in a variety of markets.
Obviously in our strongholds which are Europe they are growing because of the increase of cable networks.
And there is a great deal of competition.
We're also greatly aided by the increase in Netflix and Amazon as well internationally.
As soon as Netflix opens up in new territory like Germany they did recently there is a great acquisition that they will do from us by definition.
The licensing is the majority of our revenue internationally.
However we have expanded our channels as well.
Other territories are opening up more significantly Eastern Europe the Far East as well as Latin America.
South America is growing substantially.
So the good news is we are virtually selling everything we own everywhere.
And that means soap operas talk shows game shows in addition to the premium stuff you see in prime time.
And you can see David Letterman all over the world in about 200 markets.
And hopefully Stephen Colbert will be in 220.
So there is a great future internationally.
With Showtime can you let us know what is available if anything? And opportunities to expand the network there or sell Showtime content? Yes.
Well Showtime content as you hear us referenced many times in these calls we mention what we own.
And over the last 4 or 5 years it's been a priority for us to own a majority of the content.
So we own Ray Donovan.
We own partially Masters of Sex.
We own all of Penny Dreadful.
We own Dexter and Californication House of Lies.
So the majority of these shows owned by Showtime are now owned by us.
That wasn't the case 4 or 5 years ago and the ability to sell these shows is now growing as premium cable is growing throughout the world and has great demand for these programs.
And it's led by HBO and Showtime.
And that question comes from Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
The first is just a clarification for the Q2 pace of the buyback.
I think you received $550 million of cash on April 2 for Outdoor.
Is this all in the Q2 buyback? That's the first question.
And then second just bigger picture how important is the health of the affiliate bodies to you? Because there's a fear that if the FCC continues down a certain path and hurts some of these broadcast TV groups and they break up the whole broadcast business can be under pressure.
How would that impact you in terms of your 2017 and 2020 goals of $1 billion and $2 billion in retrans and reverse comp if at all? Well Marci I'll answer your second question first and then I'll turn it over to Joe to do the other one.
Look the health of our affiliates is very important to us.
Remember going in however we own almost 40% of the country of our owned and operated stations.
I was with the FCC this past Friday.
There is no attempt to hurt the affiliates obviously.
There's some controversy over the JSAs and certain affiliates are objecting to that.
But by and large the FCC wants a healthy affiliate body.
When you look down the road and say what would happen if affiliates weren't able to perform? Remember almost 90% of our people that watch CBS watch it through satellite through telcos or through cable.
If an affiliate wasn't there there's obviously a way to get our programming to those people.
Having said that we believe in localism.
We believe in our affiliates.
The CBS affiliate body is very strong and we don't view this system as in jeopardy in any way shape or form.
And as far as the buyback Marci look we tried -- we did $2 billion in the first quarter and we said again approximately $6 billion for the full year.
So at the turn if we're at $2.5 billion plus or minus we don't want to get too caught up into quarterly buybacks.
But again the target's there.
So we're going to be opportunistic and buy our stock attractively throughout the year.
Great.
Thanks Marci.
And this concludes today's call.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Have a great evening.
Good day everyone and welcome to the CBS Corporation's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Teleconference.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to the Executive Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our second quarter of 2014 earnings call.
Joining us for today's discussion are Sumner Redstone our Executive Chairman; Leslie Moonves President and CEO; and Joe Ianniello Chief Operating Officer.
Sumner will have opening remarks and we'll turn the call over to Les and Joe who will then discuss the strategic and financial results.
We will then open the call to questions.
Please note that statements on this conference call relating to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed in CBS Corporation's news releases and securities filings.
A webcast of this call and the earnings release related to today's presentation can be found on the Investors section of our website at cbscorporation.com.
Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information related to this call can be found in our earnings release or on our website.
With that it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Sumner.
Thank you Adam.
Good afternoon everyone.
I'm extremely proud of CBS's continued success.
Our content is going extremely well.
I'm confident we'll stay at the top of our game for many many years to come.
So it gives me great pleasure to turn the call over to my good friend and colleague the man I rightfully call a super genius Les Moonves.
Thank you Sumner and good afternoon everybody and thank you for joining us.
Needless to say these are very exciting times in the media business.
When you think about all that has gone on in these last 3 months and even in fact these last 3 days it is truly astonishing.
The good news is through all the change and all the noise we continue to be extremely confident about CBS's growth prospects.
We remain fully focused on executing our compelling growth strategy.
This includes second quarter EPS that tied our record of $0.76 and adjusted EPS that came in at $0.78 up 4% from a year ago.
In the middle of all this success and excitement there were a number of key positive developments here at CBS since the second quarter began.
First we successfully completed the separation of our Outdoor business.
This accentuates that CBS is a content company and we are fully focused on what we do best.
In addition we are now much closer to a 50-50 split of advertising and non-advertising revenue.
More importantly thanks to this transaction we were able to retire more than $5 billion of our stock.
And in a moment I'm going to talk about the significant amounts of additional capital that we will be returning to our shareholders per our announcement today.
The next key development was the landmark Supreme Court ruling against Aereo.
This removes any distraction from our stated $2 billion of retrans and affiliate compensation revenue by 2020 a goal that we are well on our way to achieving.
We're very pleased that the highest court in the land reaffirmed the legal rights of content owners.
And as we learned subsequently what we suspected all along Aereo only had about 75 000 subs nationwide.
So a lot of attention for a service that virtually nobody was using.
We also had a very successful upfront during the quarter.
Yes there were winners and there were losers in the upfront.
And here at CBS we did very well and better than most people anticipated.
We brought in more dollars and commanded higher pricing than anyone else with substantial CPM increases.
Yes volume was down slightly.
But given the strength of our fall schedule we'll be happy selling that extra inventory in scatter.
And for the first time C7 was a major part of our upfront negotiations including a number of breakthrough deals with key agencies.
This will significantly drive our advertising revenue going forward since more of our viewers will be counted and monetized.
All of these developments will help our business and all of them give us even more confidence in our future.
It is because of this confidence and the continued strength of our operations that we have announced today a huge increase in the amount of capital we're returning to investors.
This includes a significant expansion of our share buyback program.
Our board has authorized an increase to $6 billion and we will significantly accelerate its pace.
This authorization is in addition to $5 billion of stock we already retired this year that I just mentioned.
Taken together in a short period of time this represents more than $11 billion of value and more than 30% of the shares of our company.
And today we also announced a 25% increase in our quarterly dividend once again reaffirming our commitment to return value and supporting our confidence in our business going forward.
As we have shown shareholder value is the core CBS commitment and that is something that will not change.
Meanwhile you've heard recently about the challenges during Q2 in the advertising marketplace which we saw as well.
But we are now seeing pacing improve significantly here in Q3 both nationally and locally and Q4 will be even better than Q3.
Looking ahead there are a number of additional developments that make us very excited about the back half of '14.
For instance after finishing first once again and in fact for the 11th time in 12 years the CBS Television Network will have the biggest event on television this fall with Thursday Night Football.
Never before in the history of network television has the NFL been on Thursday nights.
National and local NFL sales are already pacing up strong double digits on Sundays and Thursdays are doing phenomenally well as well.
This together with the upfront increases I told you about means network advertising is accelerating nicely in the back half of the year.
In addition since we now have Thursday Night Football we have the advantage of moving The Big Bang Theory to Monday so we can strengthen that night as well.
And of course we are obviously pleased to have the cast back and the Big Bang Theory back into production as of this week.
We are also very pleased that we lead all broadcast networks with 47 Emmy nominations this year.
And this fall we're adding our extremely profitable wholly owned NCIS franchise with a new spinoff that through prenegotiated licensing deals is guaranteed to make a profit right from the start.
Showtime is also poised for a terrific back half with the second season of Ray Donovan having a great summer and the return of Homeland set for October.
This -- there will also be a frenzy of political spending this fall ramping up here in Q3 and increasing in Q4.
And we will have more international and domestic licensing and streaming deals on the syndication front such as the new recently completed extension with Netflix for our library of programming here in the U.S.
So we feel very good about the quarters ahead and about our long-term growth prospects as a content company going forward.
It all begins with the continued success as a CBS Television Network.
In addition to winning this past season CBS is the #1 network this summer.
And with Thursday Night Football on its way we are very confident we will remain #1 for the entire 2014 '15 season as well.
And looking beyond that to next summer we feel very good about our prospects having already announced our 2015 summer event series Zoo.
Just as we did with Amazon for Under the Dome and Extant we presold the SVOD rights for this series this time to Netflix meaning that Zoo will also be immediately profitable for us.
In terms of advertising next season we will be doing an increasing number of C7 deals simply because it is a more accurate measurement of all the people watching our shows.
The C7 deal will shortly become the only measurement of any relevance.
Marketers want to get a more precise count of all the impressions and overnight ratings and other daily ratings are totally antiquated.
We now have VOD SVOD AVOD it's a lot of letters but it adds up to bigger numbers and viewers and revenue.
New technologies are supporting our programs and the winners are the content creators.
In fact these new platforms and new measurements are helping our whole ecosystem.
Many people look at a show like our drama Elementary and only see a live plus same-day audience of 9 million viewers on CBS.
We look at Elementary and see a big audience that grows to nearly 14 million when you add in 7-day viewing on DVR VOD and online viewing plus a healthy demo boost as well.
The audience across all these platforms has built an important program asset for our company that led to huge syndication deals with Hulu and WGN.
There are many more examples.
This summer Under the Dome averages about 8 million viewers on the day of air.
But after 7 days that number increases to 13 million.
And Extant goes from 9 million viewers to 12 million.
And that's just domestic TV viewing.
It does not include the significant viewers we get from streaming on Amazon and cbs.com.
So clearly we need to look at the world in a whole new way.
What appears to be a moderate hit may actually be a big one.
As these trends continue we will get paid for every viewer bringing in hundreds of millions of new dollars.
In addition one of the things that clearly has changed about our business is that the back end of a show's revenue is now as important if not more important than the front end from advertising.
Ownership of content is the key to our success.
So we're very pleased to have increased the number of shows that we own on our prime time schedule.
We will have ownership in 4 out of 5 of our new series on CBS this fall and in more than 70% of our total lineup.
Also in order to grow our portfolio of owned content franchises CBS Studios is going well beyond the CBS Television Network.
We're programming for Showtime for the CW for other cable networks and for other broadcast networks including a straight to series order for ABC.
Going forward we will be producing more and more shows for more and more outlets including major streaming companies and other emerging distributors.
Turning to cable.
Showtime continues to succeed on the strength of its original programming.
In 2010 Showtime had 1 series with 5 million weekly viewers.
In the past 12 months we've had 6 of them.
With Showtime's original content getting better and better we have now launched 9 successful shows in a row.
Our 2 sophomore series Ray Donovan and Masters of Sex are performing very strongly for us this summer.
And with every episode they're adding to our library of owned content.
And as our collection of owned Showtime hits grow so too will our syndication revenues which is now becoming a very meaningful part of our cable segment.
Looking ahead Showtime will also have the highly anticipated return of Homeland in October and we are very pleased with the continued growth of our Showtime Anytime and SHOWTIME ON DEMAND platforms as well.
Turning to Publishing.
We had a very solid quarter on the strength of some very big titles.
And in the coming months we're looking forward to some key releases including books by Stephen King and by Walter Isaacson whose last work on Steve Jobs was one of the biggest sellers anybody has had in years.
Plus we continue to find new ways to monetize our content digitally.
During the quarter we entered into 2 new deals that expand our e-book subscription business and we continue to convert more and more titles to digital so that we can increase the ways we monetize them.
At our local businesses we're looking forward to the third quarter where pacing is increasing significantly and is even better in the fourth quarter.
Our improvement is largely due to live events the NFL and once again political advertising.
We're set for big midterm election season with gubernatorial elections in 14 of our markets including what's figured to be hard-fought races in Florida Illinois Michigan and Pennsylvania as well as a number of cantankerous House and Senate races and another wave of ballot measures and propositions in California and Colorado.
In each case both sides are willing to go to great lengths to get their messages out with increases in super PACs funds fueling their resolve.
We are glad to be the beneficiary of this.
In addition our local digital business continued to show solid double-digit growth in revenue and profit.
And nationally CBS Interactive had a terrific quarter led by 93% growth in revenue at our CBS-branded properties in entertainment news and sports.
So across CBS we are focused on moving forward as a great content company with a growing number of ways to monetize that content starting right here in the third and fourth quarter.
Our Outdoor transaction Aereo victory strong upfront #1 network launch of Thursday Night Football better measurement C7 deals impending political dollars growing success at Showtime Netflix extension increasing ownership of content and on and on and on all give us great confidence in the back half of '14 and into our future beyond that as well.
In addition all of these factors contribute to why we are able to announce today that we've increased our share buyback program to $6 billion accelerating its pace and also increase our dividend by 25%.
Going forward we will continue to make returning value to shareholders a top priority and we will continue to run CBS in a way that achieves maximum shareholder returns on the strength of our content.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Joe.
Thanks Les and good afternoon everyone.
In just a bit I'll be giving you some more details about our second quarter results and I'm also going to talk about what's coming up in the back half of 2014.
But first I want to take a moment to update you on the completion of our Outdoor transaction and provide more details on our capital return plan.
Last month we split off the remaining 81% that we own in CBS Outdoor.
This entire initiative was a success from start to finish.
Beginning with the sale of our European operations last fall to the debt we raised at very attractive rates in the first quarter to the launch of our IPO this spring to obtaining a favorable REIT ruling from the IRS and finally to completing the exchange offer in July on an accelerated schedule.
Please note that since we continue to own CBS Outdoor through the second quarter its results are presented as discontinued operations in our financial statements today.
And because the exchange offer closed after June 30 we will record a gain on the disposition in Q3.
Now that the Outdoor separation is complete we are now focused more than ever on managing our content-centric businesses to drive shareholder returns.
Our mix of revenue has become a more favorable blend of advertising content licensing and subscription fees including a growing base of contractually committed retransmission revenue as well as higher payments from our station affiliates.
As a result we will benefit even more from recurring and predictable revenue streams going forward which will in turn increase our visibility on profits and free cash flow.
Clearly CBS's transformation provides greater financial flexibility and an improved capacity to return value to our shareholders which will always remain a top priority for us going forward.
Just to give you an indication of how the separation of Outdoor and our transformation overall are leading to higher shareholder returns we spent $2.4 billion to retire 38.5 million shares of our stock in the first 6 months of 2014.
Then in July we retired an additional 44.7 million shares through our Outdoor exchange offer.
So in the last 7 months we have retired more than 83 million shares of our stock which is approximately 15% of our total shares outstanding.
Plus as you've now heard we are increasing our share repurchase program to $6 billion which represents an additional 20% of our market cap at our current stock price.
We also plan to significantly increase the pace of our share repurchases and we intend to be aggressive and opportunistic about it.
As part of our overall capital return plan we are comfortable raising our target leverage ratio to 2.5x gross net to OIBDA and we will continuously revisit this ratio as we execute on our revenue diversification efforts which we believe will provide further capacity over time.
In addition to all of that as you've also heard we are raising our quarterly dividend by 25% starting with the next payment date on October 1 of this year.
And with respect to all the talk about M&amp;A let me be clear we obviously look at every opportunity that arises within our industry.
But here at CBS we will continue to be very disciplined in our approach to M&amp;A and we do not see anything out there that would change the capital return plan we just laid out.
Lastly I'd like to add we continue to look for ways to optimize our debt portfolio by taking advantage of favorable capital markets to lower our interest expense and extend our maturities.
Looking at the second quarter there were 2 significant items that affected comparability with 2013.
First we had large international syndication sales of both CBS- and Showtime-owned content in Q2 of 2013.
And second last year CBS broadcast the semifinals of the NCAA men's basketball tournament which were on Turner this year.
Because of this impact of these 2 items our quarterly revenue came in at $3.2 billion compared with $3.4 billion in 2013 and why OIBDA was $801 million versus $848 million a year ago.
Even with that our OIBDA margin was steady at a healthy 25% because of our disciplined cost management efforts.
And as Les said our adjusted EPS which excludes Outdoor was up 4% to $0.78.
Including Outdoor in our results second quarter EPS was $0.76.
And on a year-to-date basis adjusted EPS was $1.61 up 7% from 2013.
Turning to our operating segments.
The 2 items I just outlined obviously affected certain business units more than others including Entertainment where revenue came in at $1.8 billion and OIBDA came in at $376 million.
Specifically we had large international sales last year that included 684 episodes of all 3 CSIs which boosted Entertainment revenues significantly.
And in Local Broadcasting the lack of the Final Four games this year as well as the loss of a major sports contract led to revenue of $665 million and OIBDA of $238 million.
Our Local Broadcasting OIBDA margins still came in at a solid 36%.
In cable second quarter revenue of $516 million was in line with last year when we had several international syndication deals for Dexter.
As we continue to own more and more of our Showtime content and license it around the world we will recognize the revenue as we make those shows available so looking at revenue on a year-to-date basis will be more meaningful.
Year-to-date cable revenue was up 6%.
Cable OIBDA for the quarter was also up 6% to $219 million driven by growth in our high-margin affiliate revenue.
And our cable OIBDA margin grew 200 basis points to 42%.
In Publishing higher print sales led to double-digit growth in both revenue and OIBDA.
Revenue of $211 million was up 12%; and OIBDA of $24 million was up 14% driven by a broad list of strong titles.
Turning to cash flow and our balance sheet.
Our quarterly free cash flow was affected by the timing of payments for our new 9-year Sunday NFL contract as well as our Thursday Night Football deal.
We expect fourth quarter free cash flow to be the beneficiary of this timing.
In addition we exited the quarter with $261 million of cash on hand and our leverage ratio was 1.9x.
Now let me give you a few observations about the back half of 2014 in each of our revenue categories.
In advertising we see national trends accelerating.
Meaning we see third quarter better than the second and fourth quarter better than the third.
This is driven by more original summer programming the addition of Thursday Night Football and higher rates from this year's upfront.
At the local level in Q3 TV stations are pacing to be up double digits while radio is pacing to be up low single digits led by political spending on midterm elections.
Content licensing and distribution will get a lift in the second half of the year from the syndication sale of Hawaii Five-0 and Blue Bloods as well as the new domestic Netflix library agreement that Les mentioned.
And in affiliate and subscription fees we will continue to show steady increases in retrans and payments from our station affiliates as well as in premium cable fees.
As mentioned we are well on our way to achieving $2 billion in revenue from retrans and our station affiliates in 2020.
In summary we said all along that upon the completion of our Outdoor transaction we would increase our capital return policy.
Today's announcements reaffirmed that commitment and demonstrate once again that returning value to our shareholders is our #1 priority.
We're also confident that our continued success will come from the significant organic growth we see ahead from our existing assets including the strategic steps we are taking to own more of our content and monetize it across emerging platforms.
Taken together our commitment to aggressively return value to shareholders and to fully capitalize on the strength of our content position CBS to drive EPS well into the future.
And with that Tom let's open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
The first Joe just to follow up on your commentary on the target leverage ratio.
Would -- if you're currently 1.9 and you're sort of comfortable going up to 2.5x would the full exercise of the newly expanded program to $6 billion by year-end fiscal '15 would that kind of get you to the 2.5x range? Or is there more room? And what would you do with the dry powder is the first question.
The second one is probably more directed at Les.
I don't know if you guys listened to the Time Warner call yesterday.
But Jeff Bewkes commented on the fact that the original programming is kind of getting higher ratings in something like 20% of the schedule right now and the Turner nets is original moving toward 40%.
And so my question -- and at the same time you're seeing new players come in like WGN America buying some of your higher quality off-net syndication.
So I was kind of curious as to your view net-net is the demand for sort of traditional off-net syndication is it going up? Is it staying the same? Or is it declining as you look at the way the off-net guys -- or the cable nets are programming? Let me do the second one first.
It's a little ironic that Jeff would say that when the highest-rated show on Turner is the Big Bang Theory which is off-net and they are running the sprockets off it.
So by the way Time Warner also owns that show.
So it's a little -- that is an odd statement.
I know people are doing more original programming but the big hits are still selling very well in off-net.
And there's so many other places to do it now with SVODs.
So we have little concern about that.
And then when you judge by what we've done with some of our other deals with Blue Bloods and Elementary and Good Wife we've been able to syndicate them across the board in multi-platform to the maximum usage.
And David on your first part of -- as far as the target leverage ratio what I would say is look we're going to be -- we're going to get there in short order.
But obviously as we grow EBITDA it would be creating additional capacity.
Again at these stock price levels again we said every dollar of excess free cash flow is going back to buy back our stock.
So you should expect that.
Our next question comes from Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Joe I'm sure you won't mind if we take another stab at that because it is a big announcement on the buyback.
I guess maybe a pointed question which is when do you look to reach that gross leverage target? Because as you mentioned you're at 1.9 and obviously you've got a big back half.
So in our numbers you'll be 1.7 1.75 by the end of the year.
When do you plan to raise that additional capacity to reach 2.5 gross? Yes.
Look I think what we said $6 billion.
Just to give you a time frame of the $6 billion we think that's again Ben somewhere between 12 and 24 months.
And again we're going to look at the EBITDA and the additional capacity we'd grow over time.
So we'll look at and we'll continue to revisit the 2.5.
I think the 2.5 we're comfortable with given our mix of assets now.
And so I think again just saying if you're looking at $6 billion over 12 to 24 months compared to an underlying -- what we were doing historically of $1.2 billion I mean you get a sense of the massive increase that is.
Research Division</strong> That is very clear.
And then Les there is certainly some concern out there around the licensing business growing over time.
It's about 1/3 of your revenue.
It's very high margin.
It's been a tremendous story the last few years.
Can you just spend some time on particularly international what's going on there? It's a big -- probably a bigger business than maybe people realize.
And then how you think about -- what you've learned on the SVOD front historically about whether there's some cannibalization of the core business as you release more and more product into the SVOD window because I think people have some concerns there as well.
Yes.
Look the international business continues to grow substantially.
One of the things that has changed obviously is the great expansion internationally of both Netflix and Amazon.
So it becomes a much more competitive marketplace in just about every one of the international territories.
So you're seeing huge international numbers bigger than I've ever seen before.
When you announce a new fall show that's a drama the numbers are truly extraordinary with rarely a number being below $2 million per episode for a brand-new drama and north of $3 million for some of the more established hits.
So that's fairly substantial.
In terms of the SVOD marketplace once again we are able to make deals consistently.
As we said we've expanded our Netflix library.
We are extremely pleased that our current 2 summer shows have deals with Amazon and the next year show has a deal with Netflix.
Plus each one of the shows that go into syndication we devise new ways of selling it.
So each one is done very differently than before where you sell it to cable you sell it to other -- to syndication channel as well as doing SVOD.
So the future is extremely bright in those areas.
And every single piece of product we've been able to maximize which is why we say when we announced NCIS: New Orleans with a huge international deal and already in place so they know what it is and sort of guaranteed deals domestically as well.
That's why we confidently say we're going to be north of probably $5 million an episode before the show even goes on the air not including advertising which is partially why it's on the air because it's a huge profit maker from day 1.
And the market -- so people who are worried about the marketplace I think those are the cable networks who are trying to shave pricing.
Our next question comes from Jessica Reif Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
Given the events over the last month and the hyper-focus on HBO -- you obviously have Showtime which has turned out to be jewel.
It's amazing that it almost went to Viacom.
But you do have Showtime.
And I'm just wondering are you thinking about changing anything in the model to either accelerate growth from -- granted a very high pace but accelerate growth or do anything to highlight the value of this asset? And then I'll ask my second question after.
Showtime the great news about Showtime is truly every single year their subs have gone up and obviously their fees have gone up every single year.
Plus as we mentioned we have added the syndication element to it because more and more of the programming on Showtime is owned programming.
Look Showtime Go -- Showtime Anytime was a little behind HBO GO but we've now sort of caught up.
We're in most of the country.
And the SHOWTIME ON DEMAND platform is growing.
So we are also looking at opportunities for Showtime to expand on different platforms.
It's been a great growth story and we plan on continuing it as long as we continue to do the kind of programs that we're doing and I think we have more coming up in the fall.
Research Division</strong> And then on content which -- I mean you clearly emphasized that CBS is now or has become a content-centric company.
You're clearly scaling up.
You mentioned all the companies -- internal companies you sell to or it's companies that you have an interest in and now outside companies third parties.
How tough is it to sell to other networks when everybody else is trying to sell internally to themselves? For the first time we sold the show to ABC.
It's the first time we have done that.
And I think it's about the content.
Obviously our studio looks to sell to CBS first and obviously a different kind of programming to the CW.
But I think the world -- look as soon as the new Fox team was announced I got a call from Peter Rice saying "We want to buy programs from you." So I think there's an openness to doing that and our studio is selling to other cable channels.
Plus I think shortly you're going to hear us being in business with some of the SVODs with original program.
So there's still a great deal of growth.
I think we have over 30 shows in production and that's only going to grow.
Our next question comes from Anthony DiClemente with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Les you guys were presumably a logical candidate to acquire CNN if that would have come up for sale as part of Fox Time Warner.
My guess is that there indeed was some meaningful industrial logic there.
You probably thought about it given the redundancies of news bureaus globally.
So I guess the question is with Fox having withdrawn their bid is this still possible on the CNN front? And then I have a follow-up.
Yes.
Obviously when the Fox announced was they said "Oh they'd have to sell CNN." We would be a logical place since we don't have a cable news network.
We thought about it.
We talked about it.
It's obviously something that's not going to happen.
So it becomes irrelevant.
The numbers they were throwing around were sort of silly and we wouldn't have looked at it on that basis.
And so it never became a very serious conversation because until Fox was going through with this deal and it absolutely became available would we have looked at it.
But once again as Joe mentioned we're pretty happy with our assets right now and I doubt we would look to do anything with something like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for Joe.
Joe could you just remind us of the cadence of your reverse comp renewals and how they come up over the next couple of years? Wondering if you can just update us on kind of the nature of complexion of your conversations with the independent affiliates particularly now in a post-Aereo potentially stronger retransmission content ecosystem? Yes.
We have a few major ones coming up at the end of this year Anthony with LIN and Gray.
But a majority come up really in '15 and '16.
So we'll get a shot to reset to fair market value on the station affiliate side.
And on the retrans side obviously we have DISH up this year and we have another 2 major deals up next year for about 13% of our footprint.
So I think again we're going to have a nice shot to really adjust some pretty old deals to fair market value.
Our next question comes from Michael Morris with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first one obviously you've been very committed to returning capital.
It's a big part of your use of cash flow.
I think it does raise some concern about reinvestment in the business.
So you talked about programming.
Can you help quantify a bit what the investment in programming looks like? How -- does that grow? What's the gating factor to that growth? As an investment is it just the appetite out there from your partners? How do you push that? So I guess what does the trajectory of growth in programming look like versus growth and your return of capital? And then secondly just with respect to Aereo the numbers were somewhat surprisingly low given all the hype that there was around it.
And I'm curious to your take on the mobile demand for your products.
You made some investments but is it -- are we still just well too early for that to become a revenue driver and Aereo was kind of evidence of that? Or is it something that you can push now that that's behind you? Yes.
Mike it's Joe.
As far as the growth in programming look first and foremost the best ROI we can deliver to shareholders is create another hit.
And so that by far is where the dollars go.
You've seen an NCIS spinoff a CSI spinoff.
We're going to try to continue to create billion-dollar franchises.
So we never starve investing in our business.
You're seeing that with our costs.
It's demonstrated with the NFL Thursday Night package.
So rest assured reinvestment in the business is ahead of our excess returns.
I think the reinvestment is what drives the excess returns quite frankly.
And obviously the summer programming you can see many more original hours in which we own that content.
So I think again it's really across the board.
It's a core part of our strategy we've been very consistent with.
As far as Aereo look the demand for our content I think speaks for itself.
I think we see that.
And as consumers evolve and want it in different forms or shapes we're going to make sure our content's there.
And so -- but we own those intellectual property rights.
And if we want to do that with a partner they have to negotiate with us for those rights to do that.
So we're very open to those types of conversations but we need to be paid fair market value.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you think a move for more mobile has to come from the MVPD side? Or is it something that you can start pushing a bit given some of the investments that you make? No I don't think it needs to come from the MVPD side.
If history tells us anything they move actually kind of slow.
So I think it may be coming from other technology companies or others that push that.
But I think it's really driven by the consumer.
And I think the consumer demand is saying that when we look at broadband only homes et cetera around this country.
So again very exciting for us for owning all of this content.
And now that it's evolved I think more and more of it should come back to the people who create it.
Next question comes from Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just circling back to your commentary about the C7 deals and the upfront.
Could you give us a sense about how substantial they were? And do you think that they may have depressed sort of the headline CPM increases in getting some of those deals done? Yes.
You know what? It's hard to quantify how many of them and we're not going to say how many of them.
But once again it is moving that way.
I expect by next year's upfront it to be 70% -- more than 75% of the deals will be C7s.
So we are well on our way to that a year from now.
And once again it's the right way to be.
Advertising agencies want it because it's a more accurate way of counting people who are watching our shows.
And you saw the lift.
I mean the lift in certain shows is more than 50%.
So it's pretty substantial.
As I said we as programmers have to look at the world in an entirely different way.
Nobody should even be looking at overnights anymore.
The C7 number is really the number that matters and it is a substantial amount of money that's gone into it.
That's all I could say.
And Alexia it's Joe.
I'd just add that even if a certain amount of advertising is only paid for C3 we have now dynamic ad insertion that we can insert new advertisers to generate more money.
So we're going to monetize the consumption one way or another.
Research Division</strong> And I guess to that point looking at the world in a whole new way and monetizing this consumption one way or the other I guess if you fast-forward a couple of years from now and the viewership patterns have really evolved even further do you think you guys come out in the same place or ahead than you did maybe 10 years ago when everything was more traditional standard day ratings and CPMs on that? Alexia at the end of the day it's all about content.
And clearly we're heading towards the universe where people are going to watch it when they want it how they want it.
As long as they're counted as long as we keep being sort of dominant in being the premier supplier of network programming we're always going to win we're always going to be fine monetarily.
So we're very excited about the future.
We're very excited how technology is changing what we're doing.
But it still depends on if -- people won't watch bad shows on good devices.
It still depends on having a good show.
Next question comes from David Miller with Topeka Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Joe one question for you.
I just want to make sure I have this straight in my head.
So I've always thought of CBS's return of capital program as being kind of 3 levels of buyback okay? There was the $6 billion organic buyback that you guys announced in your second quarter call last year okay May of last year.
Then there's the $2 billion ASR which you announced in I believe February of this year.
You did that very quickly.
That's done.
Then there's the share exchange which you did all in one tranche which is pretty incredible if I might add that.
The $6 billion today I just want to make sure I understand is that just absolutely purely organic again? Or does that include a portion of the first level that wasn't as of yet completed as of today? Yes.
Look the way -- it's a timing thing David.
I think you've got to look at the $6 billion as a fresh $6 billion $6 billion kind of from today over the next 12 to 24 months.
And as necessary along the way if we need to reload we'll reload again and again and look at the ratio.
So I think again you've got to look at more in actual than what we did over the last 7 months.
That's done.
The amount we bought back the year before is done.
And we're going to execute.
So yes it's a little bit fungible in the authorization.
But I think we were clear in that the pace in the buyback is going to increase significantly again because we have the capacity.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Les on this whole C3 versus C7 sort of vernacular that's going on we had thought just going into the upfront process that maybe you guys would sacrifice price and then sell more volume on the lower price.
And it looks like what happened was you did sacrifice price but volume just didn't come up to the level we thought because you guys sacrificed price.
So what gives you the -- it sounds like you're very confident about the second half in terms of a lot of dynamic soaking up that scatter inventory.
Is it all football? Is it football soaking up that inventory? Is it higher ratings? Is it the economy? Well just what gives you that level of confidence that you talked about in your prepared remarks? All right number one David I respectfully disagree.
I don't think we sacrificed price particularly.
I was very happy with our CPM growth which was fairly substantial.
And in terms of volume I think we went from selling 78% or 79% of our inventory to approximately 74%.
So all it means is I have 5% more of my inventory to sell in scatter.
Now that could be football at very high pricing or other programming.
Once again we are not worried because I think in 10 of the last 11 years scatter pricing has been up and in most cases substantially from upfront pricing.
So we view that only as a positive thing.
And going into the fall especially with Thursday Night Football and more original programming on the air because of that we're going to have no trouble selling our scatter pricing when you compare the amount that we have and what we have to our competitors.
Next question comes from Laura Martin with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I love that these numbers you gave on Elementary Under the Dome and Extant talking about this 35% to 50% audience lift within the 7-day window.
My question is as we think about economics the legacy [ph] trends to digital platforms are higher than the network CPM because the audience is younger but I also understand that the digital platforms are much less [indiscernible] because the monetization generally is weaker.
So I'm interested in whether this lift punches above its body weight.
Is it actually more additive to economics in the audience lift? Or is your gut feel that today it's less additive [ph] because of the immaturity of the nascence of the platforms? Laura it's Joe.
I'll take that.
It obviously helps it because obviously the younger viewers that are watching it on these other devices and in mediums is obviously going to be very attractive to advertisers.
So I think once you count it -- you count that in I think you're going to see the broadcast rating skew younger and larger.
And the gap between broadcasting cable will be further demonstrated.
So I think that's a -- it's going to be a nice point for advertisers to really get behind as that audience grows.
And you made a very valid point.
As those numbers are up 35% to 50% a large chunk of them are in the younger demographic.
A bigger chunk that watches it live.
So it will be by definition more valuable viewers.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Joe just on the back half like you say you are very confident on the back half.
Can you give us any margin guidance for the second half versus the first half? Yes.
Look we don't give margin guidance Laura.
I think we've demonstrated that we're able to manage our margin.
I think again as I said we are investing in our product.
Obviously the new Thursday Night NFL contract wasn't cheap.
But again we think it was the right thing to do.
So look we're going to continue to manage our margins and grow the top line and be focused on that.
But again I think overall you've seen margins be accretive as these new incremental revenue streams become more and more meaningful.
Our next question comes from Vijay Jayant with the ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> It's David Joyce here.
Just had a couple follow-ons to a couple other questions.
One on the reverse comp.
We had kind of the earlier working assumption that you would get half or a little more than half of the retrans fees from the non-owned TV stations.
Is that going to be creeping up given the investments in the programming now? And where do you see that getting to by mid-2020? Secondly on the dynamic ad insertion I was just wondering how widely distributed is that at this point for you.
And when do you think that capability for CBS will be fully distributed? I'll take the first one and then Joe can take the second.
In terms of reverse comp initially when reverse comp came into play everybody sort of said "Well it should be 50-50." And that was sort of the rule of thumb.
It's changed quite a bit since then.
Obviously the retrans numbers have gotten higher that some of our affiliates have gotten.
And obviously our programming is stronger.
So we don't use that as a basis.
We actually are now calling it a program fee which is a more appropriate term to acknowledge that.
And that 50-50 no longer is even a base that we use.
We decide what we think is fair.
It generally is higher than the 50% number.
And we negotiate on that basis.
And once again we're looking at the station groups.
They're all doing very well.
And they're doing well primarily because of network programming both in prime time and in sports.
So we feel it's a fair proposition for both sides.
And for DAI we have deals with all of the major players now.
And so you're going to see that kind of roll out and scale up with the new season.
Next question comes from John Janedis with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Les how bifurcated is the ad market? You talked about some softness.
But I mean on properties like the NFL on Thursday and I assume many others of yours are selling well.
So is the impact on you more so that there's some big categories that are weak and affecting sell-out and pricing across the market? And is the pickup in the third quarter broad across categories? It's -- the pickup is across all the categories.
And the pacing as I said nationally and locally is going up quite a bit.
The second quarter was a softer quarter which happens from time to time.
It also involved a lot less live programming and events like that.
So yes the NFL is selling something like -- on Sunday the package is up 30% to 40% and the Thursday Night package is up substantially.
In addition because of Thursday Night we're going to have more live programming and that goes on in the third quarter and the fourth quarter.
And that's going to help us quite a bit.
So I wouldn't call it bifurcated.
I'd just say look occasionally there's a soft quarter.
The important thing for us is that picking up substantially in the third and the fourth would be better than the third.
Next question comes from Alan Gould with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> I've got 2 questions.
First Les in this new on-demand world it seems like the repeats aren't playing as well as it used to unless it's a megahit like a Big Bang Theory.
Does this mean that you besides the summer season will have to have program -- more original programming and less repeats? Yes.
I'm mean we're already doing that.
Yes there's no question the repeats aren't doing quite as well as they used to.
So we are definitely trying to pack in our schedule with as many original programming.
That's what's sort of launched our summer programming idea when the repeats are in the summer weren't doing very well and we were able to get such good pricing both internationally and SVOD.
So that will go on throughout the year that you get a better ROI on original programming especially when you have ownership and you can cash in on the back end.
So you're seeing that.
One of the advantages of Sunday night football Thursday Night Football once again you're talking about 24 hours of original programming that can be pushed back into the rest of the year which will lead us to have more original programming throughout the year and less repeats and more live programming.
So it's definitely changed somewhat but we've taken advantage of it.
Research Division</strong> And if I could follow up with a second question.
The Netflix extension can you give us some idea how this -- or the new Netflix deal I should say as opposed to extension how this compares with your original deal from 3 years ago? Alan it's Joe.
Yes I would just say look it's not as large in terms of the number of titles.
But I think -- again I think it's critical to emphasize how Netflix -- we continue to extend our relationship with Netflix and broaden it again domestically and internationally.
So again I think they -- if they want some less product we're happy to do that.
But they still have to go through CBS because of the amount of volume we do have and our shows are working on their platform.
Research Division</strong> Now is this just U.S.? Or does this include also the 6 new countries they're going into? This was just U.S.
We'll take our next question from William Bird with FBR.
Research Division</strong> First I was wondering if you could talk about Nielsen's move to multiscreen currency and whether or not that changes your windowing strategy.
And then separately x Thursday Night Football could you talk about how network is pacing in the September quarter? Obviously everything Nielsen does is a positive for us.
They have been a little behind in their ability to account for C3 C7 online other areas.
They are doing a full court press to improve that and a lot of the advances that they're doing clearly are beneficial to us.
So we're very pleased with that.
In terms of the pacing without football it's very good.
It's much higher than it had been and we're pleased with it.
And that question comes from Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Joe I have 2 for you.
And I'm sorry I'm going to ask another share repurchase question.
I think...
So I just -- are you going to have a more opportunistic pace per quarter instead of just a flat pace per quarter? I think we're just trying to figure that out.
Yes.
I think the answer is yes.
I mean I think that's why in our prepared remarks we didn't want to just kind of buy just if the sun comes up.
So I think we're going to be smart about this and look for opportunity.
But again that being said is we are going to be aggressive because we do have the capacity.
So I don't think you should look for an even quarter each and every quarter to doing that.
Obviously in this third quarter the first 45 days here -- the first whatever days that's gone we were out of the market with the Outdoor exchange and earnings.
So by definition we're going -- it's going to be a little bit spread differently over the quarters.
But if there's an opportunity we're going to go in heavy.
And we're going to restart immediately.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a question on the TV side.
The stations I think were down 6% in the quarter.
And I know you mentioned some tough comps.
Do you have an apples-to-apples growth number? For Q2? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
Underlying Marci was probably down low single digits.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you remind us how much exposure you have to national versus local? Yes.
I think our stations skew a little bit more national.
I think local did perform a little bit better.
I think one category in particular on auto probably shifted money to live events maybe the World Cup or other things in Q2.
I think the good news is we're seeing that come back in Q3 with all of the live events and originals we talked about.
So it is our largest category auto for local.
So we're excited that it's -- we see it accelerating.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I have one last small one.
With the consolidation of the affiliate groups is that going to have any impact on what you can get from them from reverse comp? No we don't see it have any impact of what we ask for or what we get.
We hope it gives them more strength to go get higher retrans dollars on that end.
But we have a view of what fair market value is for our content and we get those same fees in markets where we own stations.
So we're feeling really good about our position in those negotiations.
And obviously they're doing that to get some more financial strength and wherewithal.
So that means it's -- they have the ability to pay.
So that's got to be a good thing.
And this concludes today's call.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Have a great evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the CBS Corporation Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Teleconference.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to the Executive Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our third quarter 2014 earnings call.
Joining us for the discussion are Sumner Redstone our Executive Chairman; Leslie Moonves President and CEO; Joe Ianniello Chief Operating Officer.
We will start with an opening comment from Sumner followed by Les and Joe who will discuss the strategic and financial results.
We will then open the call up to questions.
Please note that during today's conference call the 2014 results and comparisons to prior year will be discussed on an adjusted basis unless otherwise specified.
Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information related to this call can be found on our earnings release or on our website.
Also statements in this conference call relating to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involves risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed in CBS Corporation's news releases and securities filings.
A webcast of this call and earnings release related to today's presentation can be found on the Investors section of our website at cbscorporation.com.
With that let's start with an opening remark from Sumner.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the CBS Corp.
event.
Thank you Sumner and good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us.
I'm pleased to tell you today we reported another solid quarter.
Revenue of $3.4 billion was up 2%.
Adjusted EPS of $0.74 was up 6% and reported EPS was up much more to $3.03 thanks to the gain we posted by splitting off our Outdoor Advertising business.
We achieved these results because of the continued growth in our diversified set of revenue sources including healthy gains in content license fees strong underlying growth in affiliate fees and yes higher advertising which will increase even further here in the fourth quarter.
And while advertising revenue grew during the quarter our non-advertising revenue grew even faster and is becoming a bigger part of our results all the time.
In fact the third quarter was the first time that advertising made up less than 50% of our overall revenue.
And year-to-date we have now recorded an even 50-50 split between advertising and non-advertising revenue which is a far cry from the 70-plus percent of advertising that we had a few years ago.
What we are seeing is that the world of content monetization continues to expand across new devices and new distribution platforms.
And as it does we continue to invest in and to produce the best content which in turn strengthens our financial position.
This includes a number of recent developments that give us great confidence in the future.
First advertising is growing again here in the fourth quarter.
Our local businesses have benefited from some tough political campaigns which you saw yesterday culminating in spending that accelerated right up through yesterday's election.
And nationally CBS is once again the #1 network in America and we're up versus a year ago.
In fact we are the only network that is up year-over-year in all 3 key demos: viewers adults 25 to 54 and adults 18 to 49.
We're even the only network that is up 18 to 34.
All that this means we continue to get the first look at scatter budgets and capture the largest share of dollars of all broadcast networks.
And while broadcast as a whole is having a solid season basic cable is not doing as well.
So any share shift towards digital is coming primarily at the expense of cable and print.
Here at CBS as is virtually always the case scatter pricing is being written right now at a premium to upfront pricing.
Another development that gives us great optimism is the series of reverse comp deals that we did during the quarter.
Just like the Time Warner Cable deal a year ago we once again proved the value of CBS this summer during negotiations with the incumbent CBS affiliate in Indianapolis.
They did not want to pay market rates for our programming and so Tribune came in with a significantly better and fairer offer and we did a deal with them instead.
Soon after not surprisingly we quickly followed that up with a series of new reverse compensation agreements first with Gray Television then with LIN and then with Media General.
All of these deals were done at extremely attractive and growing rates.
So once again the free market worked and we're now on track to easily hit our goal of $1 billion in retrans and reverse comp as we exit 2016.
And we are more confident than ever that we'll achieve our goal of an impressive $2 billion in 2020.
By the way our next major deal in this area is with DISH Network.
The end of our current deal is approaching soon and we're determined to get paid fair value for our programming.
As you know by now we know how to get this done and rest assured we will.
The third recent development for us is the successful launch of our very own over-the-top service called CBS All Access.
All Access is additive to the overall ecosystem in that it primarily addresses consumers who are not currently MVPD subscribers.
It offers more top 25 current shows than any other SVOD service.
Plus it enables viewers to watch CBS live and to be counted outside the home.
So we're expanding our reach to new audiences especially younger viewers and proactively taking advantage of the growing mobile marketplace.
I'm also pleased to announce that we just reached a historic over-the-top agreement with Sony for rights inside the home.
Sony along with others who are getting into this space represents yet another iteration of content distribution.
And as new entrants they will pay us higher subscription fees than what we've ever been paid before.
So just like when telcos came along to compete with cable and satellite broadband services will help expand the universe of opportunities for companies like CBS that make the best programming.
All of these developments along with the many other opportunities we have in front of us are why we remain so confident about our future and it's why in addition to reinvesting on our content we are returning more value to shareholders than ever before.
Through the first 9 months of the year we retired nearly $5.5 billion of our stock and raised our dividend by 25% our second increase in 2 years.
And with the expansion of our share repurchase program that we told you about during our last call we have more than $5.5 billion to go.
So there's a lot more to come and returning value to shareholders will remain a top priority.
Now let's take a look at each of our businesses starting with entertainment and then I'll turn it over to Joe for more color followed by your questions.
As I mentioned the CBS Television Network had a terrific start to the new season.
Our new programs batted 1.000 going 4 for 4 with all 4 of our new dramas being picked up for the full year.
The good news is we own 100% of 3 of these new shows: NCIS: New Orleans; Scorpion; and Madam Secretary.
Meaning we have once again reloaded the content pipeline with new franchises that we will monetize around the world for many years to come.
And we continue to beat the competition.
In addition to being the only network that's up in all key measures we also have the #1 drama and the #1 show overall in NCIS; the #1 and #2 new dramas in NCIS: New Orleans and Scorpion; the #1 comedy Big Bang Theory; and the #1 news program 60 Minutes.
Plus 4 of the top 5 prime time shows are on CBS as well as 6 of the top 10 more than all of the other networks combined.
Thursday Night Football has clearly been a great addition to our lineup as well.
Even with the number of blowout games we grew CBS' strong Thursday ratings from a year ago and we nearly doubled the ratings for the comparable games last year on the NFL Network.
In our final prime time game on CBS we beat Sunday Night Football with the highest-ranked NFL game of the week.
This was the first time that a Thursday night NFL game has ever come in ahead of Sunday Night Football.
The NFL continues to be extremely valuable for us on Sunday as well.
This past weekend we have the third highest regular season game in 16 years when the Patriots beat the Broncos.
The addition of Thursday Night Football also allowed us to strengthen our lineup with some key scheduling moves for example by moving Big Bang from Thursdays to Mondays for the first 6 weeks of the season.
We were able to create the perfect lead in for Scorpion clearly contributing to that show's success.
Scorpion by the way provides a good illustration of the growing trend across our industry towards huge increases in delayed viewing.
As you've heard me say and as the facts prove overnight ratings are becoming more and more irrelevant all the time.
Day of air Scorpion averaged 13 million viewers this season.
But after 7 days its average increases by 5 million additional viewers to 18 million all of which are being counted by Nielsen.
And the bigger the show the bigger the opportunity.
Big Bang NCIS NCIS: New Orleans are all drawing more than 20 million viewers when you add in 7 days a week.
20 million viewers week in and week out.
How many cable shows can say that? How many online shows or hits does it take to get that kind of reach in one place? Yes those are rhetorical questions.
I should also point out that the CW which we co-own with Warner Bros.
is also off to a great start.
The debut view of The Flash was the CW's most-watched telecast ever and Jane the Virgin which we own also had a strong debut in one of the most critically acclaimed shows of the new fall season.
Our content continues to be in high demand overseas as well.
We've already begun licensing all of our new owned hits in the international marketplace including Scorpion NCIS: New Orleans Madam Secretary Jane the Virgin and Showtime's The Affair.
We also got a jump-start overseas with our new CSI CSI: Cyber which doesn't debut on CBS until mid-season but has already been licensed in more than 200 international markets.
That is 6 brand-new owned programs that are entering the never-ending cycle of syndication revenue.
Plus in addition to more traditional domestic and international outlets CBS Studios has begun creating original content for SVOD distribution partners too.
So along with all of the content we create and own for CBS Showtime the CW and outside broadcast and cable networks we can now add digital streaming companies to that list as well.
More deals along these lines are coming soon.
At the same time CBS Studios is also expanding into late nights.
Currently our late night shows are owned by Worldwide Pants but beginning next year the Late Show with Stephen Colbert and the Late Late Show with James Corden will be produced and owned by CBS meaning we'll have the right to license these programs in a number of ways we couldn't before.
And as you know late night shows are very popular and highly monetizable on digital platforms.
And in another important development tomorrow CBS News is launching a new streaming service called CBS N that will allow us to take all of the content we create across our news division and distribute it across the leading digital platforms without the costs associated with the Cable News Network.
This service will provide programming 24/7 to a whole new audience and along with All Access demonstrates the way we are following our viewers with CBS content wherever they are.
As digital media expands CBS Interactive is growing at a fast clip too.
Advertising was up strong double digits in Q3 and we continue to post growth in profit quarter after quarter.
Turning to cable.
Showtime continues to be a truly remarkable story for us as well and it is excelling both creatively and financially.
On the creative side our programming has never been better including strong performances by Homeland The Affair Masters of Sex and Ray Donovan which just concluded one of the best seasons of television we've seen in a long time.
And we just announced the revival of Twin Peaks which by the way has been one of the biggest television stories in social media.
On the financial side in addition to growth in affiliate fees we continue to increase our ownership in original programming.
We now have ownership in more than 10 series on Showtime with several more to come.
So in addition to rates and subscribers syndication has become a major driver of Showtime's growth.
Also in cable we announced plans during the quarter to rebrand TVGN our co-venture with Lionsgate.
Beginning in the first quarter the network will be called Pop with more than 400 hours of original programming including 6 new original series as well as a number of shows from our extensive CBS library.
Since we made our investment in this network in 2013 ratings and key measurements have grown every single quarter and we're confident that will continue into 2015 as well.
In publishing we are very pleased with the leadership Simon &amp; Schuster showed in its groundbreaking deal with Amazon.
This was a terrific deal financially for both Simon &amp; Schuster and its authors and it established the strength of our publishing business for the future.
As we look ahead to Q4 we have a number of strong titles still to come including releases from Stephen King Tony Robbins and Mary Higgins Clark.
In local both our television and radio stations had very strong quarters.
On the television side political spending retrans and NFL sales all contributed to double-digit third quarter growth and Thursday Night Football has given a significant lift to our late local news here in the third and fourth quarter.
All but one of our games featured teams from our O&amp;O markets resulting in late news ratings that were 20% higher in our key news demos -- demo of adults 25 to 54.
Looking ahead we're confident that going mobile with CBS All Access will help our television stations continue to grow in the digital future.
Radio also had a strong quarter as we continue to focus on our big market strategy.
Last month we made an agreement with the Beasley Broadcast Group to swap 14 stations for 5 stations exiting some of our midsized markets while building our presence in Philadelphia and Miami.
We own television duopolies in both of these major markets meaning our new radio stations are a terrific complement to our existing local portfolios.
So across CBS the creation and monetization of our premium content continues to drive our results and nobody knows how to do it better than us.
Each call we have with you we tell you about all the new opportunities in front of us thanks to the way we continue to reload our world-class content and this quarter was no different.
We launched 5 new owned hit series across our networks including Scorpion NCIS: New Orleans and Madam Secretary at CBS; Jane the Virgin on the CW; and The Affair on Showtime with the sixth CBS Cyber (sic) [CSI: Cyber] still to come.
All of these shows will be monetized for years to come through multi-platform syndication deals around the world.
In addition CBS Studios is steadily increasing its output of shows that we own by distributing across a growing variety of broadcast cable and now streaming outlets.
We also launched CBS All Access and we're about to launch a new streaming service in CBS News and we're about to begin working with a whole new entrant in distribution thanks to our Sony agreement.
Plus during the quarter we continue to renegotiate retrans and reverse comp deals at much better rates putting us at a clear path to $2 billion in revenue in 2020.
And we've gone mobile with our TV stations have traded up to beachfront property in radio and cut a terrific new deal at Simon &amp; Schuster with Amazon.
And remember once again CBS remains America's #1 network up in every key demo something none of our competitors can say.
Through all this we're returning value to our shareholders like never before with lots more to come.
So we continue to build on our position of strength and we feel more confident all the time about our future.
And with that I will turn it over to Joe.
Thanks Les and good afternoon everyone.
In a little bit I'll give you some more details about our third quarter results and now I'll talk about what we see ahead in the fourth quarter and into 2015.
But first I'd like to give you a final update on our Outdoor initiatives and discuss how we have set ourselves up for continued future growth.
During the third quarter we completed the split off of CBS Outdoor culminating in a gain of $1.6 billion.
The better news is the actual financial impact of our Outdoor initiative has been far greater than the $1.6 billion.
All in we delivered nearly $6 billion of total value.
So we accomplished just what we said we would which is unlock tremendous value for our shareholders and reshape CBS into a company that is solely focused on premium content.
Let me give you some more details about these shareholder returns.
In the first 9 months of this year we have retired more than 90 million shares of our stock.
This represents about 15% of total shares outstanding.
Keep in mind that we were locked out of making any share repurchases for a good part of the third quarter because of the completion of the Outdoor split off.
So the $400 million of cash that we used on buybacks in Q3 is just a starting point and you can expect to see an accelerated pace of quarterly share repurchases going forward.
As Les said we had $5.6 billion remaining on the program as of September 30 and we remain fully committed to returning that $5.6 billion over the next 12 to 24 months.
The other key strategic reason for the separation of our Outdoor businesses was to further transform CBS into a company that is driven by the creation and monetization of the best content in the world.
In many ways the third quarter epitomizes the strength of this strategy.
Our results benefited from the content licensing of our current hit shows both in the U.S.
and internationally as well as higher revenue from reverse compensation.
In fact the 4 new reverse comp deals we made during the third quarter covered 53 stations representing 22% of our affiliate footprint and we have another 45 stations to renew in 2015.
Even more than that as Les mentioned our investment in programming has led to 6 new content franchises that we own including NCIS: New Orleans and CSI: Cyber.
Both NCIS and CSI already represent multibillion-dollar franchises for us and these new spinoffs along with the other shows we launched during the quarter will significantly add to that potentially leading to billions of dollars in profits in the years to come.
Already the diversification of our revenue streams is having a big impact on our results.
The third quarter -- during the third quarter advertising made up just 46% of total revenue and on a year-to-date basis advertising was barely 50% of total revenue.
Now let me give you some more details about our third quarter results.
Revenue of $3.4 billion was up 2% during the third quarter which spread across our 3 key revenue categories.
Advertising grew 2% helped by Thursday Night Football and strong political spending.
Content licensing and distribution was up 4% led by increases in TV license fees and streaming revenues both here in the U.S.
and internationally as well.
And underlying affiliate and subscription fees increased 6%.
Strong growth in retrans and reverse comp offset the difficult comparison to last year when we had the Floyd Mayweather/Canelo Alvarez fight on Showtime which was the largest pay-per-view boxing event of all time.
OIBDA came in at $814 million down 2% reflecting our increased investment in programming including Thursday Night Football.
However SG&amp;A costs were down 7% for the quarter yielding an overall OIBDA margin of 24%.
We also posted EPS growth once again just as we have for the last 19 consecutive quarters.
Let me say that again.
We have posted EPS growth for the last 19 quarters in a row.
And for this quarter EPS was up 6% to $0.74.
It's also worth noting that foreign exchange rates cost us $0.04 per share due to the strengthening U.S.
dollar.
There were also 2 actions we took during the quarter that will result in future benefits.
First we cut costs throughout our businesses resulting in restructuring charges of $26 million and the payback on these cost-cutting measures is less than 1 year.
Next we refinanced high interest rate notes at much lower rates resulting in a $219 million after-tax charge on the early extinguishment of debt.
This refinancing along with the debt we paid off in the second quarter will reduce the run rate of our annualized interest expense by $35 million.
Now let's turn to our operating segments.
In Entertainment revenue for the third quarter came in at $1.9 billion up 1% from last year.
The increase was driven by higher affiliate and subscription fees; growth in television licensing which includes the domestic syndication sale of Hawaii Five-0 and Blue Bloods; and healthy gains in international revenue.
Entertainment OIBDA was $335 million compared with $431 million last year because of the investment we made in programming.
In our Cable Networks segment Q3 revenue of $624 million was up 5% driven by strong growth in Showtime licensing fees from the sale of Dexter as well as Californication.
Plus we posted higher affiliate revenue from increases in rates and telco subs.
All of these gains helped offset the comp of last year's third quarter when we had that big pay-per-view fight which by the way affected our cable revenue growth by 7 points.
Cable OIBDA of $272 million was up 4% for the quarter and our Cable OIBDA margin was a healthy 44%.
Turning to Publishing.
Third quarter revenue was $199 million compared with $224 million last year due to the timing of title releases which we expect to improve in the fourth quarter.
Digital book sales represented 28% of total revenue up 1 point from Q3 of 2013.
Publishing OIBDA of $43 million was even with last year and as a result of lower selling costs the publishing OIBDA margin expanded 3 percentage points to 22%.
In Local Broadcasting third quarter revenue of $680 million was up 6% driven by strong political spending as well as higher affiliate and subscription fees.
TV stations were up 10% while radio was up 2%.
In addition our local digital businesses continue to post double-digit revenue growth.
Local Broadcasting OIBDA of $214 million grew 18% driven by higher revenue as well as lower programming costs.
In Local Broadcasting OIBDA our margin expanded 3 percentage points to 31%.
Turning to cash flow and our balance sheet.
Our free cash flow during the quarter included payments of $360 million made in connection with the debt refinancing I mentioned as well as additional NFL payments.
We expect fourth quarter free cash flow to be much stronger than a year ago.
Our gross debt to OIBDA ratio at 9/30 was 2.1x.
And as we have said before we are comfortable raising our target ratio to 2.5x as part of our capital return plan.
So we still have plenty of debt capacity to utilize.
We also exited the third quarter with $178 million of cash on hand.
Now let me give you a few observations about what we see ahead in Q4 and into 2015.
As we shared on our last call we see revenue building through the end of the year with the fourth quarter shaping up to be our strongest of 2014.
Our TV stations are pacing to be up teens and radio is pacing to be up mid-single digits.
Looking out into 2015 we have some significant deals coming up in retrans and reverse comp.
In addition to the reverse comp deals that I previously mentioned we have about 25% of our retrans footprint coming up for renewal over the next 12 months.
And as you know each deal we do resets the bar for the next.
So we are as confident as ever in reaching our stated goal of $2 billion in retrans and reverse comp in 2020.
In addition many of our distribution partners would like to offer more of our programming to their customers on-demand and outside the home.
So with so many successful franchises at CBS Showtime we have lots of opportunities to further monetize our vast programming assets.
Also in 2015 our hit show Elementary will become available in first cycle domestic syndication because of the multi-platform deals we already have in place.
We are on track once again to have another record year of EPS in 2014.
And as we move into 2015 we will certainly be expecting to do it again.
So in summary we are posting healthy gains year-after-year while setting up CBS for an even brighter future.
As we continue to diversify our revenue base our business model is only growing stronger.
To that end the best thing we can do is invest in and produce premium content.
This is already paying off for us in a big way with the launch of new owned hits at CBS The CW and Showtime.
Given our track record we are confident we will continue to reap the benefits for many years to come as we monetize our programming across traditional and emerging platforms.
And all along you can be certain we will continue to focus on driving shareholder value.
So we are very pleased with where we are and where we're going.
And with that Tom we can open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Les can you talk about the decision to pay for the NFL this year and how it's impacted your schedule and your results versus your expectations? And I think the NFL has the potential to extend the contract with yourself next year.
How are you feeling about that? Are you expecting and hoping to have that extended? And I just had a quick question for Joe on currency.
You mentioned the $0.04.
Any sense for where -- can you help us see where that's coming from I'm guessing it's licensing? And what the Q4 impact might be? Yes regarding NFL we're extremely pleased.
Unfortunately there were 4 blowout games among those that were aired but the ratings were still very strong.
And obviously it helps our entire schedule.
We're able to as I mentioned move Big Bang to Monday with -- and our Monday numbers were up a lot because of that and that certainly helped it.
We're very pleased obviously with the 1-year deal.
And the NFL does have an option.
We hope they pick it up.
The good news and we said this last quarter because of Thursday Night Football we're going to have more original programming throughout the year.
And as time goes on that becomes more and more important especially as we own that program.
So you're going to see a lot less repeat programming and we expect our continued success.
So all in all Thursday Night Football has been a big plus to us and we hope to continue.
And Ben on your second question regarding foreign currency what that represents really is the translation adjustments as of 9/30.
So the rate as of September 30 is basically converting our receivables mainly in Europe -- in euros and pounds to U.S.
dollars so we don't know where the rate will be as of December 31.
Again so we just wanted to point it out.
We did not adjust it out of our result but we just wanted to highlight it for you guys.
Our next question comes from Jessica Reif-Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have a bunch of quick -- I hope quick ones.
On CBS All Access how big is that addressable market? I mean did you think this is just going to be for like avid viewers or broadband only? How do you guys think about that? As we said we think it is additive and it shouldn't take away from -- and there's a -- there's many millions of people out there on college campuses the cord-nevers the cord-cutters who want the ability to have and there are 10 million broadband-only consumers out there and we expect to be able to get those people and reach those people and we're very excited about our foray into it.
As we said this is not to hurt our partnerships with the MVPDs that is not our intention but it should be expansive.
Research Division</strong> And along those lines what you announced today the CBS News service is that an advertising-supported service launching tomorrow? Yes it is.
It launches tomorrow.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 other really quick ones.
But Showtime in light of HBO's announcement at their Analyst Day a month ago do you have any plans to go over the top broadband along the CBS All Access lines? Jessica it's Joe.
Look obviously we see the same opportunity HBO does.
We'll look to work with our partners on doing that but as Les said the 10 million broadband-only homes to not make our programming available is certainly doing a disservice to those consumers.
So we have to find creative and innovative ways to continue to have our content where the consumers are.
So we're going to work with our partners to do that.
Research Division</strong> And then one last one.
Just on DISH can you just remind us have you done your retrans deal with them given all the noise around Time Warner? No.
We're -- our deal is up at the end of November and we are in discussions with them as we speak.
And I know Charlie had some disparaging things to say about CNN.
I don't think he could say the same about CBS.
Next question is from David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay 2 questions.
The first one I guess going back to the ad market on scatter.
Could you guys talk about if you kind of carve out the impact of the NFL which I know is really difficult what does the sequential delta been like in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter? Did you see real softness in the third quarter? And did you see an improvement in that market like some others have even on the broadcast side? And the second question is can you kind of update us on the international licensing market? You sold Madam Secretary into Sky.
You referenced the CSI: Cyber deal.
What kind of numbers do those shows do? Are they like domestic first run SVOD type numbers? And where overall is your sort of run rate on international licensing right now? Joe you want to do the first one and I'll do the second? Yes sure.
Here's what I'd say David on the ad market.
Look Q3 ad trends are improving from Q2 like we said and Q4 is accelerating.
So I think we said even on our last call we see it picking up.
It's hard to just say excluding the NFL when it's 3 hours of prime time on Thursdays for us.
So what do I assume if we pull that out.
So again we're looking at it really holistically and just saying we have the ratings and the content that consumers want they're watching it live and they're watching it delayed.
So when we cume all of that we are well-positioned to take these dollars.
So as Les said pricing is up and demand is building.
So we're very confident that we're going to continue to see that and we like the hand we have.
And David regarding international marketplace everybody knows that it's booming and American dramas specifically are selling -- they're the best sold product there.
We did $1.3 billion in revenues last year.
We expect to increase on that this year.
Once again if you go selling a CBS drama just about every single one of them is north of $2 million per episode.
And that number at the CW comes down a little bit but because of what's happening with SVOD as well as new cable channels the marketplace is very vibrant obviously the U.K.
Germany Canada et cetera.
So having more content is a real plus for us.
We have many output deals and many deals where they're in the open market.
So we're very happy having these own shows being in profit before they even hit the air and then when they become successes on any of our networks that only increases its profitability.
Next question is from Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You guys have great perspective in terms of what's going on in the industry with one of the strongest content stories but yet still healthy exposure to advertising.
I guess can you provide us with some perspective on how quickly you think the ecosystem is changing in terms of consumption of media and where advertising dollars are going? And what that means in terms of your priorities in terms of investments? I mean does for example investing potentially in traditional cable become less attractive now? Yes Alexia it's Joe.
Look here's what we said.
Our buzzwords around here are broadband and mobile and I think everyday we see more and more consumption in those 2 kind of platforms and so how we're addressing that is making sure the best content in the world which we own is there.
And so we're mindful of the existing infrastructure but this is additive and we want to evolve with that.
So our thinking is the content is borderless.
It goes domestically and internationally and it goes to where the consumers want to consume it.
So we need to figure that out.
The good news for us is we have those rights.
Because we own most of our content we're going to figure that out and evolve with the consumers.
This is being driven by the consumer and so again we'll obviously do this with partners and help distribute that content but it puts us in a very good position vis-à-vis the future business model of what it looks like.
So advertising is a key component of our mix.
It will continue to be a key component and we're going to get paid for this viewership and that's key.
It's being measured countered and we expect to be paid for it.
So I think our expectations are very fair.
We're the best at what we do and we expect to be paid that way.
Research Division</strong> And just one quick follow-up if I may on reverse compensation.
It seems like you're getting right into the thick of things in terms of your affiliate renewals coming ahead.
I guess you mentioned your success in getting fair market value in some of these recent renewals.
Given the growing value of the NFL and your content has your view of what fair market value kind of inched up a bit recently? Of course it has.
Obviously we've said this and we feel this way.
We're the #1 network.
We have football on Sunday and on Thursday.
We have the best content throughout.
And as we said in our remarks every new deal exceeds the one before both in terms of reverse compensation as well as retrans.
And the marketplace is treating us that way.
It's -- we've always said if you have the most eyeballs you should get the most dollars.
That has not happened yet.
There's still a number of cable channels that get paid more than we do but we're trying to change it and with every new deal we are changing it.
Our next question comes from Michael Morris with Guggenheim Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple more questions on the content side.
First you had -- you said the higher TV licensing and subscription fees this quarter in the entertainment segment which was a positive given that I think you had a somewhat tough comparison.
Can you talk a little bit about the entire back half of the year? I guess the concern would be that we don't always see the timing of when things come through.
So was there anything that was a fourth quarter phenomenon last year that was maybe kind of pulled into the third quarter? Or are you still well-positioned for the fourth quarter as well? And then the second question a little bigger picture.
The new -- the successful new shows on CBS this fall.
I don't mean to get ahead of ourselves.
I know you're already licensing them internationally.
How long do you want to see the high level of performance for those shows? Or do your partners want to see it before you start having the discussions about some more ways to monetize them domestically? Joe why don't you do the first? I'll do the second.
Mike I'll start with the first one on the content.
Look content licensing is definitely lumpy.
There's no question about it.
So this quarter we sold Hawaii Five-0 and Blue Bloods.
So it definitely had that.
Again I think that the point is we keep reloading.
We have Elementary going.
So we have nothing hitting first cycles domestic syndication next quarter.
We did sell Dexter last year.
So there'll always be different comps in and out.
But just keep in mind Mike that we have a vast library.
So we can sell other content.
And so I think I know that's hard for you guys to model and project out so I appreciate the difficulty there but I think again if you step back and just think about the library and the content we have it's just timing.
You might just be off 1 quarter or 2 but the fact of the matter is we're going to monetize it at higher and higher rates.
So we want to make sure we do a good deal.
So we don't really look at whether it's going to be in the fourth quarter of 2014 or the first quarter of 2015.
We're trying to maximize the value of the franchise.
And when the marketplace gives us that opportunity we'll do it.
And Mike regarding the new shows of course we're having discussions.
As you recall I think we sold Hawaii Five-0 like 3 days after it premiered.
And having 2 already established franchises having sequels to them with NCIS and CSI we're already having conversations out in the marketplace domestically about what is possible and how you structure these deals.
Fox did a very interesting deal with Gotham right after it went on the air and they sold it to Netflix among other places and did a very clever deal.
Obviously we're out there.
We're talking to them about all our shows right away.
So deals can be happening very shortly.
It's a different world than you just have to wait a couple of years to see results and I think people anticipate where we are now in a few weeks.
Next question comes from Anthony DiClemente with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> You guys have talked about the chance for bringing Showtime over the top like HBO's announcement.
So you also announced in the quarter the sale of Dexter and Californication.
So can you just talk about how you decide to license some of those Showtime shows as opposed to like Californication as opposed to keeping them in-house at Showtime so as not to potentially dilute the future value of potential Showtime over the top offering? And I have a follow-up.
Yes Anthony it's Joe.
Look we've been very conservative with monetizing the Showtime content.
I think HBO now sells their shows after 3 years.
That's on the air.
We wait till the show is effectively off the air to sell it.
So that's really been the rule of thumb that if no current content is available on any other service in Showtime.
So that's where we've drawn the line to date.
Obviously we're getting more and more data but Showtime as a service is a unique offering that has high-quality premium content.
It has sports.
It has movies.
It's very -- it's unique in its offering and we will always maintain that.
I think the one-off shows after they come into the library we're going to just look to optimize it like we do any of our other pieces of our library.
Yes Dexter went off the air a little over a year ago and Californication went off the air this year.
In the HBO offering remember they said sometime in '15 they're going to offer an HBO service.
We could say fairly definitively sometime in '15 there will be some service from Showtime.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just turning to Netflix.
I know you guys announced a deal in the quarter with Netflix in Europe.
Joe can you just help us with the model on Netflix licensing revenues.
Does that deal all get booked entirely in the fourth quarter? Does it spread into 2015? And then also just in the U.S.
in terms of your renewal with Netflix can you please update us on where the negotiation for that the U.S.
renewal with Netflix stands? Yes look -- yes sure.
Look we have ongoing conversations with Netflix all the time.
So we're always talking to them about something.
So you should assume that that happens every single quarter.
The international deal we recognize the revenue once -- when the shows are made available.
So if it's a library deal the shows are recognized again upon execution as long as we deliver the shows.
If it's for new shows internationally where they're getting an earlier window it's when the shows are made available.
So that's the accounting recognition process.
So that's what we follow.
Again it does cause lumpiness but again I think Anthony the takeaway is Netflix continues to do business with us because we have content their subscribers want to see and as long as we have that dynamic we're going to be fine.
Next is John Janedis with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Les you talked a little bit about the ad market and I'd say it's been a very long time since anybody's talked about broadcast actually taking share from cable.
And I wanted to ask you what are your advertisers telling you about the allocation of their broader TV budgets in terms of the shift? Maybe to what extent is it sustainable? Or it's just because of the weak ad market? We had a weaker market over the summer obviously and there was a slowness in the marketplace.
But overall broadcasting this year of the 4 major networks 3 of them in viewers are flat or up.
So there isn't a decline yet.
You do see in basic cable more of a decline across the board.
So our advertisers are telling us obviously that once again to reach the broad marketplace that we're still the best game in town and we're seeing scatter grow.
Definitively I can't give -- I can't quantify how much is moving to us.
Obviously there's a lot of conversation about what is going digital.
We don't think the advertising that's going digital affects the $20 million -- the 20 million viewer programs like we are.
We think it affects more of the niche businesses that we're not in.
We'll go next to David Miller with Topeka Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Joe I just want to understand the $52 million impairment charge.
Was that just a pure programming impairment? Or I just want make sure you're not impairing any licensing or any other stuff in there.
And then I have a follow-up.
Yes sure David.
The $52 million is related to the Beasley swap for radio.
So basically again the accounting rules when you enter into a transaction based on the FCC licenses and goodwill values and where things are is we record that charge there.
So it has nothing to do with any programming assets at CBS.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just a follow-up on retrans for next year.
As we gear up to just kind of watch how this all plays out with reverse retrans in these negotiations you guys have coming up sort of in late Q1 early Q2 is the right way to think about how you'll negotiate this that you're just going to try to extract the highest number from the non-owned affiliates? Or will you actually help them? Will you help them in their negotiations with the MSOs and then try to take half? I'm just kind of wondering the style of negotiation you're planning to take.
Yes David look our style is we don't plan on negotiating deals for other third-parties.
We're going to negotiate deals for ourselves and we know what fair market value is for our content.
Again we have third-party deals that demonstrate just that.
So we're going in negotiating new deals for call it license fees for content we're providing very valuable content I might add to these stations that allows them to go out and get retrans as well as advertising because remember they're probably the #1 station in their local markets and I suspect they're getting a whole lot of advertising dollars and last I checked when I see TV stations' OIBDA margins they're pretty healthy.
So we're going in with a number in mind and we are determined as Les said to achieve it.
Next question comes from Laura Martin with Needham.
LLC Research Division</strong> So my question comes -- I was speaking at the NAV yesterday and a lot of those guys are saying that when you bring them the competition for All Access they're going to cash for $1 or $2 from you.
And so I'm wondering I know you started with your ONOs at 30% or 40% coverage but as you think about trying to make that a national signal which is what your customer is used to when he pays $6.
How much are you going to actually end up with in the sort of 60% of country you don't own? And following on that building on that also I'm very interested Joe in your thinking about kind of people follow your lead because you guys are the smart guy in the business and if somebody like a Food Network which has always been $0.50 in the bundle spins off follows your lead goes over the top then someone cuts the cord you CBS lose sort of $1.50.
So it feels like sort of a math is your upside is $4 since you've got to pay your affiliate $2 and you're going to lose $1.50 if Food Network follows your lead and somebody cuts the cord with you in it because they're just going to take Food Network instead.
So walk me through how you think about the math there? Whoa Laura that was a lot with a bad connection but I'll take a shot at it.
Look for All Access I think we definitely see the affiliates joining in.
I think we've had lots of conversations with them already.
I think they're excited about it.
They will participate in the offering.
It is a national service.
It's the live piece that we're talking to the affiliates about.
We think again it's a compelling offering.
As Les said in this one service already it has more shows than any other subscription service that's out there.
So yes obviously it is priced at a significant premium to where we are in the retrans reverse comp methodology just for that for again protection.
We don't see it cannibalizing.
We see it as additive but again it's priced as such that it is a premium product because the offering is deep.
And Laura just to clarify it is now a national offering without the live feed.
Now we're getting -- as Joe mentioned we're cutting in the affiliates and they're trying to -- we're making these deals with them to include the live feed but the rest is available nationally right now.
Next question comes from Vijay Jayant with Evercore ISI.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to get your opinion from a strategic perspective.
Obviously Starz allegedly is trying to shop itself.
I mean you talked about over-the-top aspirations off Showtime in the future.
Is that strategic? Is there huge cost savings you can see even considered an asset like that? And a follow-up.
I just want to get some color on political.
I think we had you guys doing about $180 million in the last midterm.
Is that sort of the numbers that you got this year too? Look Starz there are 3 premium cable networks HBO Showtime and Starz.
Showtime is doing extremely well and we've done the basis of that on our original programming.
The Starz programming is based more on movies.
It's a very interesting asset but we feel content with what we have right now.
And on political Vijay look I'm not sure where we ended yesterday.
I would say political definitely there was a frenzy towards the end and there was a lot of spending going on so we haven't quite tallied it.
Whether or not we set a new record to be determined but I would say it certainly accelerated towards the end of the election.
Yes we actually called the White House and asked them to extend the date for another week so we could take in more revenue but they wouldn't do that.
Next question comes from Jim Goss with Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Time Warner this morning was arguing for a broadcast model similar to that HBO and Showtime are implying with a lot of the program library available for SVOD.
And I think you do that to some extent but I'm wondering how extensive it is right now? Who calls the shots in that area? And what is the monetization opportunity? Is it loyalty and then payback in retrans? Or is there some other monetization opportunity upfront? Jim I'm not sure what -- I didn't hear what Time Warner said about a broadcast model.
We're very careful about making sure that we don't cannibalize what's on the air and make sure our viewers got an opportunity to see our programming in as many ways possible.
We have a very deep library but I don't quite understand the question.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well it seemed like they thought if to the extent you can catch up with all of the series which we can I think at least in some of your shows is that something that's desirable to you? And how that would -- how you would get paid for that if you were to do that more? Jim if what you're saying is there's delayed viewing and consumers' habits are changing for binge or catch up that's absolutely occurring.
And I think that's why Les has said the live rating means a lot less today than it is even just a year ago.
So we are making sure that A it's being measured the ad loads are the same and we can monetize it.
So I just think that again the consumption is still ahead of monetization so that's a good thing but it creates an opportunity for us.
So once again that's why we have All Access and these other kind of platforms to be able to reach those consumers because they have changed their habits technology has changed and allowed them to view the content on their terms and we're going to embrace that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And as sort of as a corollary as your own programming library becomes more and more robust as you've described do you either desire or even need another cable channel? Or could you repurpose one of the other ones you have to take more full advantage of that library? I don't think right now we need a cable channel.
We're able to monetize our content in a tremendous way without having to acquire a cable channel.
And that question comes from Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 2.
The first you mentioned that CBS All Access will be nationwide.
How long it's going to take you to ramp that up? Marci it is nationwide.
Let's be clear it's nationwide for all video-on-demand library all of that content and in certain ONO markets in addition to that you get a live linear feed of what you're watching on the air.
So just the live linear it's in 1/3 of the country but the rest of it video-on-demand you can watch the next day of the shows for the subscription fee or our vast library you can get for that $5.99 a month today not tomorrow today.
So that is available.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm assuming you're going to add the live feed.
And the 1/3 will expand as we sign up more and more affiliates to join us.
So hopefully by next year we have most of the country with the live feed but as Joe said if you want to watch any episode of NCIS or The Good Wife or Madam Secretary you can get that today in any part of the country.
Clearly you're not a subscriber yet Marci but we'll give you a free week to turn you on to the service so you can test it.
Would you like us give credit card right now? We'll take it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I'd love to.
I can't wait.
And then just a bigger-picture question.
There seems to be less of an appetite for off-network syndication.
All the networks cable networks that were buying this programming are focused on originals and there seems to be a fear in the marketplace that international syndication and SVOD is not going to offset declines in traditional syndication.
Can you speak to that? Well judging from the numbers that we're seeing that we get between SVOD and all the various deals that we are getting from a variety of sources we're not worried.
The numbers we're selling our new product for are higher than what the old numbers are.
And by the way some of the cable networks that complain they say they're not buying it we're not quite seeing it.
The Big Bang Theory is still the highest-rated show on Turner and that's an off-network.
But with all the variety of places that you can now sell your programming the cable nets just become one small piece of it.
And the numbers now for every single of our shows are more than they were when maybe cable syndication was a bigger part of it.
So there's no fear on our part that we're going to be able to make more money on these shows.
Great.
Thank you Marci and this concludes today's call.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Have a great evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the CBS Corporation Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Teleconference.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to the Executive Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings call.
Listening on the phone is Sumner Redstone our Executive Chairman and joining us for today's remarks are Leslie Moonves President and CEO; Joe Ianniello Chief Operating Officer.
Les and Joe will discuss the strategic and financial results of the company and then we will then open it up to questions.
Please note that during today's conference call the full year results are discussed on an adjusted basis and fourth quarter 2013 results are compared to adjusted unless otherwise specified.
Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information related to this call can be found on our earnings release or on our website.
Also statements on this conference call relating to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involves risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed in CBS Corporation's news releases and securities filings.
A webcast of this call and earnings release related to today's presentation can be found on the Investors section of our website at cbscorporation.com.
With that it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Les.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
I'd like to start by saying how saddened we are by the sudden passing of Bob Simon an important member of the CBS News family and the entire CBS organization.
Our thoughts with his family as we continue to remember and celebrate his amazing legacy of courage and professionalism.
Now we will turn to the task at hand reporting our fourth quarter earnings to you.
It is been an excellent quarter and an excellent year.
We are very pleased to tell you that CBS kept off 2014 with another record quarter.
Revenue of $3.7 billion was up 3% and was our best performance of the year and EPS of $0.77 was up 8%.
We've now grown EPS for 20 consecutive quarter that's five straight years of consistent increases.
As we look ahead to 2015 and into 2016 we see terrific opportunities coming our way.
Yes retransmission consent and reverse compensation continue to grow rapidly and yes since the end of last year the pacing of broadcast advertising has been building week in and week out but in addition to that digital distribution service are allowing us to build new and younger audiences all of which we are beginning to monetize.
This is happening in the US and it's happening overseas.
New market places for companies that create the best content are opening up like never before.
Here are just a few recent developments.
First we are coming off the year which we launched five new owned hit across CBS the CBW and Showtime this will result in yet another wave of monetization opportunities down the road.
Next we began a new significant long-term deal with Bell Media in Canada that introduces Showtime as a standalone service outside of the US for the very first time.
We are confident this agreement will lead to a new wave of international licensing revenue for our cable segment.
In addition our new streaming services CBS All Access and CBSN have both exceeded our expectations representing additives ways for us to get paid for our existing content.
At the same time out-of-home rights have become more valuable and are now being negotiated with our MVPD partners.
Plus we're just beginning to license the domestic screening rights for our non-serialized current hit shows like CSI.
These new deals represent an extension of our evolving strategy in terms of how we monetize our content.
We have hundreds and hundreds of episodes ready to go.
So you can imagine how lucrative this will be.
Each of these new developments that I just mentioned demonstrates the power of owning and creating the best premium content.
This is our focus and it will remain so as we do this returning value to our shareholders is also a top priority.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased $800 million of our stock which is double what we did in the third quarter and here in the first quarter we will repurchase $1 billion worth of stock taking advantage of what we see as a very attractive share price.
So that's $1.8 billion of share repurchases in six months.
Clearly our commitment to our shareholders is stronger than ever.
Now I'm going to give you some highlights about each of our business segment starting with entertainment and then I'll turn it over to Joe to tell you more about our performance before we take our questions.
Once again and you're right I never get tired of saying this the CBS Television Network is the most watched network in America and now by more than 2 million viewers per week.
In fact this May we will end the season as the number one network in viewers and 25 to 54 and despite not having the Super Bowl this year we are very much in the running for the 18 to 49 crown as well.
With 15 of the top 20 scripted series.
The ones that really matter in syndication.
CBS's total is three times all of the other networks combined.
Something else that often gets overlooked or misreported is that we have a very balanced schedule of new and established hits.
Consider this off the 15 series in the top 20 that I just mentioned six have been on the air 3 years or less five have been on between 4 years and 6 years and four have been on 7 years or more representing some of the most valuable content franchises we own because of that stability of our schedule we're able to use established hits to launch new content franchises.
We put Madam Secretary on between 60 minutes and The Good Wife and hit a home run.
We used the number one series NCIS as they're leading for the new NCIS: New Orleans and it's become televisions number one new series and the most watched freshmen drama or comedy in 10 years.
And with Thursday Night Football in our schedule we were able to move the number one comedy Big Bang Theory from Thursdays to Mondays of the start of the season which provided a terrific leading to launch the very successful Scorpion.
All three of these new series are top 10 scripted shows and we own 100% of each of them there is more to come.
Next month we'll be launching our latest CSI Spinoff CSI: Cyber starring Golden Globes winner and Academy Award nominee Patricia Arquette.
CSI: Cyber explores the world of internet crime which is one of most relevant topics out there right now.
Then in May we'll announce a new schedule that we'll once again build off our number one line up and reload our content pipeline.
There won't be a lot of turnover on our schedule but the new shows we do open will be in protected time period once again giving them an excellent chances at success just as we did last year.
Plus this year we will launch the Late Late show with James Corden in March and the Late Show with Steven Colbert in September.
We will own these shows for the first time which will allow us to monetize late night in all sorts of new ways on a variety of emerging platforms.
We will also have the return of Thursday Night Football which means next year we will have the most powerful NFL schedule anyone has ever had culminating with CBS Broadcast of Super Bowl 50 by the way I'd like to congratulate NBC on achieving the highest rated TV event in history with Super Bowl 49.
It's certainly won't hurt our sales for next year $5 million to $6 million for a 30-second spot sounds pretty good to me.
Meanwhile our advertising picture is being helped by a broadcast marketplace that is been steadily improving week after week since the end of the first quarter.
Given that we're the number one network and that broadcast content has been strong overall we're not quite seeing the same headwinds as base the cable.
As we approach the upfront the timing of this couldn't be better.
I'm not making any predictions because we're just in February but I feel very confident that we will once again lead the marketplace in pricing and volume and we will also see more advances towards the currency that better represents how people are watching our shows.
This means that the C7 deals will be the most common currency and there will also be deals that are longer than C7.
It means the beginning of significant revenue from dynamic ad insertion.
The fact is we're making it easier and easier for viewers to watch our shows on their own timetable and it's paying off.
On Monday we announced that in the most recent week available Elementary added more viewers in 7-day playback than any other show on television.
It went from 8 million viewers live to nearly 13 million viewers when all 7 days were counted.
That's about 4.5 million incremental viewers representing a lot of revenue.
By the way six of the top 10 shows that benefited the most from 7-day playback were on CBS.
We're constantly finding new ways to offer this delayed viewers to advertisers and as we do we should see tremendous upside ahead.
Technology is also helping our base business in streaming whereas I mention we struck a significant deal to license CSI into domestic SVOD for the first time.
Those of you who have followed us know that we have taken a strategically conservative approach to streaming past seasons of current shows.
Well we're seeing more and more that streaming the right shows brings new audiences into the mix and then brings those viewers to the screen for the latest episodes and those viewers are often younger and more affluent because our library of current hits is so extensive we have a lot of upside here.
CSI is already a multibillion franchise and new screening deals will only add to that.
Going forward we have the whole NCIS catalogue in our arsenal as well to sell and discussions are already underway to license that show later this year.
We are also reaching a new audience for our existing program through our OTT streaming service CBS All Access.
The average age of All Access viewers is considerably younger than network television and as I said subscription is selling faster than we projected including the biggest surge of signups we've had yet surrounding the Grammies this past Sunday.
With lots of live events on CBS schedule throughout the year and access to more in seasoned CBS Shows than anywhere else we will continue to grow subs in the quarter ahead.
Plus All Access is facilitating new discussions and our retrans and reverse comp negotiations.
This includes MVPD's who are increasingly seeking out-of-home rights from us.
It also includes discussions that are well underway with our affiliates who are looking to join our O&amp;O's and take part in this additional revenue stream from All Access.
Our online news services CBSN is off to a terrific start as well and there have been some very interesting developments.
First while the service is popular on mobile and desktop platform its largest viewership comes from internet connected TVs such as Roku where CBSN has been the number one news outlet.
We are seeing the most viewers doing breaking news events which has led to three times as many people watching the live stream versus On Demand overall CBS N is in its early stages but we are very confident we've created a vital new companion to our network news operations at virtually cost.
Before we move to cable I want to note the CW is also having a great season is growing from last year in every single one of the demographics.
We are especially proud that Jane the Virgin received Golden Globe nominations for Best Comedy and Best Actress in a Comedy.
This CW's first Golden Globe nominations ever.
This was followed by the show star Gina Rodriguez going onto to win the award for best actress in a comedy.
That same night the Golden Globe for Best Actress in the Drama Series and the Best Drama Series went to The Affair on Showtime another one of the own hits that we launched last year.
Just as we've done it the CBS Television we are driving our show time results by adding more owned original programming and monetizing it across platforms.
The most significant deal in this regard is our new agreement with Bell Media one of the biggest media companies in Canada the licensed Showtime.
We sold individual Showtime series internationally many times before but this is the first time the entire Showtime brand is being monetized in this way.
And while the deal is financially important in its own right what's really is encouraging is what is represents going forward.
It shows our ability to monetize Showtime as a full network service in many other markets overseas.
By the way the reason we have been able to develop this new revenue stream is because we now own virtually our entire Showtime schedule.
In publishing we are also pleased with the hits that Simon &amp; Schuster is creating.
During the quarter the novel All the Light We Cannot See by Anthony Doerr was on more best of 2014 list than any other book.
Thanks to these end of year accolades sales past 1 million copies in 2014 and have provided a boost here in the first quarter.
In addition following the success of CBS and Simon &amp; Schuster's collaboration on Under the Dome we are now looking forward to the Dovekeepers in April this CBS mini-series will be based Alice Hoffman's novel and once again we own it 100%.
In our local broadcasting segment we are able to achieve strong growth with the help of political spending.
This was particularly true at our TV stations which also benefited from healthy gains in NFL sales and retrans.
Looking ahead the 2016 Presidential Election is right around the corner and thank god The Ranker has already begun.
Radio continues also to be profitable.
Along with our TV stations our local segment turned in a 40% margin for the company and we continue to build new audiences in radio by extending our big market content into the digital world.
For example last month we launched the podcasting platform called Play.it.
This new platform features content from CBS Radio personality CBS News CBS Sports Simon &amp; Schuster and even outside partners.
Plus we built an ad network that allows sponsor to buy across multiple podcast.
So from network to cable television to first-run syndication.
From publishing to our local business and certainly at CBS Interactive we are constantly monetizing our content in new ways that are benefiting our shareholders.
Quarter after quarter year-after-year we've seen how this high margin revenue streams can boost the solid performance of our based resistance and the good news is that technological innovation continues to work in our favour.
This includes the advents of the Over the Top services the explosion of digital distribution internationally and the new ways we are just beginning to profit from advertising on delayed viewing platforms.
In addition CBS has never been in a stronger position than we are right now as we progress towards $2 billion in retrans and reverse comp revenue.
From Verizon to Time Warner cable to Cox to Dish to all of our affiliate deals.
We have proven time and time again that distributors can't live without CBS.
This true for large bundles and small and we don't need any other assets to get these deals done on the best possible terms.
The power of our own content drives our success both in negotiations and from an operating perspective as well.
So there is no company in a better position to gain from the dynamic shifting market place than CBS and as we do we remain focused on investing in the best content controlling cost enhancing our extremely strong financial position and returning value to our shareholders and with that I'll turn it over to Joe.
Thanks Les and good afternoon everyone.
Today I'm going to give some more details about our fourth quarter results and discuss what we see ahead in Q1 but first I'd like to talk a little more generally about our financial performance and strategy.
We grew revenue and EPS in the fourth quarter even as we continue to invest in the future of our company as a content machine.
In fact Q4 was our best ever fourth quarter for EPS.
Despite foreign exchange losses that amounted to $0.03 per share and full year EPS also hit a new high and was our fifth straight year of steady increases.
It's a true testament to the way we are executing on our strategy of owning premium content and monetizing around the world on a growing array of platforms.
As less said we've recently created five new hits series across our television and cable network.
Meanwhile technology is evolving in such a way that we are selling our own hits more effectively than ever.
New players are constantly coming in to the mix both domestically and around the world and they're bringing more opportunities our way.
In fact during 2014 we generated more international SVOD revenue by selling to local streaming providers in overseas markets than we did from the two biggest US based SVOD players combined.
So the cycle for our must have content will continue which in turn will drive our results in the years ahead.
At the same time we are returning value to shareholders like never before.
As you've heard we repurchased $800 million of our stock in the fourth quarter and we're on track to spend another $1 billion on share buybacks here in Q1.
Just to give you some perspective over the last two years we've retired 151 million shares of our stock which includes 106 million shares that we repurchased for $5.8 billion in cash and another 45 million that we retired in connection with the outdoor split off that represents 24% of our share base and we still have the way to go.
Once we hit the $1 billion in share buybacks in Q1.
We'll have $3.8 billion still remaining on our current authorized program and you can be sure that we will continue to be very aggressive and opportunistic in our buybacks going forward.
Now let me get into some more detail about our fourth quarter results.
Revenue was up 3% to $3.7 billion during the quarter.
Advertising grew 4% driven by Thursday Night Football and political spending at our local stations and network advertising was up 2%.
Affiliate and subscription fees grew 11% demonstrating the continue impact of our new retrans and reverse comp deals as well as further growth in our cable network.
Content licensing and distribution was down 3% as you know this revenue stream can fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter depending on when shows are made available.
On a full year basis content licensing and distribution came in at $4 billion matching a very strong year in 2013.
OIBDA was down $30 million to $778 million during the quarter because of our higher investment in programming primarily for sports rights and EPS was up 8% to $0.77.
As I mentioned we were able to achieve this despite the FX headwinds during the quarter and for the full year EPS was up 6% to an all-time high of $2.96.
Now let's turn to our operating segment.
Entertainment revenue in the fourth quarter grew 2% to $2.3 billion.
Driven by increases in ad spending particularly from Thursday Night Football as well as higher affiliate and subscription fee revenue.
Entertainment OIBDA declined to $287 million during the quarter again due to our higher investment in sport rights.
In Cable fourth quarter revenue up $499 million was up 5%.
The increase demonstrates the continued success of our strategy of owning more Showtime original series which is leading higher licensing fees and increases in rates from affiliates.
At the same time the international appetite for Showtime branded content is a growing opportunity.
As evidenced by our new deal in Canada.
Cable OIBDA of $247 million was up 24% and our Cable OIBDA margin expanded 8 points to 49% a direct result of the growth of our high margin syndication revenue as I before we look at our margins on a 12-month basis so for the year our Cable OIBDA margin expanded more than 2 points to a very strong 46%.
Turning to publishing fourth quarter revenue came in at $215 million down $10 million from 2013 when we had several strong Duck Dynasty titles.
In addition to All the Light We Cannot See best-selling titles for this year's fourth quarter include Revival by Steven King and MONEY Master the Game by Tony Robbins.
Publishing OIBDA was $27 million also down $10 million from 2013 and for the year our publishing OIBDA margin was a steady 14%.
In local broadcasting fourth quarter revenue was 9% to $785 million.
The increase was driven by top higher advertising from political and Thursday Night Football as well as growth in retrans.
TV stations were up 15% and radio was up 2% other strong advertising categories during the quarter included travelling leisure for TV and order when healthcare for radio.
Local broadcasting OIBDA grew 19% to $313 million and the OIBDA margins expanded 3 points to 40%.
Turning to free cash flow in our balance sheet free cash flow came in at $880 million compared to $280 million in Q4 2013.
A result of the timing of payment for our new NFL contracts which we made earlier in the year.
We ended 2014 with $428 million of cash on hand and as of December 31 our gross debt-to-OIBDA ratio was just under 2.2 times.
As we've said before we are comfortable raising our target ratio to 2.5 times.
Also in January we issued $1.2 billion in senior notes and we used the majority of these proceeds for stock repurchases here in Q1.
Now let me tell you what we see ahead in the first quarter.
Network advertising continues to build off of Q4 levels and scatter pricing is up high single digits over the upfront.
TV stations are pacing to be up low single digits in particular we're seeing strength from the healthcare category as well as our big event programming including the Grammy's the Academy of Country Music Awards and the NCWA Men's Basketball Championships.
Meanwhile radio is also patient to up low single digits.
Retrans and reverse comp will continue to ramp up we have about 17% of our TV stations footprint set to expire later this year and 20% on the reverse comp side.
This 20% is in addition to the 25% of our affiliate footprint that we just reset at the end of 2014.
Every new deal we do raises the watermark to a higher level and we look forward to continuing to obtain fair market value for our content as we work towards our goal of achieving or exceeding $2 billion in annual revenue by 2020.
At the same time we will remain vigilant on all cost as we always do.
On a side note now that we no longer have the outdoor advertising business in our portfolio.
The GAAP between the run rate of capital spending and depreciation expense has narrowed significantly.
So starting in the first quarter of 2015 we will be using operating income as a key metric instead of OIBDA for both our business segments and our company as a whole.
So in summary the media landscape continues to change in new and exciting ways but one constant holds true.
Our strategy of creating and owning of premium must have content will always come out on top.
From the CBS Television Network to the CW to first-run syndication to Showtime we are producing critically acclaimed and highly rated programming that's in great demand around the world.
This leading to an increasing number of new growth opportunities many of which we are just beginning to realize.
So we feel very good about the direction we are headed and we look forward to talking to you all on our next call.
So with that Gwen let’s open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] we will go first to Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley I've two questions.
Les can you talk about the Dish renewals whether you're able to set another high watermark and if you got paid for the out-of-home rights and what's your perspective on the PSS outlook? Since I know you feel very confident in CBS position in sort of the new digital environment we are working towards and then I have a follow-up? The Dish deal we don't go into detail about it but as we've said every deal that we've made is higher than the next deal.
We are very happy without the deal ended up we are sorry we had to go dark for half hour during that negotiations but we were very pleased and the out-of-home rights there is a path to negotiate for them.
There is an opening to do it it's not completed yet and as you all know and every one of these MVPD deals that we do the out-of-home rights is sort of separate negotiation and as Charlie goes ahead with some of his OTT offerings there is a path for us to discuss something they have not been done so far.
Regarding the spectrum obviously it's something that we are looking at and we are interested in it.
Yes that was my follow-up which is on the broadcast incentive auction now that we've had these big numbers out AWS 3 how are you thinking about potentially looking at that as an opportunity for you guys it seems like it could be a $2 billion opportunity potentially? Yes Ben its Joe.
I'll take that look obviously we kept a close eye on the AWS 3 auction that they had and last week I'm sure you and others saw the updated Greenhill report.
So we have lot of stations in our group if we just looked at the four independence these are the non-CBS or the CW's.
We have one in New York LA Dallas and Boston.
If I just looked at those median values not the maximum value in that Greenhill report.
I mean that totals $2 billion for those four market.
So obviously this is a hidden asset within our portfolio.
We are looking at it closely.
I mean the financial term I would get it to think about it as a free call option.
So we are studying it and we'll as we learn more about the auction and the process we'll evolve our strategy.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Jessica Reif Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch I've question for Les.
You know with all the major changes that have gone in this industry there could be some interesting combination for CBS and certainly there is been tons of speculation about what may or may not happen with the company could you give us your thoughts on how CBS may or may not participate in consolidation? Yes thanks Jessica.
Look obviously there is been a ton of noise out there on CNBC and various magazines and newspapers.
Our company right now is so strong some of those who suggest the combination say I'll give you more clout as the distributors potentially come together.
We think we have quite a bit of clout you know in every negotiation that we've done be it Time Warner Cable or Dish or whatever when you walk in the door with the NFL with the number one comedy in Big Bang the number one drama NCIS the NCAA Basketball Tournament we feel pretty good about ourselves as a company.
There is a lot of noise and people say oh! This and that some of it with mistaken facts frankly.
Look at the end of the day our board of directors is only going to do what's good for the shareholder.
In other words we're - we feel good about ourselves.
We think our stock price is going to go up considerably over the next few years obviously and the next few months and we're going to take all that into consideration and as we go forward but as I said we're feeling pretty strong about ourselves and don't need any partners.
Fine.
Just a completely separate question but have you as you know HBO said their OTT service is coming later on the year have you can you give us any thoughts on how you're thinking about Showtime? Yes we're obviously looking it at Showtime and the potential for that and there are various permutations that we are working at and we'll probably share as many details with you as HBO did which is not many at all.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to David Bank with RBC Capital Markets Couple of sort of penetration question here.
Your cable network kind of extraordinary margins way beyond what we were thinking.
Can you give us some colour with respect to the key drivers was it the deal in Canada was it a particular content syndication deal if so what shows? And as follow-up to your comments on the CSI stuff Les what platform did you sell it into and what's the recognition of revenue timing with they're like 300 episodes of this thing even with third cycle type pricing.
These are some should be some pretty big numbers.
So can you give as a little more colour around it? Thanks.
David Joe.
I'll take the first one for the cable.
What's driving that obviously is timing of theoretical releases quarter-over-quarter.
So obviously we have benefitted from that and you're also seeing the benefit of owning more shows and so yes I mean every deal we do internationally and domestically certainly again underscores the value of owning content so we definitely benefitted from that but I think again that's why we always say look at the margin on a full year basis and I steer you to the 46% margin as oppose to the 49% margin.
Yes David regarding CSI.
We haven't yet announced it there is a deal in place.
It will be announced in not too distant future.
You're right it is north of 300 episodes.
So the good news is as we look towards the future that will be accounted.
In addition we have not yet sold NCIS into streaming that's also hundreds and hundreds of lucrative episodes.
So the future for these two franchises which have not yet been introduced into the streaming world is going to be pretty tremendous throughout the rest of 2015 and beyond.
So we are very excited about it and stay tuned for information in the not too distant future.
Okay thank you.
And we'll go next to Michael Morris with Guggenheim Securities Couple questions.
First our network ads Joe you mentioned scatter up high single-digit versus the upfront in the first quarter.
Can you talk a little bit whether based on what you can see now whether you think that will lead to growth at the network in the first quarter or what the kind of swing factors could be there that you're looking at? And then second of all on the All Access product I think that your NFL content is the biggest most notable that's not on that.
Where are you in the process of making that available on the product? And based on the rights that you have with the NFL does it matter whether the product is your own standalone over the top or whether it's a partnership through an MVPD similar to the Sling product whether or not you can make it available.
Thanks.
Yes I'll answer the NFL question and let Joe answer the other question.
Obviously NFL is not part of the All Access package.
We are talking about what potential content we can use and obviously with the NFL we have a relationship with Thursdays and Sundays so it will be an ongoing situation.
Right now our situation with All Access is obviously it all goes to us.
As we negotiate with our affiliates.
A piece of that will go to them which will obviously expand the use of it and I imagine discussion would be if there was any other platform that became part of it there would be a potential share on that but at the moment that is not part of the game.
Hi Mike.
It's Joe.
On the network scatter so yes scatter again pricing up high single digits.
I mean we'll see where we end the quarter.
What I'll just tell you did we expect it to grow? The answers is yes we do have one less Playoff game in Q1 of 2015 for the NFL under the new contract and it kind of rotates we'll get it back in 2016 so it goes in and out.
So that's the only kind of really big true comp on a national basis that will affect the underlying advertising growth rate but we do expect it to grow.
Just last to be clear your ability to show the NFL content on a non-traditional product is there a difference whether it's a CBS driven product like your All Access versus let's say a product like the Sling over the top service if your major content available through something like Sling because this is an MVPD would your rights allow you to show that NFL content? Mike its Joe.
Let me just give you the detail to that one.
The answer is yes.
Like in the Sony OTT deal or in a Dish OTT offering.
The NFL is part of the CBS offering that we negotiate with those carriers and we do have those rights this is slightly different and that's why Les said those negotiations are ongoing.
Great thanks lot guys.
And we'll go next to David Miller with Topeka Capital Market Les I'm just curious about what your vision is say 2 years 3 years 5 years down the road for the production studio the actual CBS TV production studio.
I believe you said 90 days ago or so that you finally sold a show a third party network.
So I mean are you guys taking sort of a game theory approach to this where say 2 years 3 years 4 years down the road you have kind of like one-third series you buy from other parties one-third series you manufacture if you will and sell to other parties and then the other third you kind of keep for yourselves or is not that neat and clean? What's in your head with regard to that CBS Production Studio? Yes it is not that neat and clean.
Obviously in terms of the CBS Television Network we do have very successful shows from outside studios and we will continue to do that Big Bang Theory is a Warner Brothers show and it's making us a lot of money and making Warner Brothers a lot of money and that will always be the case where there is room for top talent at other studios.
By the same token our production load as we mentioned.
With CBS the CW Showtime first-run syndication we're producing north of 30 shows that we own.
At this point in time we have development all over the place with other broadcast networks with other cable networks and with MVPD's.
So our attitude basically is we're going to be in business with everybody.
Ownership becomes more and more important back-end is becoming as important as the front end.
So when we look down the road as we mentioned owning these five shows is going to pay for many many years to come.
Okay thank you very much.
And we'll go next to Alexia Quadrani with JP Morgan I'm sort of on the same line so the question of content on the timing for content sales.
Maybe it’s rule it's down 4 years to 5 years out you're going to syndication you've got some great shows obviously they're very young as you mentioned.
I guess how should we think about the content sale pipeline for the maybe 6-year or 17 now that these shows are getting sold in this syndication and on much shorter timeframe and then I'll follow-up thanks.
Alexia it's Joe.
Here's what we can about that that's why we always say you know the timing of that you can fluctuate but I think the true test if you look at the pipeline and you just said there is more we're constantly reloading it but I'm going to go through a quick list of shows that haven't gone through syndication yet so whether it goes 16 17 15 you know Elementary Madam Secretary Scorpion NCIS: New Orleans Beauty and the Beast Jane the Virgin Rain The Affair Penny Dreadful Ray Donovan Masters of Sex House of Lies Nurse Jackie.
So you see kind of my point is that we have bunch of stuff that we are producing that hasn't begun to go through the revenue cycle yet.
Okay that is very helpful and then also a follow-up on your commentary about the very strong demand for international SVOD I think in 2014 I guess the question is will that grow year-over-year in 2015 and I guess SVOD in general both domestic and international just total SVOD you'd see those revenues up in 2015.
Yes again internationally again is I think why we gave that data point we really found it really telling in that we focused obviously most of our time in the US opportunity but when we look abroad the number that the completion that's there from existing players in new entrants with again since we own this content it really opens up whole new marketplace for us that we're really just beginning to tap.
So I think we certainly expect our international guides know their budget so they're certainly for significantly more revenue than they generated in 2014.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Anthony DiClemente with Nomura I've one for Joe and one for Les.
Joe on the increases that you guys are seeing on retrans and the retrans renewals.
As we look out to the first quarter 2015 in 2015 I would think that the OIBDA dollars from the retrans growth would be more incremental to the model as oppose to 2014 where lot of that incremental growth was subsumed by or more than subsumed by the program it cost a uplift from sports and the NFL so are we thinking about that correctly am I thinking about that correctly or are there other offsets within the entertainment segment in 2015 perhaps in the licensing side that you would call out that could observe upside from those retrans growth dollars.
No I think Anthony let me just stop you there.
I think yes that's true.
I think obviously we had a step up in our new NFL contract as well as Thursday Night Football so that's kind of a new base when if you're comparing 2014 versus 2015 and obviously all the incremental retrans dollar's fall to the bottom line.
So that's how we manage the cash flow and I would say again later this year we have two more deals with pretty big MVPD's and we expect to be successful with that and that will build into 2016.
And on the reverse comp side is really again be bigger growth rate because again just from the timing of when those deals expire.
So as we look through 2015 2016 and even into 2017 that continues to ramp.
So we're clearly not at the full run rate.
I mean we gave you $2 billion in 20 we gave you a $1 billion by 17 so you can understand the track we're on of growth.
Thanks and just one for Les if I may Les? Yes.
When you look out there at ad demand and the ad demand landscape a competition for ad budgets and you look at what Facebook is doing you know they're dramatically growing the amount of video on the platform they're merging it with targeting the ability to buy impressions using reaching frequency those are things that Jo Ann Ross and your ad sell team already do that.
You know they're making a pitch to advertisers that the ROI of digital is superior to the ROI of broadcast TV and so I just wonder what are you and your ad sells team doing to talk to ad buyers to talk to agencies to play decent here? You know what number one let me state that we are in the digital business in a very very big way as well.
So the increase to the digital advertising also affect us and once again the network group and the digital group are working very closely together so these increases that Facebook is talking about in terms of video digital we are getting the benefit of that.
You know and I think what they have said is they are taking away from television not necessarily from broadcast and there is the big distinction that needs to be made broadcasting is the big tent.
We are not competing directly with digital.
I think some of what you're hearing is the noise is about basic cable.
The smaller basic cable or the more niche basic cable networks are competing for those digital ad dollars but to get the impressions that we're able to get you talk to the big advertisers.
They can't live without us.
If General Motors wants to launch a new product they want 20 million people watching NCIS rather than going on YouTube it's not to say they won't buy YouTube later on but the reason we're seeing increases in our pricing right now and every year the upfront is up from where it was before and generally scatter is up before is network television can't be replaced you can't do without those huge numbers.
Look NBC got $4.5 million for a 30-second spot in the Super Bowl we're going to get north of $5 million those aren't dollars going to digital.
They realize they want to get to a 120 million people at once and that's why broadcast will always be solid.
Thanks Les.
We'll take our next question from Doug Mitchelson with UBS I wanted to ask about the upfront from Les I think you just kicked it off in this call by offering Super Bowl inventory for $6 million spot.
Exactly are you interested Doug? We've got a few available right now but they're going fast.
I'll check with the ad guys at [indiscernible].
I think it's always interesting time of year and you have your finger on the pulse so what's actually happening in the marketplace.
How many pilots do you think you will shoot this year and can you remind us what you did last year? How is the fight for talent a lot of folks ramping their original efforts and do you see that in cost and availability of talent and how many holds do you have in your schedule and what type of shows are you targeting any of that would be helpful? And the good news is I said during the call is our schedule is really very very solid.
There are very few holds we are probably doing three or four or less pilots this year.
My guess is will be down to eight comedies and eight or nine dramas right now and how many shows we launched this year we only launched four new shows in the fall and as I said earlier they're able to be launched in different places.
Are there more is there more competition out there probably because everybody is doing original dramas and comedies but that has never stopped us or we're not having trouble finding the kind of talent that we want and you know what our batting average in terms of back-end syndication is so much higher than anybody else's.
Cable other broadcasters certainly the MVPD players that coming to see to CBS is the story is yes it's tougher to get on the air but if you're on the air your chances of success will be lot greater.
So it's a very interesting year but I think we're going to have more than enough to put it in our schedule.
If I could just follow-up with Joe.
I mean Joe when you think about shows that you and Les are putting up on the board.
Do you start to get visibility around now as to what production cost for next season might start to look like when you think about sort of older shows that might be expensive that you're taking off versus newer shows? Is there any kind of visibility you're starting to get around that? Yes sure.
I mean that's all part of that process Doug.
When we go through that we're obviously looking at a show cost X right now and its eight years versus you know Y in its first year that we own it.
So we go through all of that calculation as we do it but obviously as Les said the best show will always get on the air but it's a definitely part of the process.
But unless Doug you should know that Two and Half Men after 12 years is going off the air.
It's announced.
So that's a pretty high ticket item you may have heard about Charlie Sheen's salary and then Ashton Kutcher's salary so by definition maybe the most expensive half hour in our schedule is coming off.
You know and so as the result I fully expect our cost for next season for 2015 2016 to be less than they're for this season.
Mentalist is going off the air as well which is an older show but so production cost wise we're in very good shape.
Right.
Thank you both very much.
And we'll go next to John Janedis with Jefferies Les I think the Bell Media deal initially flew into the radar and so I wanted to ask are you going to recognize revenue on an upfront licensing and then on a success based basis and to clarify how replicable is it across geographies I don't know if there are any potential issues with existing rights? Thanks Joe why don't you talk about how we're recognizing and then I'll talk about for the second.
You know for the brand John.
It's recognized over the term of the agreement you're going we're not going to disclose the actual term but I'll tell you it's a long-term agreement.
So for the brand value for the trademark it's a recognized and then the other part.
Think about it more as an output deal as we produce more and more shows for them.
They'll buy those shows at an agreed upon price.
So again it really speaks to the value that we were able to achieve hits type of deal to the quality of the content on Showtime.
So yes I think we can replicate this obviously timing of rights have to line up Canada is no different than other countries.
Yes I mean we talked about ownership of the shows and how much more of the product we own than even a few years ago.
When the thought of an international channel an international showtime channel would have been impossible because the shows were all owned by other companies now it's a very different story as Joe mentioned the timing of these rights are important but this is potentially a very revolutionary deal for Showtime as it looks to expand throughout the world.
And that hits in later in 2015 or in 2016? It starts 2015 you know it will start right in 2015 and again it will ramp as the shows go they're launching their SVOD service I believe later in the year.
So John if I was thinking about this.
I was thinking about this kind of building into end of 2015 2016 2017 and beyond but because again of the output nature and the SVOD service that Bells is launching.
Great.
Thank you very much.
We'll go next to Laura Martin with Needham &amp; Company I'm really curious about this have you guys ever thought about aggregating that awesomely deep library and offering it to consumers direct and sort of a competitive product to Netflix or is it the money coming out this SVOD players just so much greater in cash flow strains than doing it yourself and building a global footprint out of that library of yours? Laura actually you know what All Access is basically split into three parts.
One is the live feed where in the market set it's in which will expand two is catch up on existing shows that are on the air and the third part is a big part of our vast library.
So right now for $599 a month you can get all the Star Treks and all the Mission Impossibles and all the I love Lucy's and all the Cheers that you may want.
So we are that is once again it is some of it it is syndicated out but it's not exclusive but you will find that on All Access.
So we agree with you it's a very good idea.
And those rights are also sold non-exclusively to Amazon and Netflix right? That's right.
That's correct.
So my other question was on dynamic ad insertion.
I'm so happy this is finally coming and what I'm really interested in it do you think dynamic ad insertion will be a material revenue driver in 2015 or do you think that has to take to 2 years or 3 years to become a meaningful upside? Laura its Joe.
I would say look it certainly not going to be fully realized.
It has a lot - it's not going to be realize its full potential there but if you just think about the consumption and you applied some sort of average CPM you could see you could get hundreds of millions of dollars and you could see why we are excited about it.
Obviously when any market place develops you don't reach the full capacity kind of in year one year two.
So I do think there is a natural ramp here but again the good news is that the consumption is there we can prove it we have the data.
So the monetisation will follow.
Very helpful thanks.
And we'll go next to Jim Goss with Barrington Research I've got a couple also first regarding I was wondering if there is any trend you can talk about in terms of the international sale concurrent with initial program release and whether that dollar value is increasing as it is with the film industry.
Yes the answer is yes.
The good news is the international marketplace and we referred to the growth in competition with MVPD's and SVOD providers and all the normal people.
The numbers are going up the numbers when we first launch a show as soon as we announced it it's on our schedule our international sales team launches it and sells it and it basically goes on concurrently with our fall schedule and those numbers rare going up.
There is a certain range for CBS shows there are certain shows we have as part of output deals in certain territories but the CW shows are going up the Showtime shows are going up.
So the market place is stronger and stronger every year.
Okay also I've been amazed in terms of the role of schedule as new as C7 looms and new distribution platform.
So I'm wondering if you could talk about how important it is and whether that's changing that all and whether it's the share of doing an original day in time? I mean the number is over 70% who watched the show live day and time.
So as I talked about before when you take a show like Madam Secretary which clearly is an upscale show it's an intelligent show putting that show after 60 minutes and before The Good Wife makes great sense and frankly even though this is the age of everybody saying people want their shows when they want it scheduling still matters having the strength of schedule that we have really matters.
The reason Thursday night was helpful in other ways.
When we did our research on Scorpion we said it's the perfect companion for The Big Bang Theory.
The Big Bang is about five nerds who do comedy.
Scorpions is about five nerds who do action adventure and they are very very compatible shows.
So we put them both on Monday night and Scorpion succeeded a great deal because we got the Big Bang people to watch Scorpion.
Obviously NCIS: New Orleans the people who NCIS the idea is to keep them there.
So scheduling remains an important skill and the strength of schedule and launching new product remains very strong that 70% number will go down but still a major factor today.
Okay and lastly I was wondering about the importance of news right now in your schedule and in terms of the destabilization that might be occurring with NBC is there any change in landscape you might look at in that regard? No I'd rather not comment on the issue that NBC is having obviously both of our morning news shows and the evening news Scott Belli have gone up over the last few years and it's rising in a terrific way.
I love the product we're putting on it's very strong its 'very forceful and we're looking for the news division to continue to increase.
Thanks very much.
Good thank you Jim.
And Gwen let's take one final question please.
And we'll take our last question from Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo Thanks I've two.
First of all where are you in discussions with the affiliates for CBS All Access have you started those? Yes we have started them.
We are fairly far down the road and I'm optimistic that most of the affiliates will be on board I think they're very encouraged for the first time actually in this kind of service and over the top service they're going to share.
So we've received a very good reaction from our affiliates and we expect to be able to announce it in the not too distant future? Okay and then secondly with the renewed NFL Thursday night contract is there anything you're planning to do or anything incrementally you can do to help the margins with that contract next year? Just get better games.
We actually have terrible games.
We have of our eight games like ridiculous blowouts.
So we really believe if the schedule gets better and the games get a bit closer we will do a lot better and the margins will get better and we fully expect that to happen next year and once again having the Super Bowl having the extra playoff game that Joe mentioned that we will have next year it should be a lot of good NFL stuff for us.
Got it thank you.
Thank you Marci and this concludes today's call.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Have a great evening.
Thank you everyone that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the CBS Corporation First Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Teleconference.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to the Executive Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
Listening on the phone is Sumner Redstone our Executive Chairman; and joining us for today's remarks are Leslie Moonves President and CEO; and Joe Ianniello Chief Operating Officer.
Les and Joe will discuss the strategic and financial results of the company and then we will open it up for questions.
Please note that statements on this conference call relating to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed in CBS Corporation's news releases and securities filings.
A webcast of this call and the earnings release related to today's presentation can be found on the Investors section of our website at cbscorporation.com.
Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information related to this call can also be found in our earnings press release or on our website.
And with that it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Les.
Thank you Adam and good afternoon everybody and thanks for joining us.
I'm very pleased to tell you that CBS turned in a strong quarter yet again with EPS hitting $0.78 another record.
This marked the 21st consecutive quarter that we have grown our EPS while continuing to invest in our future.
Our consistent success is driven by the performance of our content and all the new ways we are monetizing it.
Certainly the world is changing.
New dynamics are popping up in our industry every single day.
As a result there are winners and losers.
The good news is that CBS will continue to be a winner in any scenario.
This is because we are wonderfully positioned.
We are clearly one of the best companies in all of media when it comes to benefiting from changing consumer habits.
No matter the size of the bundle or the method of distribution audiences simply can't live without our programming.
Verizon has a new bundle that we're part of.
Sony has a bundle that we're part of and you've all heard a talk about Apple as well and there will be more.
The good news for us is that in every bundle from what exists now to the new ones that will come along CBS will have to be a major part of every service that wants to succeed.
And in smaller bundles we will always get a bigger slice of the pie and that means higher fees for CBS.
At the same time we are proactively launching our own content platforms too including the very successful debut of CBS All Access and the upcoming Showtime over-the-top service which will be announced soon.
As we find new ways to monetize our content we are also increasing our output of quality programming across the company.
From the #1 television network where we're growing our viewers to the increasing demand for our shows in global syndication we are producing the content viewers want to see.
In fact across all platforms we have more viewers today than we did 11 years ago.
Our hit shows are performing particularly well with our SVOD partners who are finding predictably that great content is not so easy to produce.
You need a great explorer like Marco Polo to find the actual audiences that's watching some of these programs.
Our success means that we have the capacity to return tremendous value to our shareholders.
During the quarter as promised we repurchased $1 billion of our stock.
In fact since the start of 2014 we have retired more than $7 billion of our stock including this $2.7 billion we returned after we split off Outdoor.
All of these is in addition to the nearly $400 million we paid out in dividends.
Going forward you can be certain that we will be steadfast in our commitment to return value to shareholders.
So with a growing audience increased licensees and continued rapid growth in retrans and reverse comp we are poised to continue our remarkable run and deliver for our investors for years to come.
Now let's take a brief look at each of our businesses starting with entertainment.
Then I'll turn it over to Joe before we take your questions.
The CBS Television Network is just about to end a season as the most-watched network in the country.
It will be the seventh consecutive year and the 12th time in 13 years that we have achieved this feat.
We are #1 in viewers and once again we are up.
In fact we're up 5% from a year ago.
On average we're beating the competition by the very wide margin of 2.5 million viewers which is twice as large as last year's lead.
We're also #1 in 25 to 54 and in 18 to 49 where within 146 000 viewers of NBC in a year in which they had the Super Bowl.
Subtract the viewers that they gained from that game and we're #1 in 18 to 49 too.
And guess who has that game next year? CBS.
One of the big reason CBS is having such a strong finish to this season is the addition of Thursday night football.
Adding games this past fall tightened up our schedule and allowed us to save more original programming for later in the season when others had repeats.
Primetime NFL games also helped us to have one of the best batting averages ever.
In terms of launching new shows virtually all of our new shows this year have been hits including NCIS: New Orleans Madam Secretary Scorpion and CSI: Cyber.
And even better these are shows we own; meaning they will now be monetized for years to come.
We will capitalize on this opportunity again next season when we bring back Thursday Night Football with a significantly bigger and better schedule of games.
And as I've said we'll also have Super Bowl 50 in addition to our usual Sunday afternoon package.
So next year will be the biggest year any network has ever had with the NFL with Thursdays Sundays and the Super Bowl and we'll be the biggest full season viewer number anyone has had in a long long time.
CBS Sports and other marquee events also are performing extremely well for us.
Last month the final round of the Masters drew 14 million viewers up 26% from 2014 and the NCAA Men's Basketball Championship attracted more than 28 million viewers making it its highest-rated game in 18 years.
You heard from our partners at Time Warner about how the tournament drove revenue for them and needless to say this helped us as well.
CBS News also continues to build its audience during the first quarter.
All of our signature news programs were up including our flagship broadcast CBS Evening News with Scott Pelley and CBS This Morning.
In fact CBS This Morning is the only morning network newscast to add viewers this season and is now delivering its largest audience in more than 2 decades.
Plus we're attracting new and younger viewers to CBSN our digital streaming news network.
CBSN continues to exceed our expectation and expand into new platforms.
And once again we are doing this without the cost associated with the Cable News Network.
Also during the quarter we launched a whole new franchise in late night The Late Late Show with James Corden had a strong debut and the audience is building including the highest ratings yet earlier this week.
Creatively the show is way ahead of where we expected it to be.
That's having an especially good success online and in social media where it's #1 in its time period.
And because we own this show we're now able to monetize these views as well.
This represents a whole new opportunity for us in late night and it's one that will replicate on an even larger scale with the launch of The Late Show with Stephen Colbert in September.
Speaking of the late show this is a bittersweet moment for us.
David Letterman changed the game in late night television and we are very proud of all that he has accomplished.
So when he takes his final bow in 2 weeks it will truly be an end of an era.
But there is no better person to take up the mantle than Stephen Colbert and we are very much looking forward to his debut.
Also in broadcast television The CW is about to finish its most-watched season ever.
This includes the outstanding first season of our new owned series Jane the Virgin.
We look forward to building on The CW's momentum when we announce our new fall schedule next week.
So from prime time to sports to news to late night it's a great time to be heading into the upfront.
May 13 is right around the corner with scatter pricing up double digits.
We can't wait to get started.
CBS's ratings growth demographic strength and a complete and stable schedule are once again the pillars of what we will offer our agencies and clients.
And yes I'm very confident that we will lead the marketplace in pricing and volume.
And no I'm not giving a numeric projection other than to say no one will enter the upfront or the new fronts in a better position than CBS.
In addition C7 will be an even bigger part of our negotiations again this year as we move from C3 to C7 and to beyond 7 days there's a tremendous value that will continue to be unlocked.
Delayed viewing is allowing to significant innovation in terms of more data more analytics and more targeting capabilities and we are determined to get paid for all of it.
In fact as the marketplace continues to improve here in the second quarter I like what we're seeing in terms of the future of advertising with CBS.
There will always be new shiny objects but one spires look at every type of advertising that there is old and new they're realizing that nothing can compete with the effect of this at CBS.
Our Head of Research David Poltrack is proving this fact to a new program that documents a client's return on investment when advertising with CBS.
And as we just announced we are #1 in virtually every consumer group imaginable.
In addition to our improving outlook on advertising we are very excited by the growth we're seeing in our nonadvertising revenue streams.
Retrans and reverse comp continue to rise at a rapid clip on their way past $2 billion in 2020.
International revenue also grew strongly during the quarter and we continue to take advantage of the high demand for our content as new markets and platforms open up around the world.
And SVOD is now more competitive than ever in terms of buying premium content as evidenced by Hulu's recent spending spree which is another good sign for us going forward.
So we're selling SVOD in a big way but we're also selling traditional syndication in a big way as well.
We are now selling the same product many times and the overall pie is growing.
What remains very very clear is that the value of hit programming continues to drive the syndication marketplace on any platform.
In fact more than half of the top 50 highest-rated nonsports telecast on the USA network this season were episodes of NCIS and all of the top 50 highest-rated nonsports telecast on TBS were episodes of The Big Bang Theory.
As you know these are the #1 shows on CBS and in all of television in their respective genres.
The point is: Viewers will continue to watch the best content wherever they can find it.
Repeat viewing on cable and digital is bringing viewers back to new episodes on the network creating a virtuous cycle for those who have the best programming.
And once again let me remind you we have 50 -- 15 of the top 20 scripted programming on television.
As we grow our nonadvertising revenue we're also very encouraged by the early success of CBS All Access.
The majority of subscribers are signing on to watch past episodes of current CBS shows which is available nationwide.
Meanwhile the live linear feed of CBS has now expanded to more than 55% of the country through deals with a number of our affiliate groups including Hearst Gray Meredith and Raycom.
We expect the whole country to be able to stream CBS live before long.
With every subscriber we add we are raising the bar in terms of what CBS is worth in the marketplace.
We're also looking forward to rolling out our new Showtime over-the-top service in the coming months.
There are 10 million broadband-only homes that cannot currently subscribe to Showtime.
Going over-the-top will allow us to reach these consumers.
There are also nearly 100 million television homes that may want to subscribe to Showtime but have yet not done so because of the historical way premium cable has been packaged.
OTT will facilitate sign-ups with them as well.
So just like HBO now is proving we see tremendous opportunity at Showtime.
This new over-the-top service and the international expansion we told you about last quarter are made possible by the incredible creative success story we have going right now at Showtime.
We have more hit shows on the network than ever before and the majority of them are owned by us and are just being monetized.
We're constantly adding to this pipeline including a terrific new drama coming up called Billions that is currently in production.
It's about the inner workings of Wall Street hotshots and I predict it will find an audience with a number of people right here on this very call.
And of course last weekend we had what we're confident will be the highest grossing pay-per-view fight of all time between Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao.
This event clearly captured the world's attention and in doing so provided us with a nice profit and a terrific opportunity for Showtime to continue elevating its now global brand.
Our world-class content is also making its mark at Simon &amp; Schuster.
We're very pleased that All the Light We Cannot See by Anthony Doerr won the 2015 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction.
This book has been a huge success.
It's been on the bestseller list for an entire year now with sales approaching 2 million copies.
Needless to say we're extremely honored by this prestigious award.
At our local businesses as the weather has improved after a tough winter so is advertising.
Our TV stations continue to benefit from our retrans and reverse comp deals as well as our big event programming.
Sales revenue for the NCAA Men's Basketball Championship game were up double digits over last year and our stations attracted record sales for the Academy of Country Music Awards.
And in radio we have welcomed an impressive executive Andre Fernandez to serve as our new President.
Andre took the reins from a friend and longtime colleague Dan Mason who retired last month.
Andre has a successful track record as President of a public company portfolio of newspapers TV and radio stations and digital assets.
We look forward to all that he will do to build on our major market strategy and keep radio growing into the future.
So across our company we're moving forward from a position of great strength and it all starts with our content where we continue to grow our audience and reach new viewers.
This season we added to the pipeline at least a half a dozen new shows including 4 from CBS 1 from Showtime and 1 from The CW all of which we own.
Each of these shows is just beginning to be sold internationally in syndication and in SVOD.
This represents the most shows that we've ever launched in a single year since we became the new CBS Corporation 9 years ago.
And in that regard it's quite possibly the best season anyone has ever had.
We look forward to these shows paying off for years to come and we'll be planting the seeds for more in the coming weeks.
At the same time advertising is improving and our nonadvertising revenue streams are benefiting from new opportunities all the time.
From 500 channels to ala carte from over-the-air to over-the-top CBS is must-have programming.
This fact is not changing no matter how fast the world may be.
So I'm very pleased about all we continue to achieve and I'm even more excited about all that we have left to do.
With that I'll turn it over to Joe.
Thanks Les and good afternoon everyone.
I want to start by echoing Les's remarks about how excited we are to compete in this ever-changing media landscape.
When you have the content the strategy and the balance sheet that we do the opportunities are enormous.
Before I take you through the numbers I want to discuss our ever-changing revenue mix which is a big part of our overall strategic plan.
One of the great benefits of our transformation into a content-centric company is that we continue to find new ways to monetize our shows.
Advertising represented 51% of total revenue during the quarter with the other 49% coming from high-margin fast-growing revenue streams.
These streams are led by retrans and reverse comp international licensing and increasingly innovative distribution platforms such as CBS All Access.
In fact our $6 a month over-the-top service is far exceeding our expectations and it underscores our value in retrans and reverse comp negotiations.
And at the same time that we are growing our diverse revenue sources we are also expanding our content pipeline in a big way by investing in premium programming resulting in new hits across our networks that we can monetize for years to come.
So we are very well positioned for the future and we remain committed as ever to returning value to our shareholders.
In January we took advantage of very attractive interest rates to raise $1.2 billion of debt and we used that cash to repurchase stock at an accelerated pace early in the quarter.
As a result we retired 17.2 million shares at an average price of $58 per share for a total of $1 billion in Q1.
As of March 31 we had $3.8 billion remaining on our share repurchase program which as we've told you previously we plan to complete sometime in 2016.
In addition given our change in revenue mix and our free cash flow generation we are now comfortable broadening our debt to OIBDA target ratio to a range of 2.5x to 2.75x.
Just as we always do we will revisit our capital return opportunities with our board when we near the completion of our existing plan.
Now let me give you some more details about our first quarter results.
Revenue came in at $3.5 billion compared with $3.57 billion last year.
Advertising was down 5% primarily because of an additional NFL playoff game we had in Q1 of last year but the good news is underlying network advertising was up 1%.
Affiliate and subscription fees were up double digits for the second consecutive quarter thanks to our new retrans and reverse comp deals and content licensing and distribution was down 4%.
As you know by now these fees can vary from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of content availability.
As we told you on our last call we are now using operating income as a key financial metric instead of OIBDA.
For the first quarter operating income came in at $702 million compared with $791 million in 2014 reflecting our continued investment in programming.
Just to give you some perspective our CBS Television Studios produced more than 30 hours of originals for CBS and The CW in Q1 of 2015 compared with last year.
At an average price of a few million dollars per hour this investment is our highest ROI and will pay back in the years ahead as we sell these shows across multiple platforms around the world.
As you heard we also turned in our best-ever first quarter for EPS which was up 1% to $0.78.
And we did this despite a foreign exchange impact that cost us $0.04 of EPS during the quarter.
Now let's turn to our operating segments.
First quarter entertainment revenue was $2.26 billion down 2% from last year when we had that additional NFL playoff game that I just mentioned.
However this segment benefited from our new retrans and reverse comp agreements which resulted in higher network affiliation fees.
In addition our interactive businesses delivered a strong revenue quarter driven by CBS All Access CBSN and our CBS Sports websites.
Entertainment operating income for the quarter came in at $346 million.
Again this reflects our investment in more originals including NCIS: New Orleans Madam Secretary and Scorpion at CBS and Jane the Virgin at The CW.
And the best part is we have not yet begun to monetize those episodes on SVOD or domestic syndication.
In Cable Networks first quarter revenue came in at $539 million up from $537 million last year.
We offset last year's significant streaming sale of Dexter with growth in affiliate fees as well as higher international licensing fees which were helped by our deal with Bell Media in Canada.
Stable operating income for the first quarter was $251 million down $3 million from 2014.
This reflects the timing of the actual programming as well as an investment to increase our bandwidth infrastructure as we prepare for the launch of Showtime over-the-top.
Even so our cable operating income margin held strong at 47%.
In publishing Q1 revenue was $145 million down $8 million from last year.
However operating profit was up 9% to $12 million as digital content which is more profitable than print increased to 31% of total publishing revenue for the quarter.
We continue to turn out great content here as well with 64 New York Times bestsellers during the quarter including 3 that hit #1.
In Local Broadcasting first quarter revenue came in at $596 million down 5%.
TV stations were down 3% and radio stations were down 7%.
I'd like to remind you as a result of our radio station swap with Beasley last year we now have 9 fewer radio stations in our portfolio.
In addition the harsh weather that hit Boston New York Chicago Philadelphia and Detroit where we have 40 TV and radio stations contributed to the advertising slowdown that we saw during the quarter particularly in the retail and entertainment categories.
However we are seeing a pickup across several key advertising categories in Q2.
And Local Broadcasting operating income during the quarter was $161 million down from $179 million.
Turning to cash flow and the balance sheet.
Free cash flow for the first quarter came in at $400 million compared with $520 million last year due to our higher sports and original prime time programming investments and we finished the quarter with $331 million of cash on hand and gross debt of $7.7 billion.
Now let me tell you what we see ahead.
Advertising at our local businesses is improving.
Our stations are pacing to be about even with Q2 as we begin to comp against increased political spending from a year ago.
We also expect our nonadvertising revenue streams to grow.
In particular we have just about under 20% of our footprint coming up for renewal in retrans and reverse comp during the rest of 2015.
So affiliate and subscription fees will ramp up throughout the year.
In addition we expect Showtime over-the-top to be a meaningful driver of our cable results in the near future.
There was a large underserved market here and we anticipate strong demand for this service.
And of course we continue to have a lot of headwind to grow internationally as well as our international sales team had 6 freshmen hits in their arsenal that they have to sell.
So in summary our first quarter once again speaks to the strength of our strategy which is to monetize our content across an increasing number of revenue streams.
We are focused on producing the best content and here at CBS we remain at the top of our game.
Our investment in programming led to an unprecedented number of hits across CBS Showtime and The CW this season.
Each new hit adds to our pipeline which is looking as strong as it has in years.
So from retrans and reverse comp to multi-platform syndication to over-the-top services there are terrific opportunities before us and that is why we are so confident that we have a bright future ahead.
With that Gwen let's open the line for questions please? [Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> First off I'd like to lend my service to you as highly paid creative consultant on Billions.
So I'll be waiting for a call after this call.
Join the list.
We have quite a list on that.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I had 2 questions one for Les and one for Joe.
The first is for Les.
Look our understanding from what we see from the buy side of syndicated programming is that linear -- on a linear side it certainly seems to be directly tied to audience deliveries in the prime first-run.
And I think there are some concern amongst investors that as you get changing viewership habits whether or not people are actually watching less first-run prime certainly maybe some of that viewership isn't being measured and you are going to get lower ratings.
And as a result do you get lower pricing per episode for your content? And when you think about the other platforms where you're also monetizing if there is a direct relationship between ratings and kind of what the value of an episode is in linear how do you determine that kind of -- what determines the pricing on SVOD? How tied is it to ratings on the international market? That's first.
And I guess for Joe we noticed that Moody's had some positive comments out on your increased financial flexibility and what they thought with the increased financial flexibility given the kind of shift in your revenue mix more toward contractual revenue.
So given that you've broadened the target leverage range to 2.5x to 2.75x do you think -- do you expect to complete the existing buyback authorization earlier than you did previously when you gave that initial target? Thanks David.
I'll deal with the first one.
As I mentioned look we're in a changing landscape but the great news is in measurable number of viewers that we are getting paid for we are above where we were 11 years ago.
So yes there's more that goes to DVR usage there's more that's online there's more -- however the advertising dollars per viewer is higher than it's ever been and we are extremely excited about that.
In terms of the international marketplace it's never been stronger because guess what SVOD is growing rapidly in each of these places.
Plus the international marketplace is expanding into Asia more and obviously eastern Europe and Latin America markets that didn't exist.
But as I said SVOD there's a great deal of competition now throughout the major territories that we do business with.
And SVOD once again -- as I mentioned Hulu is now a major player.
They spent $180 million on Seinfeld.
By the way we own 9% of that show just parenthetically.
So clearly there's another player in the marketplace that's saying "This show that hasn't been on the air for 10 years is worth that kind of money." So with Netflix still playing strong with Amazon playing strong with Hulu you see all sorts of other programmers getting into the marketplace.
And as long as we continue doing what is our job which is to produce hit content we're going to be fine and we're going to grow a lot.
Joe? And David for the leverage ratio again I think we told you for some time again we've been focused on changing the business model.
And I think the agencies certainly have acknowledged that.
So yes there is no change really to the timing.
I think again we said completed sometime in '15.
So if you kind of just look at '16 if you just look at that...
LLC Research Division</strong> You can make it '15 if you want.
5 to 7 quarters I mean you can kind of just roll that out.
What I would just point to is that's a $6 billion program which is 20% of our market cap within 2 years.
So I'd say we're kind of putting our money where our mouth is.
And we'll go next to Jessica Reif Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> For Les so just -- both or whoever wants to take it.
But -- and you seem really excited about some of the strategic ventures for good reasons.
Could you -- can we just hone in on a couple of them? On Showtime over-the-top there's a huge audience that doesn't get Showtime right now and that's pretty obvious.
You seem really bullish about the prospects.
How will you price it -- so you don't cannibalize pay TV right now.
And how will you market who's going to sell it? And the same thing for Apple I mean there's a lot of speculation on pricing.
You did say you got a bigger slice in a skinny bundle.
Several million subs can make a huge difference to your bottom line.
So can you talk about timing and maybe other -- Apple anything you can say on pricing and others coming down the road? We don't want to get too specific and I think we both can answer the question.
Obviously Showtime over-the-top -- Showtime's in about 23 million homes right now.
They have a universe of over 100 million homes.
And as we said you have to get the basic cable package then you have to check off HBO before you -- so you're already spending like $120 before you get Showtime.
Now and once again we are going to deal with our existing partners and new partners but there is going to be an easier way to just check the box and get Showtime.
We will make more money on each Showtime sub than we currently do in the existing universe.
We're not going to get specific now because those numbers are continuing to be worked out.
And once again in a smaller bundle some of you that offer 20 channels at a lower price point we're going to be a more important part of that bundle.
So whether it's Apple or Sony or anyone else the amount of money we're getting per sub once again goes up a lot.
And as you said just a couple of million more subs in each one of these categories is a huge amount of revenue and profit for us.
Joe anything to add? No.
Research Division</strong> And then the second question is -- obviously the success of the company over the last 5 10 years has been to -- your enormous success in your programming.
And you said you could scale up.
Do you think you'll have any success this season selling outside the CBS family or you've been trying to? We -- look we have shows in development out there whether they get on we -- I think there'll be a couple of shows on other cable networks that we don't own.
I doubt there'll be other networks but between Showtime CBS and CW we're producing more than 40 shows right now including Perks [ph] Simplification.
So we have quite a lot going on and I think we will be selling to other places.
We'll go next to Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Les I don't know if this is meant to be an increase.
I'm sort of reading it as one but you talked about $2 billion in retrans and reverse comp or more -- sorry into 2020 if not before.
Just the question is is that an increase from your prior expectation? And if so are you factoring in some of these new entrants or other additional distribution platforms that you weren't before? And then I have a follow-up for Joe.
I think it's a few things.
Look put it this way: We're even more confident than before of the $2 billion.
We think we're going to get beyond that.
Yes there are new entrants as everybody knows.
In addition the price of poker has gone up.
With every succeeding deal we have said we're going to get more money and there is now other rights that are available and other products that's available.
So yes that $2 billion we consider to be a conservative number at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Joe just on the Bell Media deal I know you can't size it for us per se.
But just given the way the revenue is recognized I don't know if you could spend a minute on that and whether sort of this business kind of has a quarterly run rate.
Is it lumpy? Or do we see sort of Q2 3 4 the same kind of revenue we saw on Q1? How does it work just qualitatively? I mean just think about this as they're paying agreed-upon fees per show.
They're paying for the trademark the brand.
So as we continue to produce shows they're going to pay.
So it's not kind of like a one-wonder in terms of it's only in 1 quarter.
So this is a multiyear agreement that obviously we're pretty excited about.
By the way the brand at Bell Media this Crave TV is called Crave TV in Canada.
So we're pretty excited about it but Ben and really the bigger opportunity is we're saying it works in Canada.
I think it can work in many other countries.
It's just really what's working is the content and the brand.
And so that's really given us great hope that this can be one of many.
Research Division</strong> So this isn't tied specifically to a Q1 delivery as this is more ongoing.
I mean -- and let's think about it as an output.
As we're reporting on shows there's much more in the pipeline.
So Les mentioned Billions.
So Billions will be on this on-demand service and we've kind of prenegotiated what those rates are.
So it gives us great visibility into the revenue -- the future revenue prospects of Showtime.
And we'll go next to Michael Morris with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple questions about All Access.
I guess first just real briefly would you be willing to share any information on the uptake of the product at this point or penetration of usage where it is available? No.
We are very pleased it's exceeding expectations as we mentioned.
We have over half the country involved now and that's just with the live feed.
And we expect by the beginning of the fall season by September to virtually have the entire country covered with that.
And once again it's sort of the first opportunity for the affiliate body to share in our $6 rate and they are very pleased about it by and large and we are happy to have them promoting it and marketing it alongside us.
And Mike it's Joe.
Obviously what really excited us is the $6 price point.
The take rate on the $6 price point really gives us a lot of confidence.
When we go talk to our distribution partners at selling it at a discount to that we have proof in the marketplace that this is fair market value.
LLC Research Division</strong> Joe that's great.
That was the second question I wanted to ask.
Because Les mentioned I think that the majority of the usage is catch-up viewing and I think -- it seems to me that maybe 2 incremental opportunities for you with traditional distributors right now are out-of-home rights and stacked viewing which just seems like this product people are willing to pay for.
So I guess that -- my question there is on those 2 facets how much of your current sub bases is penetrated on and you're getting paid for those 2 services? And how does that unfold over the next I don't know year to several years? Yes.
We've not sold -- obviously in-season content to any partner and nor out-of-home rights for CBS.
So I think as Les mentioned as we look at consumption on All Access what's driving it is national VOD.
So the appetite seems to be -- traditionally on cbs.com we have a 7-day delay.
So it seems like the consumer wants it quicker and again at a $6 price point it makes it very attractive to us.
So again as we continue to roll this out it's giving us more and more confidence in our content.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you expect your distribution deals to contemplate having broader stack rights in the near future? We suspect the demand for out-of-home rights delivered in multiple ways is growing and it's really being driven by the consumer because of their crazy schedules and the way they consume it.
So clearly that will be part of future negotiations and we're happy to talk about what the value of those rights are.
But clearly we're demonstrating it with the $6 price point.
And we'll go next to Anthony DiClemente with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions for Les.
Les last night on the FOX call Chase said that viewers are not going to be captive viewers that sit through 16 minutes of advertising that ads need to be more engaging and more interactive.
You said in your prepared remarks that no ads are more effective than CBS's ads.
The question is what gives you the confidence that network TV ads are still as effective for marketers as let's say a YouTube TrueView ad or a Facebook auto-play ad online? And then a related question on the Disney call Bob Iger said that money is definitely migrated out of traditional media into new media.
And when we think about some of the contributing factors to that one of them could be that the agencies are incentivized to advise their clients to shift to digital because the margins for them are higher.
I'm wondering if you think that's kind of a structural frustration for you guys and how you feel about the agency's role in this shift to digital.
In terms of the first question we have done extensive studies through Poltrack that shows that the consumers are much more engaged and the return on investment for the advertisers is much more effective at CBS.
May I also add our ratings are -- when you look at viewers overall they're considerably higher than Fox and they're in different businesses than we are and our numbers are considerably better.
And our advertising we think is more effective from the engagement that we have in the kind of shows that we do.
Yes there is a lot written to Bob Iger's point about the shifting marketplace into the digital.
Obviously we have a number of digital assets and we are seeing a rise in those.
As I said we do not see it affecting the broader-based television advertising platform.
We think once again it's affecting the niche cable networks much more that it's much more effective or it can be to go digital when you're trying to do that than reach a broad audience.
So those who have more basic cable assets may be that -- like Bob does maybe they are seeing a shift there in digital.
We are not seeing the shift out of network.
We're seeing scatter pricing being up and we're looking forward to the upfront where we expect volume and pricing both could be up fairly significantly.
And we'll take our next question from Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Given your success in the TV studio business and the impressive commentary you had about the ROI there I guess what is your appetite to expand that business or acquire other businesses in that area or just build upon it? Then I have a follow-up.
Look Alexia this is Joe.
Look we can expand that if the content -- all the elements are there.
And so to produce great content you need great script.
You need writers producers and stuff.
So we can grow that organically.
We don't necessarily need acquisitions to grow our studio expand our studio.
If the right opportunity is there we're always looking at those things.
However I think just by the last year we have demonstrated -- as we just said this last quarter our same studio without an acquisition is producing 30 more hours of original content.
So we don't need to stop there.
Plus 6 new hits plus late night shows.
Our studio is very proactive and by that you don't necessarily have to acquire companies.
You acquire talent like Colbert and Corden and you bring them into your home.
You acquired talent like Nick Santora [ph] who created Scorpion.
And that's what we do and that's what we've done for many years and that's how we expand our content business.
Research Division</strong> And then just following up on your comments on over-the-top.
And when you consider -- when you're considering CBS's participations on these over-the-top offerings which you have I guess how much of the advertising model or the advertising potential even a consideration -- or is really just all about the incremental sub fees at this point? Well look the advertising is still 50% of our business.
So it's definitely still important; it's part of our conversation.
I think when you see us do deals with partners we disable fast-forward in our deals so it's clearly an important part of our mix.
But again obviously we're looking at the overall business model and how it's transforming.
And again we want to price our content right.
And we'll go next to Doug Mitchelson with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So Chase Carey yesterday indicated -- they were thinking that broadcast networks need to control more of the rights or all the rights of their shows.
And that contrasted to me with your comments Les...
Doug could you speak louder please? We're having trouble hearing you.
Research Division</strong> Can you hear me now? A little bit.
A little better.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So look Chase Carey yesterday indicated they think broadcast networks need to control most or all the rights of their shows going forward.
And that contrasted to me with your comments Les around the fact that you sell shows multiple times which has obviously been the nature of the business on the TV programming side so far.
So when you think about CBS All Access and the value proposition it offers and you mentioned catch-up viewing driving that business it would seem to make sense that you start to have stacking rights and SVOD rights built into CBS All Access.
Do you see a world where rather than selling shows and slicing and dicing them in multiple ways you just run the power of those TV shows through your own distribution trying to capture full value? The marketplace is evolving so rapidly.
Look we are slicing and dicing and then putting on different platforms and some of those platforms may be looked on as potential competitors.
And as CBS All Access grows that may be the sole place where we stack those shows and where we put those shows.
But at the moment every show that we have we treat it as entirely different property and sell it in a very different way and have a real strategy to most effectively sell that.
As soon as All Access hits 20 million subs then we may look at the world a little bit differently.
Research Division</strong> That's fair.
And then on the upfront your comments about significant increases in the volume and price I know you're not going to give us a number but does that -- should that suggest to all of us that you expect the upfront to perhaps do better than some of the prognosticators have expected? Or are you just talking about your specific market position? Put it this way -- and there are clear -- there are certain networks that have done very well this year and certain networks that haven't done so well.
I'm not going to go into great detail but you could figure that out yourselves.
So we are up and we expect it to be a good marketplace.
And we'll go next to David Miller with Topeka Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Les as you gear up for the upfront coming up here we're hearing from some of our media buyer sources that the currency this year in broadcast will be sort of 1 of 2 different kind of sub-currencies: live ratings and C7.
And it just feels like -- correct me if you think I'm wrong it just feels like C3 is getting sort of pushed under the rug kind of going by the wayside in terms of overall importance.
Do you believe that? Or do you agree with that? And one thing in your negotiations is why do you want to favor C7 anyway just because of the strength of your Monday and Tuesday night schedule which clearly everyone watches on DVR over the weekends? Well thank you David.
Look the DVR numbers are going up in leaps and bounds.
You take a show like Elementary which -- where you're adding a C7 number it basically goes up by 50%.
So I made this statement which I think is more true than ever: Overnight ratings are virtually useless unless you just want to feel good in the morning or feel bad depending on what network you have.
So C7 definitely we expect it to overwhelm C3 in the coming upfront we hope so we think it's more appropriate.
And judging from the feedback we're getting from a lot more advertising agencies we think that will be the currency.
Obviously some of the live programming like sports and live events that currency becomes much more important.
So we are capable of selling it both ways but our scripted programming most specifically our scripted dramas and more than anything else -- and the comedies as well that extra 7 days means a great deal.
And we'll go next to John Janedis with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Les you started the call talking about changing consumer habits.
With the emergence of your apps and technology broadly I was hoping you could talk more about your views on mobile platforms.
Some of the concern in the market is the challenge in monetizing mobile usage at all or the big discount to the traditional platforms.
So what line of sight do you have on improved monetization on the platform that's meaning mobile? I'm going to let Joe deal with that.
Yes sure.
Look it's definitely consumer.
So as the consumer wants to consume the content on a mobile device that's what's really driving that.
What we're going to do is we're going to make sure we cut deals that make sense for us to have the content where the consumer wants it.
So as Les said at the outset it's our job is to produce the best content and again -- and market it and get it in front of the consumers in a business model that's better than where we sit today.
And I think every indication from a technological standpoint or a consumer habit standpoint basically proves that out.
And we'll go next to Jason Bazinet with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just one for Mr.
Moonves.
I understand why everyone is very excited about Showtime over-the-top and CBS All Access.
But at the same time I'm struck by Netflix's market cap and how excited people are about -- to sort of their broader international push.
Is there a holistic strategy that you all have to sort of take all of your content and do something broader globally as opposed to sort of the narrow initiatives that we're all talking about that people are justifiably excited about? Is there something bigger? You know what it's a very good question Jason.
I guess eventually that will be part of what we do.
Remember when Netflix started I don't think they had this great international game plan.
When they achieved such great subscriber success here in the U.S.
with the product and obviously the model was working everybody was supportive of it -- but right now All Access is about 6 months old Showtime OTT is going to be launched in a few months.
We hope they achieve such a high level of success that we do push them internationally.
Look we are in control of this content.
That's the big change in the world.
So we control over 80% of the shows that are on CBS at a similar percentage on Showtime.
So now we can move from market to market like we did in Canada with Showtime territory to territory and we can have a bigger global footprint with exactly what you're talking about.
And we'll go next to Bryan Kraft with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Had a question for Les and one for Joe.
Les I know you shared your thoughts on the upfront already but can you comment on the current scatter market pricing market and volume trends you're seeing? And Joe on the leverage target raise is the idea here that you'll use the additional flexibility to buy back more shares? Or is this dry powder for an opportunistic investment or transaction? And I guess further on that front how married are you to the new leverage target range in the short term? I mean would you lever up higher temporarily if an opportunistic transaction were to present itself? Bryan the scatter market is very strong.
It's up double digits right now.
As I said earlier we're really pleased -- normally at this time of the year we have lot more repeats than we do but we've got a much larger percentage of original programming and our schedule remains very strong.
So we're very pleased with what we're seeing and that demand has increased since the beginning of the year.
Now -- and as I said we're heading into the upfront at a very good time where we're feeling very strong about the marketplace.
And Brian on the leverage ratio obviously we are increasing our financial flexibility there that's why we felt comfortable increasing it.
Basically we're going to use that financial flexibility first and foremost to reinvest in our business.
I think that's key.
We do not see any acquisition out there of any significance for that.
And then the excess capital is always -- we're going to focus on returning value to shareholders.
And our primary method right now is obviously returning value via stock buyback given where the stock is and all these initiatives that you just heard on the call.
So we're pretty optimistic about our future earnings potential.
So we think it's a good buy.
So like I said earlier we're kind of putting our money where our mouth is and we're going to continue to do that.
And we'll go next to Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 2.
And I guess hypothetically when you're discussing the over-the-top products within Apple or Sony and they want to do the linear feed how do the station groups fall into this? Is this something where you would negotiate on behalf of the entire affiliate body and then figure out what their cut is? That's my first question.
And then my second question is I know radio is small but the trades are going to pick up the 7% decline.
Is there a core number you can give if you were to exclude the radio stations that were swapped last year? Yes.
Marci it's Joe.
As far as the OTT obviously as we roll those out we can do that in different ways.
I think the affiliates could go and try to negotiate those one-off and pay us for the content for those rights or we do it globally and they get a piece of that.
I think again it's 6 to 1 half dozen or the other whichever way CBS is going to get its fair share of the value of that.
So -- and like I said on the over-the-top service that we have today most of the viewership is the video-on-demand product the next day so -- which again we own 100% of.
So I think that's going to continue to roll out across the country and we're pretty excited about that.
As Les said we're clearing the live linear piece by the end of the year in most of the country.
So that's speaks for itself and again the affiliates are participating in this.
This is a partnership that they will participate but we do own the intellectual property of that content.
As far as radio look obviously it's much smaller than the 7.
I think again I don't know how you quantify the impact on the weather and stuff when you strip that out to get to a pure underlying but I think again we tried to give you some color about the second quarter.
We think that's more indicative of the current marketplace of what it is and we have high expectations for our new President.
Thank you Marci and thank you everyone for joining us.
This concludes today's call.
Have a good evening.
Thank you everyone.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Please stand by we're about to begin.
Good day everyone and welcome to the CBS Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Teleconference.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to the Executive Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter 2015 earnings call.
Listening on the phone is Sumner Redstone our Executive Chairman; and joining us for today's remarks are Leslie Moonves President and CEO; and Joe Ianniello Chief Operating Officer.
Les and Joe will discuss the strategic and financial results of the company and then we'll open the call up to questions.
Please note that during today's conference the second quarter 2015 results are discussed on an adjusted basis unless otherwise specified.
Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information related to this call can be found in our earnings release or on our website.
Also statements on this conference call relating to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed in CBS Corporation's securities filings.
A webcast of this call and the earnings release related to today's presentation can be found on the Investors section of our website at cbscorporation.com.
And with that it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Les.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Adam and good afternoon everybody and thank you for joining us.
I'm pleased to tell you that we posted solid financial results once again including growth in revenue and EPS.
Revenue was up 1% to $3.22 billion and EPS was up 3% to $0.74 marking another record.
Much of this is being driven by our core business which remains strong at CBS and Showtime and our other brands as well.
And what's more important is that we achieved these increases now while we continue to build the company for the long-term.
The heart of our strategy is to create must-have content and position ourselves for the broadband future.
During the quarter we took significant steps forward in this regard.
First we launched the new streaming service for Showtime.
This will enable us to gain subscriptions from a potential new audience of as many as 90 million households.
Next we greatly expanded the reach of CBS All Access our over-the-top subscription service.
We now have deals with our affiliates to stream CBS live in more than 75% of the country and of course All Access on-demand is already available nationwide.
Sign-ups are increasing consistently week-to-week and that will only accelerate when we debut our fall schedule next month.
Plus we're seeing excellent subscriber retention in time spent viewing meaning we have strong customer satisfaction.
This success will drive our subscription revenue and give us control of our future as the marketplace continues to change.
With both Showtime OTT and CBS All Access we are establishing price points for our programming that are much higher than what we have gotten before.
In addition Showtime All Access and CBSN our growing OTT news product have all been launched in-house.
We didn't have to buy some other company or outsource anything to get them off the ground.
We own the technology.
So these broadcast offerings these broadband offerings rather will drive high margin income as they continue to grow.
All of this in addition to the rapid growth we continue to see in retrans and reverse comp.
In just these last few weeks we have made deals with several significant partners including AT&amp;T on the retransmission front and Sinclair Nexstar and others on the reverse compensation front.
Each of these deals resets the value of our content higher than it was before.
Thanks to the tremendous progress we are making in this area we are now prepared to say that we will exceed our goal of $2 billion in revenue from retrans and reverse comp by 2020.
In addition we had previously said we'd get to $1 billion by 2017.
We will now surpass that target next year in 2016.
These are dollars that fall right to the bottom line.
Plus as we read about all the time there are a number of new players preparing to enter the streaming marketplace.
I assure you that CBS is a must-have for each of them.
This is especially important with any kind of skinny bundle that comes along and they are coming along.
These new bundles will increasingly pay us higher rates more in line with the large audiences who watch our content.
Remember out of every network on television broadcast or cable and every site on the Internet we have the most watched programming there is anywhere and we will get paid the appropriate amount for it.
A similar dynamic is also taking place in the international marketplace.
As the major U.S.-based SVoD companies expand aggressively overseas local assets with their own SVoD services are now stepping up to compete.
So there are all sorts of new places where we can sell our content around the world.
As a result we continue to post rapid and sustainable growth in international license fees.
With such great demand for our content across global platforms we're in a very enviable position with new opportunities opening up for us all the time.
Our confidence in these opportunities and in the continued success of our base business is the reason we continue to return value to shareholders.
We are using our healthy free cash flow to opportunistically buy back our stock while at the same time significantly investing in our program which will ensure our future as the premier content company.
Next month we will premiere our new fall schedule on the CBS Television Network.
I think we have a terrific mix of shows that importantly will own 80% of our primetime schedule; that is up from about 70% last year.
Owning more of our content is obviously a priority for us given all the ways we can now monetize it.
After launching four new owned hits last fall on CBS plus one on The CW and one on Showtime six hits we look forward to starting a whole new cycle of content monetization again this year.
And just like last year we'll be adding Thursday Night Football to a primetime lineup that is already extremely strong.
This allows us to launch our new schedule at staggered time giving each new show the most promotion the most powerful lead-ins and the best possible chance of success.
There is a reason CBS has returned more new shows from last year than any other network.
Meanwhile CBS is about to begin the biggest single year any network has ever had in terms of NFL programming including Thursdays Sundays and Super Bowl 50.
And Super Bowl advertising is already proving to be more lucrative than ever with 30-second spots selling for $5 million and additional digital revenue being generated for Super Bowl ads online.
With the NFL and a primetime lineup that will be even stronger than last year I'm also prepared to make a bold statement.
CBS will win the 2015/2016 season just as we have done 12 of the last 13 years.
Our prospects next year are why the upfront marketplace played out well for us this summer.
We were once again the leaders in pricing with mid-single digit CPM increases true volume was not as robust as in years past across the industry.
People are just waiting longer to make their buying choices.
But right now we're seeing the scatter ad market accelerate rapidly in the third quarter with double digit gains in pricing.
We see that extending beyond Q3 and are confident that the strength and stability of our lineup will lead to increases throughout the season.
In the end big-ticket programming will prove to be the best place for advertisers to be.
In addition to primetime and sports I want to point out two dayparts that performed particularly well for us in the Upfront.
The first was late night where we posted very healthy Upfront increases in both pricing and volume.
Advertisers are clearly as excited as we are about the debut of Stephen Colbert next month.
They also like what they see from James Corden at 12:30 a.m.
who has exceeded our expectations in every way including online where his show is approaching 200 million clip videos led by his carpool karaoke bit with Justin Bieber which is now at 31 million views.
Late night programming obviously lends itself to online clips and increasingly to international syndication too.
Our ownership in both of these shows is allowing us to monetize them across platforms and around the world in a way we never could with this daypart before.
Second CBS News also posted solid Upfront gains.
Every single one of our news broadcasts has more viewers now than it did a year ago.
Our hard news approach is clearly working and it will pay off that much more in the quarters to come as we broadcast our shows through the election cycle.
Finally on the Upfront C7 was an even bigger part of our sales this year.
As you know this has been a very important initiative for us.
Every single ad impression has value and we're still in the early stages of this opportunity.
Measurement will eventually become sophisticated enough to capture all viewing regardless of when and where it happens.
As it does those with the biggest audience will benefit the most.
Turning to Cable as I mentioned at the top our new Showtime streaming service is a very significant development.
It only launched less than a month ago but we've seen a terrific level of interest.
We're up and running on Apple Roku Hulu and Sony PlayStation and we'll be announcing many new partners in the very near future.
Just to give you a sense of the opportunity here every 1 million subs we add for Showtime OTT represents $100 million in new annual revenue much of which will drop right to the bottom line.
As I said earlier there are about 90 million households in the U.S.
that will now have the ability to add Showtime directly for the first time.
This includes broadband-only homes and homes that previously could only purchase Showtime after buying basic cable packages.
Capturing just a small percentage of these subscribers will begin to pay off immediately and will lead to a tremendous upside for us.
We feel very good about our ability to do this given the creative momentum we have going on at Showtime.
New seasons of Ray Donovan and Masters of Sex have been the best yet and we have Homeland and The Affair returning in the fall plus we will have our new Wall Street drama Billions and the highly anticipated Twin Peaks premiering next year.
Also at Showtime we continue to benefit from our boxing deal with Floyd Mayweather.
During the quarter his fight with Manny Pacquiao was the highest grossing pay-per-view event of all time grossing more than $600 million.
And just yesterday we announced our next Mayweather fight coming up on September 12.
In Publishing Simon &amp; Schuster is also producing great content.
Pulitzer Prize-winning All the Light We Cannot See continues to sell extremely well for us.
It's been on The New York Times Best Seller for more than a year and near the top since the holidays.
In addition we have just begun to have great success tapping into a new generation of authors by signing some of the hottest young online personalities.
With their tens of millions of followers on YouTube and other platforms these books have punched through and become fast-moving best sellers for us.
We have also added a new subscription model to Simon &amp; Schuster where people pay a monthly fee for access to books from a wide variety of publishers.
This is yet another example of growing a whole new revenue stream on the strength of our content.
Turning to Local Broadcasting we knew 2015 would be a challenge just as we know 2016 will be much much better.
The coming election cycle will clearly trump anything we've ever seen before.
And despite all the talk that campaigns will be moving their dollars online and indeed some money is going there POLITICO estimated last week that TV ad spending TV ad spending for the 2016 campaign will top $4.4 billion.
That's $0.5 billion up from 2012 and four times as much as campaigns are expected to spend on digital.
Other estimates see political spending coming in even much higher than that.
What's clear is that our TV stations are terrifically positioned to capitalize on this and there will also be a great opportunity for our radio stations to build on the momentum they achieved during last year's midterm elections.
Meanwhile in radio our new management team is making the right moves to rejuvenate the business for the digital future.
CBS RADIO has huge huge brands like WFAN in New York and The Score in Chicago that are now able to find new ways to grow by expanding onto digital platforms outside of their own markets.
Speaking of the digital future just last week CBS Interactive also launched a whole new paid subscription business called SportsLine which plays off the original name for CBSSports.com.
This new site will tap into the growing appetite for data-driven sports analytics and the growing market for the daily live fantasy games.
With the power and reach of CBS Sports behind it SportsLine is another example of how we are leveraging resources across our company to generate new incremental revenue streams.
So across our business segments from Entertainment to Cable to Publishing to Local Broadcasting we are investing in our core as a content company and capitalizing on current and future digital opportunities.
The future is now and we are part of it across the board.
The future continues next month with the launch of our new schedule the debut of The Late Show with Stephen Colbert and the return of Thursday Night Football followed by Super Bowl 50.
The future also continues when we launch another round of new owned shows this fall and because space is so tight on the CBS schedule our studio continues to debut content on other networks as well including promising new shows in development for non-CBS broadcast and cable outlet.
Our future also continues as we embark on a whole new chapter streaming Showtime over-the-top and expanding CBS All Access and CBSN.
Plus our streaming revenue will expand significantly as we sign new deals with the big-name companies we are talking to right now.
And our future also includes national advertising accelerating in Q3 as well as the Super Bowl and a frenzied political season in 2016.
And it also includes all the non-advertising revenue sources that will drive our earnings going forward including retrans reverse comp and international licensing.
With Showtime OTT All Access CBSN new domestic and international SVoD services inside the home rights outside the home rights our new SportsLine site subscription books and much more CBS clearly is built for now and for the future.
We are here to win and we're confident we will.
With that I will turn it over to Joe.
Thanks Les and good afternoon everyone.
As you've seen we've delivered solid results while we continue to invest in the content and technology that will lead to even more success in the years ahead.
This investment in our strong networks and content brands has uniquely positioned CBS to take advantage of all the shifts underway in our industry.
We remain focused on creating the best programming enhancing our incremental revenue streams and capitalizing on the new ways consumers want their content.
As a result we will continue to benefit while we set ourselves up for future growth.
Now let me give you some more details about our second quarter results.
Revenue was up 1% to $3.22 billion and we achieved an even 50%/50% split between our advertising and non-advertising revenue sources thanks to all the actions we are taking to diversify our revenue mix.
For the quarter affiliate and subscription fees grew 28%.
The increase was partly driven by the Mayweather-Pacquiao fight which as you heard was the highest grossing pay-per-view event of all time.
Separating out the pay-per-view revenue underlying affiliate and subscription fees were up 11% driven by another strong quarter for retrans and reverse comp which were up 40% in the quarter.
Content licensing and distribution was down 10% due to the timing of domestic TV licensing sales including a large Criminal Minds deal last year.
Meanwhile international continues to be strong and grew 20% during the quarter and advertising was down 3% due to a decline in local ad spending.
However underlying network advertising came in even with last year.
Operating income in the second quarter was $641 million compared with $730 million last year due to a higher investment in original programming and our digital distribution initiatives.
As Les said EPS was up 3% to $0.74.
These numbers were adjusted to exclude $55 million in restructuring charges primarily at our radio and TV station operations.
The costs we took out will result in annualized savings of about $70 million which is less than a one-year payback.
Now let's turn to our operating segments.
Entertainment revenue came in at $1.79 billion for the second quarter compared with $1.84 billion last year.
That's when we had that Criminal Minds sale.
Meanwhile network revenue which includes advertising and affiliate fees was up 4% for the quarter.
Entertainment operating income in the second quarter was $262 million compared with $341 million last year.
Part of this is due to our continued investment in original programming hours which were up nearly 20% from last year's second quarter.
In addition the results reflect a higher investment in digital distribution as we expand CBSN and CBS All Access.
Both are attracting a much younger audience.
The average age of a CBSN consumer is 40 years old and 70% of All Access subscribers are in the 18-49 demographic.
And for the $6 a month All Access subscribers they are taking advantage of all the additional programming available to them and they're watching twice as much online content as non-subscribers.
At our Cable Networks segment second quarter revenue was up 19% to $615 million helped by the pay-per-view event on Showtime.
As you heard the early adoption of our Showtime streaming service has been very strong and we expect to see a surge of subscriptions when we premiere our new seasons of Homeland and The Affair in the fall.
Second quarter cable operating income was up 3% to $220 million including the cost of the pay-per-view event and the launch of our over-the-top service which we expect will drive revenue growth in the quarters ahead.
In Publishing second quarter revenue came in at $199 million compared with $211 million last year due to the timing of strong title releases.
Digital represented 24% of total sales.
Bestselling titles for the quarter included The Wright Brothers by David McCullough and Finders Keepers by Stephen King.
Publishing operating income for the second quarter was up 9% to $25 million as a result of lower production and distribution costs.
In Local Broadcasting second quarter revenue of $654 million was down 2%.
Despite the difficult comparison to last year when we had midterm elections our TV stations were actually up 1%.
Radio was down 5% from last year when we had nine additional radio stations.
As far as advertising categories go entertainment and financial services were somewhat soft.
However auto which is our largest category and healthcare were both up nicely.
Local Broadcasting operating income for the quarter was $198 million compared with $215 million last year.
As I mentioned we've implemented restructuring activities that will improve the performance of our local businesses in the quarters ahead.
Turning to cash flow and our balance sheet.
Gree cash flow in the second quarter grew to $435 million up from $4 million last year and for the first half of 2015 free cash flow was $835 million up from $524 million in the first half of 2014.
Some of the increases were due to the timing of receipts related to the pay-per-view event.
We also ended the quarter with $320 million of cash on hand.
Our capital allocation strategy is to first and foremost reinvest in our businesses for growth.
At the same time the market is giving us an attractive opportunity to retire a significant number of shares.
During the second quarter we repurchased more than 13 million shares for nearly $800 million.
As of June 30 we had $3 billion remaining on our current buyback program.
As we've previously said we plan to complete this program sometime next year and we will do so while adhering to our target leverage ratio which we raised last quarter to 2.75 times.
Now let me tell you what we see ahead.
As Les said the demand in the scatter marketplace is picking up as we head into the third quarter and we see underlying network advertising improving.
In local we're obviously going to be coming up against some tougher comps during the second half of the year primarily from political.
However underlying local ad revenue is pacing to be even in the third quarter.
We also expect strong growth in affiliate and subscription fees with 10% of our retrans and 11% of our reverse comp footprint coming up for renewal during the rest of 2015.
And as we peek ahead at 2016 we are set up to start the year strongly with Super Bowl 50 and end the year strongly with the presidential elections and throughout the year we'll continue to see steady growth in affiliate and subscription fees.
As you heard we are now on track to hit $1 billion in retrans and reverse comp revenue in 2016 which is one year sooner than we first predicted.
And we also expect to exceed our $2 billion target by 2020.
So in summary we continue to position CBS for success by investing in global content and launching new distribution platforms.
These are new drivers of future earnings.
So from Showtime OTT to CBS All Access from international licensing to new streaming entrants and from retrans to reverse comp there are terrific growth opportunities before us and we have a lot to be excited about.
At the same time we're holding the line on costs and strengthening our financial position.
So we're confident we have the right strategy and continue to execute on it.
The future holds significant earnings upside for CBS and its shareholders and we look forward to capitalizing on it.
With that Tom let's open the line for questions.
Thank you sir.
Also in the interest of time please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
We will take our first question from Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Yes can you hear me? Yes.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Okay.
Yes my questions are around the NFL and your relationship there which obviously is quite beneficial particularly on the retrans side.
Can you talk about your appetite and sort of what kind of discipline you may be applying to a long-term Thursday Night deal assuming the NFL looks to do a longer-term deal after this extension with you? And in that fold can you talk about your expectation to include the NFL games in All Access? I think that would be obviously a really nice addition to the product if you can get those rights as well.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes Ben it's a good question.
Obviously we have a very long-term deal on Sunday.
We like that.
And we're in the second year of one-year deals and of course for the right price and we feel like we are currently paying the right price we would like to extend the Thursday Night package and we have been disciplined and frankly they have been a great partner.
The discussions about All Access are ongoing.
Obviously the NFL is now experimenting with putting their games online and with digital opportunities and we talk to them about it maybe once a week if not more.
We were there as recently as a few days ago and our relationship with the NFL couldn't be stronger.
And as I said earlier it's the first time somebody has had a Thursday package a Sunday package along with the Super Bowl.
So we are in a lot of discussion with them on a lot of fronts and all those things that you mentioned are on the table.
And just as a follow-up around programming how are you feeling about the summer strategy going forward? You've had a couple of years now where you have really leaned in with some investments around content that have been helped by some of your SVoD partners but are you thinking any differently about the go-forward strategy around the summer originals? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The strategy still works and Zoo is the highest-rated scripted programming of the summer and by the way the strategy of the original programming is based more on the afterlife.
In other words the deals that we have with Amazon and Netflix plus the huge international appetite for our shows so as I've said before we currently have the three dramas on the air.
They are profitable before we put them on the air.
So you can anticipate us having at least three dramas and continue with Big Brother which remains very profitable and keeps my wife employed.
So it's a very good thing.
Everybody wins.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Everybody wins exactly.
Great.
Thank you Ben.
Let's take the next question.
Our next question comes from Jessica Reif Cohen with BAML.
Thank you.
I have two questions so two topics.
On Showtime OTT it's obviously such exciting potential for CBS.
I am not sure I have ever heard you say how many subs you need to breakeven.
And can you just talk about I guess timing of upside and any plans for international because there's clearly an appetite for this kind of programming overseas.
Yes.
Jessica it's Joe.
I will take the first part of it.
Certainly as we said every 1 million subscribers equals $100 million of profit.
So it's not a whole lot of subscribers for us to breakeven.
So clearly that's not a metric we're even looking at.
We fully expect it to be incremental margin dollars and again we do think we're addressing those 10 million only broadband-only households as we're seeing those subs grow nicely and there's no erosion to the base business.
So we do think it's incremental.
Looking at international international the upside I think is great.
It starts with making sure we own the intellectual property.
And I think that was a strategy we put in place years ago to make sure we owned our shows and worldwide rights.
So obviously we can certainly export Showtime OTT internationally within certain windows but we use Bell Canada as another example of working with a local partner to basically have a Showtime over-the-top service and make the money that way.
So we're trying to be indifferent and being flexible to what the opportunity is but basically the fundamental theory is the content is working the brand is working and Showtime we have to think about as a global brand.
Exactly.
And then the second topic is advertising.
It's great that you guys did so well in the Upfront but there's so much change in the industry now.
So besides the movement towards C7 and hopefully measurement of devices soon I don't know if you have an opinion on that how do you see the currency changing and can you talk about your views of how important addressability will be and when? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Jessica obviously what you've asked is the question of the day is how much can we know and how good can Nielsen be? C7 is a step in the right direction.
Dynamic Ad Insertion is becoming much more visible to us which means that we are getting paid now not only for the first seven days or the first three days or whatever it may be but well beyond that.
I think Nielsen's making major strides in that area and there are other people who are entering the field so we are getting to the point where we're knowing more and more and data obviously becomes more and more important in our selling tools.
Our Internet guys and our national sales group are working hand-in-hand.
As I mentioned before it's the first time that most of the ads that are going to be on the Super Bowl are also going to be online at the same time.
And we are learning a lot and as you can see as you can read what Comcast is doing what DISH is doing is the addressability is absolutely becoming clearer and clearer and that only is good news for us.
The more they know the more we're going to be able to sell.
Thank you.
Great thank you Jessica.
Let's take the next question.
Our next question comes from David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
Okay.
Thank you.
Les you mentioned in your introductory remarks that you had achieved agreements with I think 75% of the affiliate base for CBS All Access.
And I wanted to know does that base that you have come up with that agreement for does that translate to being able to kind of negotiate and distribute on their behalf to a third-party then your OTT service like an Apple as well as just either your first-party All Access? And additionally can you give us a sub count for All Access? Second in an unrelated follow-up historically I think you needed 80 episodes to 100 episodes of a show to strip and syndicate on a linear basis but Elementary kind of changed that model on linear TV at closer to probably 60 episodes to 65 episodes.
So if we're doing our math right you should have a similar episode count by fall 2017 for CSI: Cyber NCIS: New Orleans Madam Secretary and Scorpion.
So is it realistic to think that the backlog for 2017 linear syndication should include those titles? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All right.
In terms of the first – our relations with our affiliates remains very strong and they are very much a part of All Access and the 75% is actually a rather low number.
It should be much higher than that.
We are basically going to have the entire country before too long or most of it.
And once again the thing that they appreciate greatly it's the first time they've been cut into a deal like this where there's an online deal there's an online service and they're going to share in our revenue stream.
Once again I want to reiterate the national service is available everywhere.
It's only the part that's the live linear stream is where we need all of them onboard and they are onboard.
The good news as well is as we talk about third-party services our deals with them will include our being able to negotiate directly and then make deals with our affiliates where they will be able to share in that.
And that's built up over a good partnership and obviously it's going to be beneficial to us financially and it's going to be beneficial to them financially.
Sub count on All Access we're not giving that out as I'm sure you know.
But needless to say we are very pleased with where we are right now.
It's going up considerably week-after-week and as I said when the fall season begins which we're really excited about and it's a month away we think that number is going to continue to rise and we're very excited about it.
And I will let Joe talk about 2017 and all our...
Yes David I think you're right.
I think again we sold Elementary up to three seasons about 66 episodes; so clearly there is a trend in the industry that we think it's actually positive for some of our franchises to get it into syndication sooner than four years.
So I think you're thinking about it right.
I think all the shows Les mentioned the six hits now again I wouldn't think about it just on CBS think about CW and Showtime as well.
So we are replenishing that pipeline that we can monetize probably in 2017.
I think that probably makes the most sense for us but if you recall a few years ago we had like five shows going into syndication in one year and it was all the fruits of the labor that we are planting right now so that's why we're very optimistic about our future.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Great.
Thanks David.
Let's take the next question.
Our next question comes from Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Hi thank you.
My questions are on the ad market which you mentioned is improving in the third quarter.
I think one of your peers this morning said the same thing.
Could you give us any more color in terms of really what's driving it? Is it the fact that there maybe is a lack of inventory in the marketplace because some of your peers may have been having to give up some make-goods or is it really does it have legs to it? Is it pricing? Is it demand? I guess any color you could give would be great.
Yes Alexia it's Joe.
Yes look it's definitely demand across the board.
Obviously we have inventory because you know that's why you don't sell out 100% of the Upfront because again you want to have that scatter available and we're taking advantage of it.
As Les said the price increases are double digits.
If I was just looking at a couple of categories auto and healthcare are two categories that are really spending here in the scatter.
So when you see big categories coming across and putting more dollars I think their buying habits may be changing over time but at the end of the day they're buying franchises the strength and stability that only a few broadcast companies really offer and we're the beneficiary of that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And once again the reason we're once again confident in our schedule.
We're confident that we will get a great percentage of the scatter and as we said earlier in the call people want to buy a little closer to the time when it goes on.
So that's why the amount of the upfront the volume was down a little bit.
But it's something that truly does not concern us one iota.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Alexia.
Let's take the next question.
Our next question comes from Michael Morris with Guggenheim Securities.
Thank you.
Good afternoon guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Mike.
Two topics.
Hi Les.
First my question is on programming spending in light of your earlier comments about growth in broadband just the growth in broadband-based demand right.
So I guess my question is this.
Showtime is at the higher price point and it seems like there is more flexibility on Showtime in terms of the type of content and the ability to give a show some time to grow.
When you think about fueling that business do you think about that as being sort of incremental spend that you want to put behind that? Or over time do you maybe start to reallocate budget between CBS and Showtime? And then I have a second question about pay-per-view.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I wouldn't say that.
You know what they are frankly in terms of programming what's changed about the marketplace is and we've mentioned it is that the back end is becoming as important as the front end.
So investing in more original programming for both CBS and Showtime offers so many more possibilities which is why that we have increased the number of originals we have on CBS and we are also increasing what's available on Showtime because we are able to monetize it.
Every time we order a new show we have an entire game plan so there is very little risk and the upside is pretty tremendous when you can – when I put on a show like NCIS: New Orleans three years from now I know I'm going to be talking about hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars in profit.
And for us the amount of original content is more important than the movies.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then on pay-per-view I'm curious about the economics of the fight.
It feels like Showtime does so much of the heavy lifting in terms of the production and securing the rights and yet obviously you share a lot of the economics with the traditional distribution ecosystem.
What would it take to get to a point where you can distribute that directly kind of eliminate the middleman and maybe participate more in the economics there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well on this fight Floyd Mayweather did better than CBS did.
That's all I got to say.
But you bring up a valid point.
And look for this fight since it was such a huge fight the economics with our traditional partners did change quite a bit.
Looking forward as you have digital assets that you own yourself you could look even further out at putting it directly to the consumer and we keep 100 cents of the dollar.
That is something that obviously is coming.
But we did fine on the Mayweather fight.
We made a sizable amount of money.
As I said not nearly what Floyd or Manny made but we did fine.
And the system the future looks better.
And you bring up a very good point.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Great thanks Mike.
Let's take another question please.
Our next question comes from Anthony DiClemente with Nomura.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
I have one for Les and one for Joe.
Les a lot of anxiety today in the marketplace around the bundle around the breaking apart of the traditional bundle.
You guys have the least exposure to the bundle.
So a subscriber leaves a traditional ecosystem and maybe you're agnostic.
Maybe you could pick them up on All Access as you mentioned in your remarks.
So just how do you feel about the bundle at this point as it relates to CBS? Is there a way you can sort of exploit that advantage given how nimble you are relative to your peers even more so or more creatively than you've done up until this point? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes I mean look you've made a valid point one that we've been saying for a long time.
As the world proceeds into the skinnier bundles the smaller bundles it does leave anxiety out there for a lot of companies.
We are a big proponent because guess what every skinny bundle deal that's out there and obviously we've made a few of them already the ecosystem gets validated towards he who has the most viewers gets paid the most money.
I know it's an odd concept for some of the cable companies but that's the way it should be.
We're sort of re-regulating what the system should be.
So anytime there's a new bundle that you hear out there you can assume that CBS is applauding it because we are going to get paid more than we get paid by the traditional MVPDs.
So we are one of the few companies that is very much in favor of it.
Our major brands are CBS and Showtime.
And as this world evolves and it is evolving we are ready for it.
We are ready for it so it should be greeted well.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks Les.
And then Joe I just wanted to talk about syndication within the Entertainment segment.
So you called out the tough comp on Criminal Minds in the 2Q.
Right.
Inc.</span></strong> Can you just give us anything on the back half on the licensing comps? And then broadly over the course of your annual budget the 2015 budget if you took CBS syndication and broke it up into SVoD versus traditional syndication can you just help us with can either or both of those grow versus last year given the tough comp quarters that we've seen so far? Thanks.
Yes look again obviously you guys know this and that it's all timing of when those shows are available.
So if I'm just looking at the back half of this year Elementary as we just heard on a previous question will be made available.
That deal is done so that will happen in the back half of this year.
So I mean last year we had it more going in into first cycle availabilities than we did this year.
That being said international is growing faster as well.
There's more players out there.
We continue to re-up our library portion.
And we never make excuses and we never budget or forecast to make less money than we did the previous year.
So our sales guys we think have a lot of content to sell and we expect them to do that and maximize the value.
But I can't predict when a deal happens and when it doesn't happen.
It'll be all timing of when the marketplace is.
But the good news is it's a very competitive marketplace and that bodes well when you have beachfront property.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks very much.
Great thanks Anthony.
Let's go to the next question.
We'll go next to Doug Mitchelson with UBS.
Oh thanks so much.
So look I think one was on the new $1 billion guide.
Does that include the benefit of potential new OTT services like Apple TV or is that based on what's signed so far? No Doug.
It's Joe.
It's just it's straight retrans reverse comp.
Forgot about that one.
I know you didn't want to give a number but CBS All Access seems from the data that I've seen to be doing surprisingly well.
I mean it seems like you're headed to reach 1 million subs within the first year.
I mean is that rational or is it too early? Why do you say surprisingly? We're not surprised.
No no Doug look again – well that's why we're – look again we're obviously you know we're playing to get millions of subscribers not hundreds of thousands.
I think again the good news for us is we're seeing that each and every day and we're doing that without the NFL content at $6 a month.
So again back to the skinny bundle back to the price point where we are.
We're looking at the marketplace saying our broadband offering was clearly consumers have an appetite for growing rapidly at the highest price point we have in the marketplace.
So you should assume we want to lean into that and continue to push on that but clearly we're not going to get into we hit 1 million this month or next month or whatever month it doesn't really matter.
I think the key is each and every day it's growing.
Yes I remember that when you put out the press release saying you hit 1 million subs.
So that leads to the big question; are the OTT services doing well enough? Even though it's early days that you're thinking about investing in more content specifically for those services? I know you mentioned more originals of course your bread and butter but short-form library super-fan content HBO talked about ramping its content and marketing investment for HBO NOW given how well that's doing so far.
How do you balance investing versus your desire to deliver earnings in the short-term to medium-term...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You know what? It's early days with these services as you know.
I mean Showtime OTT is a month old or you know so we're looking at everything.
And how do you distinguish yourselves how do you make it special as special as you can? So we're looking at those things as long as we remain contained and conservative about what we spend but we are a content company and we know how to do content.
And Doug I would just add to this look there's low-hanging fruit.
I think again our thesis is there's a demand out there that we don't have to invest more in content.
It's there the price point for the subs was such that they couldn't have access to Showtime and/or CBS.
So we're clearly as we both said on our remarks we're investing in the future that we spend $11 billion of cost each year and we do pullback on other areas and lean into other areas.
I mean obviously you saw us take out $70 million of cost in there.
That allows us to reinvest for growth and I think that's the key.
It's what we understand how to allocate capital and where to lean in and where to lean out.
Right.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Good.
Thank you Doug.
Let's go to the next question.
Next question comes from David Miller with Topeka Capital.
Yes hey guys.
Les just a question on the Super Bowl if I might; the general rap that I think the sell side and the buy side has on the Super Bowl every year no matter which network has it is that – it just looks great on your revenue line but just the sheer production cost of the game plus the incremental sports rights make it tough to make money.
Do you agree with that? And with these rates approaching $5 million per spot as you mentioned in your prepared remarks what opportunities are there for operating leverage in the game? And then I have a follow-up.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes David if there's a rap on it tell them we will take the Super Bowl every single year year in year out forever.
So you know what if the incremental doesn't outweigh the amount of money you get per spot what NBC got last year it is very very worth it.
You are going to see it in revenue and in profit in 2016 and we love having it.
We're very excited about having it.
There's no downside.
Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up; just during the Upfront season a lot of our media buyer guys seem to be pretty high on Code Black Limitless and Supergirl.
Those seem to be the three new series that everyone seems to be excited about in general.
Any others you want to call out in terms of what you're excited about once the fall season starts and any other expectations you're willing to share would be great.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we have five new shows and you mentioned the three dramas.
Those are the three dramas and they are all extraordinarily good and they're all extraordinarily different.
We have two comedies of which I'm excited about as well Life in Pieces and Angel from Hell.
So they've acknowledged the three and frankly the media buyers generally are attracted more to drama initially and there haven't been a lot of big comedies recently but we think we have a real good shot.
Once again we're not going to bat 1 000 but our batting average has been better than anybody's over the last decade so we're feeling pretty good but thank you buyers for the compliments.
Appreciate it.
Thanks very much.
Thank you David and next question please.
Next question comes from Jason Bazinet with Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Just a question for Mr.
Moonves.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> In the past you've been very vocal about your belief that broadcast will fare better than cable net advertising as more dollars go digitally.
And I suspect that's influenced in part by what happened over the last few decades as cable network advertising grew and broadcast held its own.
But I was just wondering if you could comment on the sort of the synthetic ability of these Internet properties to deliver massive reach? How do you think CBS stacks up against that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well as I said in my thesis which I think has been borne out is that broadcast reaches a mass audience and there are certain niche cable networks that are replaced by the Internet.
So it might be more effective in reaching them.
Once again the proof of purchase from the Internet is not yet there as strongly as it is on broadcast.
We fairly well know the results of it and you won't see a major advertiser.
You won't see in a major car company or a Procter &amp; Gamble; most industries will not veer away from broadcast.
Digital obviously is the brave new world and we're part of it but most digital advertising is actually off network product that you find digitally.
So that is a big big part of it.
And we still feel very bullish.
There's a reason year-after-year our CPMs go up and the broadcast business is in better shape than basic cable.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Jason.
And let's take another question please? We'll go next to Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
Thanks.
Marcie we lost you there.
Are you still there? Marcie? She has disconnected.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Why don't we take one more? Let's go to the last question here and close it out.
We will take our last question from Omar Sheikh with Credit Suisse.
Hi and thanks.
So I've just got a question about your content licensing business.
I wonder if you could just give us a sense of unit pricing trends in your content licensing business amongst your SVoD customers? So one of the arguments you're going to hear quite a lot is that some of your SVoD customers are trying to drive down pricing for the bundles of content that they buy from you and others.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of how you think about that and how we should think about the dynamics of your SVoD business growing over time? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes initially or obviously our initial deals with the SVoD companies incorporated a huge amount of library product.
And there were a huge amounts of money that took place exchanged hands over it; hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars and as the model evolved obviously they went into wanting more recent series on the air and they have put on a certain amount of original content but once again as I mentioned regarding our summer programming we have deals with Netflix and with Amazon to put them on a few days after we're on the air.
Our franchises also of which we have just sold CSI we've sold NCIS to the SVoD services bring in a huge amount of content.
Remember these are shows that had literally 200 episodes 300 episodes at a time plus the international SVoD marketplace is expanding all the time as I mentioned.
The big players are there and now the local players are there so our business with the SVoD services has evolved and it's different than it was before but it is still lucrative and it's still beneficial to us.
And are there any particular markets internationally that you'd highlight as being particularly attractive? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The marketplace – look the general marketplace in terms of Western Europe obviously is our biggest place; it's our biggest source.
The U.K.
Germany France; those companies do extraordinarily well and Canada remains obviously a major major place for us to do business.
So those are the major highlights.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you Omar and thank you everyone for joining us.
This concludes today's call.
Have a great evening.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the CBS Corporation Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Teleconference.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to the executive Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our third quarter 2015 earnings call.
Listening on the phone is Sumner Redstone our Executive Chairman; and joining us with today's remarks are Leslie Moonves President and CEO; and Joe Ianniello Chief Operating Officer.
Les and Joe will discuss the strategic and financial results of the company and then we'll open the call up to questions.
Please note that during today's conference call the third quarter 2015 results are compared to adjusted third quarter 2014 results.
And year-to-date results will be compared on an adjusted basis unless otherwise specified.
Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information related to this call can be found in our earnings release or on our website.
Also statements in this conference call related to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed in CBS Corporations' security filings.
A webcast of this call and earnings release related to today's presentation can be found in the Investor section of our website at cbscorporation.com.
And with that it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Les.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Adam and good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us once again.
As you've seen CBS has turned in a very strong third quarter building momentum toward a great finish to the year.
Operating income was up 1% to $753 million and EPS was up 19% to $0.88 marking the twenty-third consecutive quarter we've grown our EPS.
We are growing our profits and expanding our margins at the same time that we're investing in new premium content and direct-to-consumer platforms.
So as we grow in the short-term we're setting ourselves up to live long and prosper in the long term.
Yes we can achieve both.
I want to start today by discussing some key developments going on right now.
First advertising is coming back in a big way at CBS.
Underlying network advertising was up 8% in the third quarter with strong growth in primetime double-digit growth in sports and daytime and huge growth in late night which was up 42%.
Here in the fourth quarter the marketplace is looking very strong as well and we are in a unique position to take advantage of that thanks to the strength and stability of our number one lineup and the fact that we sold a bit less inventory during the Upfront.
So we now have more to sell in a very robust scatter marketplace which is a very good thing.
The next development has to do with the future of the bundle.
I think we're all seeing that the dire predictions of cord-cutting are overblown but the good news for CBS is no matter where distribution goes no matter how or where you want your content we are in a perfect position.
Within the current ecosystem of the traditional bundle we're on track to grow our retrans and reverse comp to north of $2 billion in annual revenue by 2020.
At the same time as distributors roll out their skinny bundles of far fewer channels we will always be part of these packages as well because of the strength of our content.
And as we've already proven in the deals we've done we will get paid even more per subscriber in a skinny bundle than we will in a traditional bundle.
In addition there will be more and more viewers who want the freedom to choose individual channels à la carte.
In these cases we're ready with CBS All Access and Showtime Over-the-Top where consumers pay $5.99 and $10.99 a month respectively at better economics to us.
By the way both of these services benefited significantly with the launch of new shows this fall.
CBS Access had its larger subscriber growth yet in September and just debuted on Apple TV two weeks ago.
Plus as most of you know by now just yesterday we announced that we're producing a new Star Trek television series that will be available exclusively on All Access in the United States and licensed across other platforms around the world.
We will debut a special premiere episode on the CBS Television Network with all subsequent episodes only available to All Access subscribers here in the U.S.
Star Trek is an unstoppable franchise and its auspices are tremendous and bona fide.
We signed Alex Kurtzman as the series Executive Producer.
Most notably Alex wrote two of the most recent Star Trek movies including the rebooted Star Trek and Star Trek Into Darkness.
He has also been responsible for the success of dozens of movies and TV series including The Transformers Amazing Spider-Man Scorpion and Limitless.
There will be more announcements in the coming months about the terrific creative people behind this series both in front and behind the camera.
So I'm confident this is going to be a world-class effort that will make all Star Trek fans very proud.
These are some of the most passionate fans in the world and we can see millions of them joining All Access where they can watch these new episodes wherever they want and whatever they want and on whatever device they want to use which is increasingly consistent with how younger viewers are watching our shows.
By the way All Access already has this on-demand functionality for every single episode of all five Star Trek television series that have been on the air to this point.
So super fans can begin watching these shows today and be caught up just in time for the new world premiere.
Our Star Trek initiative speaks to the fact that All Access is a major priority for us and we will look for additional opportunities to expand our programming on this platform going forward.
So however viewers choose to consume their content from the traditional bundle to the skinny bundle to individual ones chosen à la carte like All Access and Showtime OTT CBS is positioned to succeed.
Of course this success is dependent on one thing which happens to be the thing we do best delivering the premium content that viewers have to have.
It starts with the CBS Television Network where we have begun the new television season in excellent shape.
Supergirl was the best premiere of any new show on television in viewers and key demos and Life in Pieces is the number one new comedy.
Along with Limitless we now have launched three new successes this year on CBS.
This is in addition to the four new hits we launched on the network last year so we have a growing roster of successful new shows to build around for years to come.
We also still have television's number one comedy in The Big Bang Theory number one drama in NCIS which has led us to winning Premiere Week once again while doubling our margin of victory over a year ago.
We have won every single week since except this past week where there were five World Series games on in the same week.
And I will reiterate today that we will win the 2015-2016 television season as well.
Comprehensive measurement of our shows is very important to our success.
This is why we're encouraged that Nielsen has just launched its new platform total audience measurement program and why we have joined the industry in support of a combined Rentrak and comScore which will help expedite full measurement of our programming both nationally and locally.
Delayed viewing beyond the first day represents a significant opportunity that is just beginning to be monetized.
Our new series Limitless is a good example.
This show drew a very nice audience of nearly 10 million viewers when it premiered in September but that number grew to more than 17.5 million viewers when delayed viewing was counted over the next few weeks and that number continues to rise as we speak.
This phenomenon is happening across our schedule.
When you look at delayed viewing over 7 days CBS has 10 shows that gained more than 3 million viewers each and the truth is that when all viewing is taken into account CBS actually has a bigger audience today than it did 10 years ago.
We are currently monetizing many of these viewers but there is a lot more upside as measurement catches up with how people are watching our shows.
And by the way the viewers we're getting from these additional platforms are younger as well.
Also during the third quarter we began a new chapter in late night with the extraordinary debut of The Late Show with Stephen Colbert as well as the continued success of The Late Late Show with James Corden.
We are extremely pleased with the early returns from both of these shows including the significant addition of younger viewers who are watching across platforms throughout the day.
Full episode streams of Colbert are up 2230% over a year ago and Corden continues to build his online audience as well.
He's now surpassed 0.25 billion views on YouTube.
And once again because we own both of our late night franchises we're monetizing all of this online viewing.
At CBS News we're up across the board led by the strength of our flagship broadcast.
Year-over-year CBS News is up 6% CBS This Morning is up 9% and 60 MINUTES is up 15%.
Taken as a whole more people have watched CBS News this season than any other network news division.
CBS News is capitalizing on this momentum by building our new online platform CBSN.
As we do this we're attracting a whole new set of younger viewers.
The average CBSN viewer is under 40-years-old so not only are we bypassing the cost of cable news by going digital but we're also bypassing the demos as well.
And our CPMs at CBSN are twice what they are on air.
At CBS Sports ratings for Thursday Night Football are up 5% from a year ago and our Sunday package is up 9% bringing the biggest audience we've seen in 29 years.
We're also looking forward to the Super Bowl which will be broadcast on CBS just as it was for the very first time 50 years ago.
Super Bowl sales are going extremely well.
Not only are we getting record pricing that we're looking for but there are just a few units left to sell.
You can imagine what these last few spots will go for.
As I said we feel pretty good about our ad sales across the CBS Television Network as well.
This is because marketers are realizing there's no better medium to sell their products than broadcast television.
Yes digital is growing and we are benefiting from that through our CBS Interactive division but the growth is not coming at the expense of broadcast.
It's coming from print advertising and basic cable.
Broadcast has proven to have the best quality of impressions and level of engagement.
As advertisers continue to learn this our content will stand out even more as the best choice in a fragmented media landscape.
We were extremely pleased today with results of the major auto companies who advertise a huge amount with us.
Turning to Showtime we launched our new over-the-top service during the quarter and we're extremely excited about where it'll lead us as well.
Since the launch we've rolled the platform out across Apple Roku to Amazon Fire Google Chromecast and Android devices and we're already getting significant traction.
In particular and no surprise we saw a surge in sign-ups around last month's premiere of Homeland and The Affair.
And among our new subscribers we observed significant past season catch-up viewing in advance of the premiere of these two shows.
As we've said by bringing Showtime direct to the consumer we now have the ability to reach tens of millions of potential new subscribers in a way that we never could before.
And just like All Access now has Star Trek Showtime is set to welcome an extremely fervent fan base of its own when it premieres the new installment of Twin Peaks also in 2017.
In addition we are just beginning to license the entire Showtime brand internationally rather than show-by-show as we have done before.
Earlier this year we did this in Canada through a partnership with Bell Media.
We're now having conversations with other overseas distributors about using a similar model as we continue to grow Showtime's international licensing revenue.
We look forward to updating you on this in the quarters to come.
In Publishing Simon &amp; Schuster grew its revenues and profits during the quarter thanks to our ongoing strategy of signing the biggest authors in the business.
Just today we're releasing titles from Stephen King John Irving Isabel Allende and yes the one and only Donald Trump.
So just like we do in television we continue to fill the pipeline in Publishing as well.
In Local Broadcasting premium content is also driving sales at our TV stations which are benefiting from our number one schedule in primetime and our growth in late night.
Looking ahead both of our TV and radio stations are gearing up for the huge 2016 political season where the only thing is certain is that it will be another great year for advertising.
We are encouraging all 19 candidates from both parties to hang in there as long as they can.
In addition we are very aware of the lucrative valuations that are out there in terms of spectrum auction.
We are evaluating how we could best participate with some of our 13 non-CBS television stations while still providing our signal through other outlets.
It's clearly a terrific option to have.
So the biggest news in the quarter is that network advertising has swung back in a big way the way it always does and is now looking strong going forward as well.
In addition we're monetizing more and more delayed viewing of our shows with lots more upside as measurement advances.
And we have set ourselves up to grow subscription revenue no matter how viewers want to consume our content.
In short we're growing profits today while we're setting ourselves up for a very very bright future.
Looking ahead the future begins with a very healthy 2016.
Advertising will clearly be very strong we know that.
Anchored by Super Bowl 50 in the first quarter and political in the fourth retrans and reverse comp will exceed $1 billion next year which is a year ahead of the target we had previously given you and we will exceed our target of $2 billion by 2020.
Plus there is a very good chance that one or more major media or tech companies will launch a new skinny bundle next year leading to significant incremental subscription revenue for us.
And this is in addition to the continued growth of All Access and Showtime OTT.
We also have a growing roster of young hits across CBS Showtime and The CW to license into the syndication in SVOD marketplace.
This includes six new owned hits from 2014 and more on the way from this year.
Plus we feel very good about the January premiere of Showtime's Billions which we also own.
Our programming continues to be highly desirable in the SVOD world and so we are having discussions all the time about new ways to grow our streaming revenue.
In international the marketplace continues to explode so all of these shows are great global opportunities for us including Star Trek which has a massive fan base all around the world and beyond.
Across the company premium content will always be the center of our strategy.
No matter how rapidly the world continues to change we have positioned ourselves to benefit.
So we're confident that 2016 will be a terrific year for CBS and look forward to longer-term success as well.
9 With that I'll turn the call over to Joe.
Thanks Les.
Good afternoon everyone.
As you just heard we are very pleased with our third quarter results.
The strength of our must-have content is ensuring our success and leading to new opportunities.
As distribution platforms evolve and viewer habits continue to change we are positioned to benefit like no one else in our peer group from existing MVPD platforms to straight à la carte services like CBS All Access and Showtime Over-The-Top or anything in between no other content company has such a concentrated value in its offerings.
Plus as we invest in our future with new content and distribution initiatives we are posting EPS growth year after year quarter after quarter.
At the time we continue to steadily return our excess cash to our investors through share buyback and dividends.
So we're delivering strong results for our shareholders today and we're setting ourselves up for even stronger results in the future.
Now let me give you some details about our third quarter results.
Revenue for the quarter came in at $3.3 billion compared with $3.4 billion last year.
Reported advertising was down 4% due to fewer sporting events broadcast on the CBS Television Network and comping against the 2014 midterm elections which benefited our local businesses last year.
However underlying network advertising was up 8% for the quarter and if you want to look at it on a year-to-date basis it's up 3%.
And we see continued strength in scatter going into the fourth quarter.
Given the growth we've seen so far this year and the ongoing tailwinds into Q4 network advertising is poised for solid growth in 2015.
Content licensing and distribution was down 8% compared with 2014 when we benefited from the sales of Hawaii Five-0 Dexter and Californication.
As you know the timing of licensing sales varies from quarter to quarter.
We obviously derive a lot of benefit from owning more of our programming on CBS and Showtime and we have added to our pipeline in a meaningful way over the last two years which will drive growth in the future.
Affiliate and subscription fees were up 9% during the quarter driven by growth in retrans and reverse comp which were up 50%.
Year-to- date affiliate and subscription fees were up 16% and this revenue source will continue to be a strong growth driver as we reset our retrans and reverse comp yields to current fair market value as well as scale our new OTT initiatives.
Third quarter operating income of $753 million was up 1% driven by healthy gains in our high-margin affiliate and subscription fees and underlying network advertising revenue.
As a result our third quarter operating income margin expanded 100 basis points to 23% the highest it's been in two years even as we invested in more original programming and expanded our own distribution initiatives.
Net earnings from continuing operations grew 7% in Q3 to $426 million and as Les said EPS for the quarter came in at $0.88 up 19%.
And on a year-to-date basis EPS is up 7% to $2.39.
Now let's turn to our operating segments.
In Entertainment revenue for the third quarter grew 1% to $1.9 billion.
Network advertising revenues also grew 1% despite the timing of sporting events including two fewer NFL games and no U.S.
Open compared with last year's third quarter.
And to reiterate our underlying network advertising grew 8%.
Entertainment operating income of $339 million was up 12% in the third quarter and our operating income margin here expanded 200 basis points thanks to a greater share of high-margin revenue sources including strong growth in retrans.
Again we did this as we increased our investment in original programming hours which were up 20% from Q3 of 2014.
In Cable revenue came in at $526 million compared with $624 million last year when we had significant content licensing sales for Dexter and Californication as well as larger pay-per-view events.
As we continue to own more of our programming on Showtime the timing of syndication sales will fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter just as it does with our Entertainment segment.
However content licensing will continue to be a growing source of revenue as our Showtime offerings expand on a global basis.
In addition underlying Cable affiliate fees were up 2% in Q3 driven by growth in both rates and subs and we ended the quarter with nearly 23.5 million Showtime subscribers.
Cable operating income for the third quarter came in at $246 million and our operating margin expanded 4 points to 47%.
Looking at it on a year-to-date basis Cable operating income was $717 million and the margin was a solid 43%.
Turning to Publishing revenue in the third quarter grew 2% to $203 million driven by higher print book sales.
In addition digital sales represented 25% of total Publishing revenue for the quarter.
Publishing operating income in the quarter also grew 2% to $43 million and the operating income margin remained a healthy 21%.
In Local Broadcasting third quarter revenue came in at $638 million compared with $680 million last year.
TV and radio stations were down 7% and 6% respectively on a reported basis because of several non-comparable items including fewer sporting events and last year's midterm elections which collectively accounted for the entire decline in local.
As far as advertising categories go tech and telecom posted the biggest gains in the quarter.
Local Broadcasting operating income was $174 million during the third quarter and the operating income margin came in at a solid 27% thanks to the benefits of our cost-savings initiatives from last year which resulted in a 5% decline in operating expenses for Q3.
Turning to cash flow on our balance sheet; for the first 9 months of the year free cash flow of $546 million was up more than fourfold from 2014 driven by premiums paid on for last year's debt refinancing and the timing of syndication collections.
Also through September year-to-date we repurchased 41 million shares of our stock for $2.3 billion.
As of September 30 we had $2.5 billion remaining on our share buyback program which is more than 10% of our current market cap.
Going forward we will remain consistent in our approach to returning capital to shareholders and as we have previously said we expect to complete this program in 2015 as we continue to optimize our capital structure.
In addition the company issued $800 million of 4% senior notes in July and the proceeds were used for share buybacks and general corporate purposes.
Now let me give you a few observations of what we see ahead.
As Les said we are seeing a solid scatter marketplace and continued growth in underlying network advertising.
Q4 is typically our biggest advertising quarter so we expect a strong finish to 2015.
In Local this year's fourth quarter will be up against last year's midterm elections.
However non-political revenue in Local Broadcasting is accelerating from Q3 and pacing to be up low-single digits.
Looking ahead to 2016 in addition to the Super Bowl and political revenue advertising will also benefit from an additional NFL playoff game in Q1.
So the next 12 months of advertising revenue for us should be strong.
Retrans and reverse comp will continue to climb with particular strength on the reverse comp side where we have 16% of our footprint coming due next year and 46% due over the next three years.
For retrans we'll have 36% of our footprint coming up for renewal through the end of 2018.
So there's still a lot more growth to come as we make our way towards exceeding $1 billion next year and topping $2 billion in 2020.
In terms of content licensing we own about three quarters of our primetime schedule on CBS and about 80% of the original series on Showtime not to mention all the content we produce for The CW and other networks.
So as we sit here today we have more than 500 episodes of current hit shows such as Scorpion Jane the Virgin and Ray Donovan just to name a few that we have not yet monetized creating a strong pipeline of revenue for years to come.
And as Les said we are set up to grow no matter how the bundle changes.
In fact any move towards a skinny bundle or à la carte service will only reset the monetization of our content higher and as a result we will make more money sooner.
In addition as we continue to grow our direct-to-consumer initiatives we expect CBS All Access and Showtime Over-The-Top to be contributors to our operating income growth next year.
And on the cost side we will continue to invest rationally and take out expenses where appropriate.
So in summary first and foremost we are growing our business by investing in must-have content which we will continue to monetize in all sorts of ways.
Next we're also investing in evolving the distribution landscape with our broadband services so our content will be broadly distributed in all the ways consumers want it no matter what platform they choose.
At the same time we remain vigilant on containing our costs and all this positions us to continue to return capital to shareholders.
So we're building strong momentum as we finish 2015 and we have great confidence in our ability to grow our earnings in 2016 and beyond.
With that Tom let's open the line for questions.
And thank you sir.
We'll take our first question today from Ben Swinburne from Morgan Stanley.
Thank you.
Les I want to come back to All Access.
I'm wondering if you could share with us how many subscribers you have.
I'm guessing no but I thought I'd ask.
Second if there's any update on getting the NFL content on All Access? And then lastly maybe most interestingly can you talk about how you think about trading off licensing content to third parties Netflix Hulu et cetera to maybe moving more product onto All Access and making it exclusive on that platform because the Star Trek move is a bold one and makes that product much more interesting I think to the consumers.
So are you thinking about maybe changing how you – where you move content over time as you move stuff off the network? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
You're right.
Your guess is right; I will not divulge our subs but I will be happy to answer the other two questions.
Regarding the NFL obviously conversations are going on all the time.
Some of it involves Thursday Night; what goes forward obviously they put a game on Yahoo! last week which they were very pleased with the results so once again streaming becomes part of the equation now and part of the conversation and any conversations involving with streaming of our product would obviously involve streaming our product on our own site.
So there are conversations going on.
They are positive.
Nothing much new to report but I think we're hopeful that something will happen there.
Obviously with Star Trek a lot of conversations went into what we're going to do.
All Access is very important.
Once again we remain a good partner for Netflix and Hulu and Star Trek is sort of the family jewels.
It's a very important piece of business for us.
As we go forward we're looking to do original content on All Access and building up that platform.
But once again as we say Netflix is our friend and they're also our competitor.
They compete with Showtime and All Access will begin to put some original content and knowing the loyalty of the fan base of the Star Trek people we think this will boost it.
As one reporter said yesterday there's about a billion channels out there because of Star Trek people will know what All Access is all about.
So we find that to be significant and important but at the same time we value continuing our partnerships.
Thank you.
Thank you Ben.
Let's take the next question.
Jessica Reif Cohen with Bank of America.
Thank you.
A couple of questions.
Les you talked about advertising like in a lot of different ways.
I'm just wondering first of all what do you think the impact is from all the agency reviews? You mentioned some money coming back from print.
Do you think money will come back from digital? And what's driving scatter? So that's the advertising question.
You also talked about measurement separately but do you think advertisers will accept or are they accepting the kind of the Nielsen Rentrak comScore currency? How far are they willing – how far out are they willing to pay for it? Is that an acceptable currency? And then the final question is you also brought up the spectrum auctions.
What do you think the realistic timing is on that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> On what? I'm sorry? On the auctions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Got it.
All right you know what I'll answer the first and I'll let Joe answer the other two.
Obviously the second quarter came and the Upfront came and there was like questioning; gee the Upfront there isn't as much volume and we had said look we've been through this a lot and I think a lot of the reason there wasn't as much volume was a lot of agency reviews going on with major major clients.
And I think as normally happens when the Upfront may be down suddenly they got located with the appropriate agency and suddenly that helped to increase the scatter market.
The scatter market is remarkably strong.
It's the strongest we've seen it in many many years to the point where our sales guys are beating down the door to remove promo and put sales spots in there.
As we said football is going extremely well.
Late night's going well.
Primetime is well.
Every part of our company is doing well.
And I think clearly the agency reviews had something to do with that.
And clearly the sky was not falling.
In other words it wasn't moving to digital.
Obviously a lot's there but broadcast is stronger than ever.
And Jessica it's Joe on the measurement stuff look I mean the chair we sit in we focus on producing the best content.
All we want is all we're asking for in measurement companies we want to measure all the eyeballs.
And so we're very confident when you do that we're going to be the number one company.
So we're encouraging that.
So hopefully Nielsen does that with this total audience Rentrak and comScore as well.
So again as long as there's third parties doing that I think again the position we're in is we produce the best content so we're going to worry about that.
And then I do think though there is obviously there is consumption outside of that that hopefully we'll be able to capture.
As far as the spectrum auction goes obviously they laid out a timetable of the rules.
Our best guess is kind of the middle of 2016 we'll really kind of know a little bit more what we have.
I think people will be going in and discussing some values but we won't know anything really until the middle of 2016.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you Jessica.
Let's take the next question.
Next question comes from David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Les and Joe we from the outside have far less information than you guys do.
And we get these headlines on Live+7 Ratings or C+3 ratings if we can get them.
And it sort of feels like the monetization of your inventory is exceeding what we could sort of logically track from these rating trends.
So I guess my question is can you give us a sense of the magnitude to which you are monetizing non-linear non-C3 ratings today.
How much is like the online streaming business contributing to network advertising? And ultimately do you think that you are better off having that inventory count in the C3 ratings? Or do you like what you can do with it monetizing them in other ways where spot loads don't have to be identical and those kinds of things? Thanks.
Yes David.
It's Joe.
Look here's what I would say.
Certainly on the network side we sell C7 we sell C3.
So we are monetizing that.
Obviously online we monetize that as well.
The opportunity really the way see it is what is not being monetized.
So I think we are monetizing more than what you're reading about in the live rating.
And that's why Les has always said consistently is we don't make programming decisions looking at that data.
And nor – if you looked at ratings it doesn't correlate to revenue.
And I think that's a big misnomer.
You just heard us today we posted underlying up 8%.
And I think again if you would look at that and you say well underlying ratings aren't up 8% and so it's all coming from price.
And then we say no.
I said you got to look at it holistic.
So that's the good news.
But the better news is that there's still more to come.
We are not fully monetizing all of the consumption.
And I think again as these measurement systems evolve because the consumer habits have changed so rapidly that will correct itself and there's more to come.
Okay.
Thank you.
Great.
Thank you David.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Thank you.
Just drilling down a bit further on the network advertising comments that you'd made earlier.
I believe you have one more Thursday Night NFL game in the fourth quarter this year.
You've obviously talked about a very healthy scatter market tight inventory.
I guess this all just set up for an acceleration in advertising revenue growth from the 8% that you highlighted in Q3.
And then my follow question just on the NFL Thursday Night much better ratings this year.
Any color on the profitability of that franchise and your interest in sort of keeping that Thursday Night going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes I'll talk about the Thursday Night and Joe can comment on the advertising.
It's true.
We're done except for one game that we have in December which has the Packers and the Lions which should be a good draw for us and should help the fourth quarter.
Obviously we talk to the NFL lots about a lot of things; Sunday streaming Thursday Night.
We're very pleased with our ratings this year.
We got much better match ups.
They gave us a much better schedule and fortunately the games were a lot closer than they were last year.
And that's why the ratings are up significantly and advertising is up significantly.
So we will continue to talk to them about extending the franchise.
Obviously streaming will have a lot to do with it as well.
Alexia it's Joe.
In the fourth quarter obviously we don't give guidance but again and it's early in the fourth quarter but we said that the scatter marketplace and advertising is continuing so we're definitely seeing the price and it's coming – the demand is broad-based which is really good news but obviously we have two more months in the quarter so we'll see how everything plays out but we're feeling pretty good finishing the year.
And like we said in our prepared remarks I think there was a lot of questions on advertising.
As we sit here year-to-date up 3% again and it accelerating I think all things being equal you look at that and you say a pretty good year.
So we're confident that we can build on that going into 2016.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It was only a few months ago that people said oh my God advertising is down and the second quarter was tougher but the third quarter is extremely strong and as Joe said we don't give guidance but from everything we see the fourth quarter is going to be even stronger.
So we're very pleased with how it's trending.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Alexia.
Next question please Tom.
Our next question comes from Michael Morris with Guggenheim Securities.
Thanks.
Good afternoon guys.
A couple of questions back to All Access.
First the decision to move forward with the Star Trek project which is a pretty big project how much of your confidence in the investment in that was supported by behavior that you've already seen on All Access? Existing subscribers viewing either Star Trek or any content like that? And along those lines it is a big project.
It will take a little while to get ready.
Are there any smaller projects that would be incremental that you would consider between now and then specifically for All Access? And then finally Hulu recently announced – recently launched an ad-free option.
Would you guys consider an ad-free tier? How do you think about that? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Regarding Star Trek as I said earlier it is the family jewels.
We have known from our information that all the Star Trek series have done exceedingly well in streaming.
It doesn't come as a great surprise but it's the hippest it's the coolest even the ones that were done 30 years 40 years ago still resonate today and all the series have done extremely well in terms of streaming.
Added into that as I said earlier Star Trek is a huge international franchise so our international distribution guy is going crazy.
He can't wait to get out to the marketplace and sell that.
So right away we're going to be more than halfway home on the cost of the show just from international alone.
So the risk is rather small and seeing the track record we think it's going to be great and it's going to bring in a lot more subscribers and so we're really excited about it.
Regarding ad-free yes that's absolutely something that we're thinking about.
As we progress into it we're charging $5.99 right now for with ads and we've had discussions about how about if we do a $9.99 with no ads? And it's a very possible thing for the future.
And yes we are talking about what future projects what original development we might put on All Access but it's still very early.
Our main focus right now is Star Trek and we wanted to start with a bang so to speak and I think we have.
Thanks.
And anything with respect to the smaller projects what about anything outside of sort of the traditional long-form or full-form television? Any short-form content investment that could potentially make sense on that platform? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Nothing we're ready to talk about yet.
We're experimenting a lot and we're figuring it out.
Great.
Thanks Les.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Mike.
Thanks Mike.
Next question please.
We'll take our next question from Anthony DiClemente with Nomura.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Great.
Good afternoon.
One for Les and one for Joe.
Les I wanted to ask about the transition in leadership at CBS Entertainment from Nina to Glenn.
I wonder if that portends any changes – any creative changes at the television network.
I ask because if you take a step back you guys at CBS have more retrans and syndication money coming in than any of the Big Four networks.
So it would seem like you can afford to take more risks.
So wondering if now is the time for the CBS Network to take more creative risk.
And then I'll have a follow-up for Joe.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All right.
Look losing Nina was not a good thing.
She and I have worked together for 25 years and she's a wonderful executive.
This became a lot easier to take because I had Glenn Geller who was running current programming.
Now current programming is probably the most underrated part of the company because they are the ones after the show is on the air that sort of supervise all the existing episodes of all the shows and Glenn is known to all of our producers.
And he's known inside and outside of our group out in Los Angeles and he's a great creative executive.
You know what? We take shots when it's appropriate.
We put on Supergirl.
I think that surprised a lot of people which obviously skews a bit younger than we would normally skew and things of that nature.
Once again our bread-and-butter people say gee you have too many procedurals.
Well at a $2 billion profit for both CSI and NCIS I'll take boring any day of the week.
There are a lot of sexy shows that are really cool.
They get great reviews that fail.
So we are taking some chances.
We are experimenting a lot but I don't mind being known as the bread-and-butter network.
We win that way.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks Les.
And then Joe I'm sure you are aware of this but another media company today this morning made a decision to significantly increase their leverage target while remaining committed to investment-grade status with the ratings agency.
So I just wonder is that sort of move something that you would consider doing going up from your 2.75 times targeted that you've stated.
How high could your leverage ratio go while keeping CBS at investment grade? Thanks.
Thanks for the question.
Obviously I know who you're referring to.
I'm well aware of their announcement.
We're very comfortable with our leverage ratio.
We've had conversations as early as yesterday with our agency.
They're comfortable with our strategy.
First and foremost Anthony I think we've been consistent in this; we are investing in our business à la Star Trek and other franchises.
So the share buyback that we're going through is really optimizing our capital structure reducing our cost of capital.
And that has been our approach; that will continue to be our approach.
We see no reason to continue to push beyond that from a leverage standpoint just to buy back our shares.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Anthony.
Next question please.
We'll go next to John Janedis with Jefferies.
Thanks.
Les you talked about taking chances.
Can you talk a little bit more – maybe hit on this again about how you see the future of accessing CBS content? Meaning with All Access Star Trek and Showtime are you really moving towards some sort of integrated CBS OTT platform offering outside the traditional ecosystem with much higher ARPU? And is funded through international sales so as not to be margin dilutive? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Look I'll start by talking about our summer strategy a couple years ago where we figured out with SVOD and international our shows were basically paid for before we even began before we put them on the air.
We were able to put higher-priced programming on during the summer.
As we look to what's happening with All Access and once again without giving numbers we're very pleased with the results and we feel like original programming is the next way to distinguish ourselves.
We are going to roll that out fairly slowly.
Once again as you look towards Showtime OTT and CBS All Access will be there be an offering of them together? Very likely in the not-too-distant future to do that.
And we haven't determined yet how we would distinguish that by original programming.
At the moment as I said we took a very valuable piece of our own content and put it out there to sort of show what our future would be.
But once again CBS All Access and Showtime OTT are doing very well with their existing content.
Showtime obviously it's an easier way in.
On CBS and on Showtime OTT they both give people opportunity for catch-up which so far has been a major driver of that and now we'll give them something extra.
Got it.
And thanks for the comments on the delayed viewing and measurement.
Can you give us a timeline on when that rolls into and out of beta? And maybe at what point will there be a visible impact on network ad growth? Look John it's Joe.
The sooner the better really.
We're pushing this and we hope the entire industry pushes it but obviously the next really big wave is next year's Upfront.
And we're going to have to keep pushing that with dynamic ad insertion as it continues to scale.
So we wish it was sooner but I think again it is a sizable opportunity for us.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
Next question please.
We'll go next to David Miller with Topeka Capital Markets.
Yes.
Hey guys.
Les and then Joe if you want to chime in.
Wouldn't it be fair to say that for the next five quarters advertising is definitely going to grow year-over-year at the very least low if not mid-single digits? I mean you're going to have that AFC Wild Card playoff game back in Q1.
You're going to have the Super Bowl you will have the original programming that you just talked about you get – correct me if I'm wrong the extra Sunday football doubleheader game in Q3 of next year.
Then of course you will have the political angle.
So wouldn't one of the messages here be that no one really has to worry about advertising contracting over the next five quarters? It's going to grow for the next five quarters low-to-mid single-digits at the very least correct? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well David as Joe said we don't give projections we don't do that but we're feeling pretty good about your theory.
I wouldn't dispute any of those facts that you gave but we're sitting here looking forward and we're feeling pretty darn good about what we see.
We know what the Super Bowl's going to bring in already we're fairly confident political's going to be huge you're right about the extra AFC Championship games and the playoff games.
In addition we have more and more programming.
We will have three – we will have Zoo plus two more originals in the summer.
So forward-thinking without forward-thinking is pretty good.
So David thanks for writing our prepared remarks for next quarter.
It's going to be very helpful we'll go back to this.
Always happy to help.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks David.
Next question please.
Next question comes from Doug Mitchelson with UBS.
Thanks so much guys.
A couple of questions.
One; Les you talked about differentiating your OTT services in a world heading towards à la carte or slim bundles.
When you consider where the world is going would there be a benefit to greater scale? I know you are strategically complete but a bigger library more current production greater breadth of genres? Does any of that have any appeal to you over time as you think about expanding these OTT services? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You mean are we looking to acquire anybody? Look we love – Doug you know we love content.
We really do and we have obviously with Showtime CBS CW Showtime OTT CBS All Access we have room for content.
Having said that it would have to be a great opportunity for us.
We've been cautious about doing that we are a content company we believe the world can have more content we don't believe the guy who says oh there's too much content.
There never can be too much content and we want more of it.
Right now we're fully equipped to produce a lot of shows.
We have north of 30 shows ourselves in production but if there's a great opportunity we'd certainly jump on it.
And I just wanted to follow up something you said I think in your prepared remarks.
One or more major media or tech companies will launch a skinny bundle next year and I think you were talking about over-the-top.
Why do you think that hasn't happened so far? There was certainly a lot of buzz about it this year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well you know what number one these things do take time to hatch.
I know in the new world of technology everybody expects things to happen right away.
Verizon has the service that's out there Sony has the service that's out there obviously DISH has the service that's out there.
Comcast is fooling around with ideas around the skinny bundle so is Time Warner Cable.
So I think as time progresses I think you'll see much more activity or they'll skip right to à la carte in which case we'll do better either way.
But I think there's no question that there's going to be a change from the 180-channel universe that people will want more specificity on what they're watching.
Thanks so much gentlemen.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you Doug.
Next question please.
We'll go next to Laura Martin with Needham.
Hi guys.
Two questions.
One on – one of the big surprises we've seen from both HBO Now and from WWE over-the-top is the huge percent of viewing of library.
About 70% is coming from library and less from sort of live or new programming.
And I'm wondering if you could share some of the surprises from your over-the-top two over-the-top channels and whether that's true of yours.
And then the second thing Les I think you are arguably the best living programming executive for television.
And what we're getting is a new smartphone global platform that has shorter windows of time and also personalized allows personalized content.
So I'm interested as you as a programmer who has traditionally done long-form how are you thinking about this sort of parallel ecosystem on the smartphone that's developing? And is CBS going to play in either shorter form or also more personalized content going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All right.
Joe why don't you answer the first and I'll do the second.
Yeah here's what we're seeing Laura.
We're seeing they're absolutely catching up on the library stuff.
So that has tremendous value.
On the CBS side it's definitely a lot of value in the current season so that's catch-up so that drove into the new season.
And they're watching twice as much content.
So when they come in they kind of like what they have so those are the super fans that we're really getting and we're feeling that there's an appetite out there – an on-demand world around their time.
So we're giving them kind of choice and convenience and that really seems to be resonating as the early sign.
So as we continue to roll out more and more content I think that will build.
What we're going to look at now is we're going to watch the Star Trek fans and going to see the usage go up over the next several months as they kind of just re-acclimate themselves with the franchise so we are definitely seeing that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And regarding content for the smartphone it's a very good question that we are wrestling with.
Obviously with news and sports it's fairly easy to put together packages of smaller shorter-length content.
We can do excerpts from our football game and the headline news which we are currently doing online as we speak.
In addition our late night guys lend themselves to smaller content putting on the Colbert monologue and the Corden karaoke Carpool Karaoke which is very successful.
And then you look at the Entertainment content; what can we do? Obviously Disney made a big investment in Maker Studio.
We are doing that on a smaller scale internally where we're exploring shorter forms of content where an entire series will be done in 60 minutes.
In other words 12 five-minute episodes and that right now is sort of in the early planning stages and we've got to see how effective that is.
But it certainly is something we are looking at for the future and it is becoming an important worldwide piece of content.
Very helpful.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you Laura.
Next question? We'll go next to Omar Sheikh with Credit Suisse.
Good afternoon guys.
Just a couple questions from me.
First of all Joe I think earlier you mentioned that...
Hey Omar can you speak up a little bit? We can't hear you buddy.
Sure yes.
Okay.
Joe earlier I think you mentioned in your prepared remarks that you said that CBS All Access and Showtime would contribute to operating income in 2016.
Just wonder whether you could confirm that's what you said and maybe if you could help us understand what sort of content we should think about next year.
Sure.
I did say that and I can confirm that and the reason being Omar is the fixed cost space is now really laid.
That was a 2015 investment that you saw this year and so now as we drive subs we anticipate that incremental revenue to fall to the bottom line.
So that's the way we're anticipating it.
And when you think about things like Star Trek we're able to do that even though that's a 2017 event because the international demand as I said is so big the net investment to us is relatively small.
So we're feeling pretty good about that.
So we are saying yes it will help our operating income growth next year.
Okay great.
That's clear.
And just a second question was on content and licensing.
Just thinking about the bucket the close to $3 billion bucket in Entertainment.
Obviously you don't have – you won't have the Elementary revenues next year in 2016 but you mentioned that there were – there's 500 episodes that you are not yet monetizing.
I just wonder whether you could help us understand how you're thinking about whether or not you are going to fill that $200 million gap next year with some of the content that you are monetizing.
Or should we just assume that $3 billion bucket is going to be down year on year in 2016 versus 2015? Thanks.
We never assume anything is down Omar because again we have a deep library what it is and as well as the international marketplace is growing.
So yes we won't have Elementary to sell but we do have again all of those other episodes so we can't sit here and say we're going to sell and force a sale.
The marketplace really dictates when we sell something based on the demand.
What I can tell you is obviously I would tell you today we received a lot of calls about Star Trek and our sales guys said that was terrific.
That's not until 2017 but we've got a lot of other stuff to talk about.
So there's always a conversation going on so that's why we never budget anything to go down.
And so we understand the comp and this year we had sold – last year we sold Hawaii Five-0 Dexter and Californication.
So okay but that's a good thing for us to do and we're replenishing the pipeline each and every year.
So I don't look at when it hits in a quarter.
I just look at are we replenishing the pipeline and that's really the color we try to provide to you guys.
Great that's clear.
And just to be clear was all of Elementary booked in Q3? Or is there some to come in Q4? Yeah look most of it I don't know that Omar the details.
But most of it is in Q3.
Okay.
That's kind.
Thank you.
Thank you Omar.
Let's take one final question please.
Yes sir and that final question comes from Vijay Jayant with Evercore.
Thanks.
I have two larger picture questions.
First I think the FCC voted to review retransmission negotiations between pay TV operators and broadcasters and sort of wants to get involved.
Can you give us what your thoughts are on how that sort of plays out? And second now that you have your own platforms can you just talk about changes in programming costs and supply of content for kind of projects you want to do going forward? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Regarding the retrans actually the FCC just came out with a very positive ruling in our favor which basically said there had been some talk about being able to bring in signals from outside stations.
Now the head of the FCC said he's now removed that.
So there's a clear path now for all retrans and reverse comp deals to go through without any governmental interference.
So that's definitely a positive for us.
Regarding the types of content that we do look between Showtime CBS The CW first-run syndication we do all sorts of different types of programming from The Price is Right to Judge Judy to The Good Wife to Homeland and Ray Donovan.
And as you look towards obviously what we're going to put over-the-top we've announced Star Trek is our first venture there.
During the summer on CBS we've done some more science fiction.
We will see what the public wants.
But as you can see we are experts at producing all sorts of content for all sorts of people and all sorts of demographics.
And we've succeeded on every single level.
So we intend to continue doing that no matter what the platform is.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Thank you Vijay and thank you everyone for joining us tonight.
This concludes today's call.
Have a good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the CBS Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Teleconference.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to the Executive Vice President of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Gwen.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our fourth-quarter and full-year 2015 earnings call.
Listening on the phone is our Chairman Emeritus Sumner Redstone.
And joining us with today's remarks are our recently elected Chairman Leslie Moonves who also remains CEO; and our Chief Operating Officer Joe Ianniello.
Les and Joe will discuss the strategic and financial results of the Company and we will then open the call up to questions.
Please note that during today's conference call the full-year and fourth-quarter results are discussed on an adjusted basis unless otherwise specified.
Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information related to this call can be found in our earnings release or on our Web site.
Also statements in this conference call related to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed in CBS Corporation's news releases and securities filings.
A webcast of this call and the earnings release related to today's presentation can be found on the investor section of our Web site at cbscorporation.com.
And with that it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Les.
Thank you Adam and good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us once again.
First last week as you heard I was elected Chairman of this great Company.
I want to start today by thanking Sumner by thanking our Vice Chair Shari Redstone and our Board of Directors for this great vote of confidence.
It is indeed an honor to be the Chairman of CBS.
I also want to say right up front that I couldn't be more pleased and encouraged about the continued strength of the CBS Corporation.
Our assets are performing extremely well and they are set up for a terrific future.
I know you've been sorting through a lot of earnings analysis this week and when you look at CBS you'll see that we have a unique and compelling story.
So now let's get to the results.
I'm extremely pleased to tell you that we delivered a terrific fourth quarter.
We posted our best results of 2015 and built on the momentum that we began to see in Q3.
Fourth-quarter revenue was up 6% to $3.9 billion the highest quarter in the history of CBS.
Operating income was also up 6% to $747 million and was a fourth-quarter record.
And EPS was up 19% to $0.92 again the best EPS we've ever achieved.
The good news is these strong fourth-quarter results are serving as a springboard for what is going to be an outstanding 2016.
In the year ahead we are set for broad-based strength across all of our revenue sources.
First advertising is as robust as we've seen in a long time.
Scatter pricing is way up over last year's upfront a fact that will be fresh in the mind of buyers as they approach this year's upfront in just a few months.
This bodes very well for us and we expect significant increases.
On top of that as you know we just had the Super Bowl here in the first quarter the third highest-rated broadcast in the history of television.
And we have an extraordinarily Grammy show coming up this Monday.
And we will obviously benefit greatly from the presidential election which will be extremely competitive for quite a while.
This will give us a huge lift of political advertising to the third and especially the fourth quarters.
Next 2016 will be a landmark year in terms of re-trans and reverse comp.
Pricing has increased even faster than we anticipated meaning we will pass $1 billion in revenue this year well ahead of our previous outlook.
And we are confident we will exceed $2 billion in re-trans and reverse comp by 2020.
2016 will also be the year that our Over-The-Top subscription services began to make a positive impact on our financial performance.
Both CBS All Access and Showtime OTT continued to pace ahead of our expectations including the most All Access sign-ups we've ever had this past Sunday with many more to come next week thanks to the Grammys.
These new subs are bringing in younger audiences at economics that are much better for us.
In addition the response to our upcoming highly anticipated new Star Trek series which will be seen only on All Access except for the first episode has been tremendous.
And we are now looking at the possibility of utilizing CBS Studios to create additional exclusive programming for All Access.
So stay tuned for more on that and for updates about Showtime OTT as well.
Next 2016 will be a game-changing year for us internationally.
Most significantly our strategy of licensing the entire Showtime brand overseas has taken off.
What started with a groundbreaking deal with Bell Media in Canada a year ago has expanded to the UK Ireland Germany Austria Italy through a huge deal with Sky and to Australia through a lucrative deal with Stan and there are more of these to come.
In addition to Showtime demand for our CBS content has never been stronger around the world.
For the first time we now have a financially substantial deal in China to license our CBS and Showtime programming.
So from advertising to retrans and reverse comp to Over-The-Top to international licensing 2016 is poised to be a banner year for the CBS Corporation.
As you know what makes us so successful is the strength of our content.
And it all starts with the CBS Television Network where we are number-one this season in all key demographics.
Yes 18 to 49 25 to 54 viewers and households -- CBS is number-one across the board with a little help from the Super Bowl.
Across the entire multi-platform media landscape CBS has the most watched content in the business.
This includes the number-one comedy Big Bang Theory and the number-one drama NCIS.
Both of these shows are watched by an average of more than 20 million people week after week.
No other network has two series that reach anywhere near that kind of audience.
The breadth of our programming is also key to our success.
We are number-one every single night of the week this season with five of the top 10 shows on television.
And when you count all of our viewers across platforms CBS is up 6% from where it was 15 years ago.
So we have steady broad-based success at the network and there's no one better at aggregating a mass audience.
As we told you and as you know CBS just aired the biggest television event of them all Super Bowl 50.
As expected the game drew a massive audience.
On average throughout the night we had 112 million viewers with millions more watching online and we monetized them all.
As a result we significantly exceeded our financial targets which once again will be a big boost to our first quarter.
In fact taken together with the Mayweather-Pacquiao fight last May we're now pretty certain that CBS has had the two biggest revenue days in the history of media.
This past Sunday was also very special for us because CBS aired the very first Super Bowl on January 15 1967.
Clearly the game has come a long way since then.
In fact a 60-second spot during that first game went for $85 000.
This year that same 60 seconds costs $10 million.
Back in 1967 the number-one scripted show on television was The Andy Griffith Show on CBS.
And today the number-one scripted show on television is NCIS also on CBS.
Some things I guess never change.
In addition we announced last week that we have retained the rights to Thursday Night Football for the next two years with five games per year in the first half of the season.
We think this is the right amount of games at the right value at the right time of the year to kick off our schedule this fall.
Meanwhile the Super Bowl was also a terrific lead-in for Sunday night special broadcasts of The Late Show with Stephen Colbert and The Late Late Show with James Corden each of which had by far the biggest audiences they've ever had that night.
Both of these shows continue to post big gains in ad revenues up double digits year-over-year.
The Late Show with Stephen Colbert is the only late-night shown in its time period to grow in viewers and key demos from a year ago.
And as the election nears there is no one on late night that stands to capitalize on the opportunities from the race more than Stephen.
In addition The Late Late Show with James Corden has become a social media sensation.
At this point every Carpool Karaoke segment he posts is a viral hit.
The one he did last month with Adele is now approaching 70 million streams the most watched YouTube clip ever by a late-night host.
And since we now own both of these late-night shows we can monetize all of this online viewing as well a number that keeps getting bigger and bigger every week.
Another area where we are seeing growth across platforms is at CBS News.
Our flagship newscasts are growing viewers faster than any other network.
CBS This Morning is attracting the biggest morning audience we've had in 28 years.
The show is averaging 1 million more viewers than it did when we launched our new format four years ago making it more profitable every single year with lots of upside in this lucrative time period.
The CBS Evening News is also on a roll.
During the quarter the show delivered its largest audience in nine years.
Plus on the weekends we have the number-one morning news program with CBS Sunday Morning; the number-one public affairs show with Face the Nation; and of course 60 Minutes the number-one news program in all of television and of all time and a top 10 program nearly every single week.
This includes last month's episode where Charlie Rose interviewed Sean Penn and brought in well more than 20 million viewers leading to the largest non-sports audience for a single broadcast this season.
As we grow our news viewers on air we're also growing them online.
CBSN our digital news network has attracted more viewers every single quarter since we launched in November of 2014.
During the fourth quarter we had nearly twice as many streams as we had in the third.
And engagement levels are very high which is important to advertisers with the average viewing session now exceeding 40 minutes.
Plus these new viewers are 20 years younger than the ones on broadcast or cable news.
Clearly this is where the future of news is going to be and we are going to be there.
Turning to cable Showtime is doing spectacularly well both creatively and in sub growth too.
Our new series Billions is off to a terrific start and I'm guessing many of you are contributing to that success.
The premier of Billions was the best-ever launch for a freshman Showtime series and ratings have gone up dramatically each week since then.
This is a genuine hit.
And because of that we've already announced that the show has been picked up for a second season.
Once again we own 100% of Billions which has a very nice ring to it.
Billions is the latest in an incredibly strong line-up of Showtime hits with more to come including the highly anticipated return of Twin Peaks which will debut next year.
So from Homeland to The Affair to Ray Donovan to Masters of Sex to Shameless to Billions to Twin Peaks we have a murderer's row of original programming on Showtime.
And each hit we launch is bringing a lift to Showtime's OTT service which is growing in subscribers month after month.
For example when we premiered the most recent seasons of The Affair and Homeland in the fall digital subs more than doubled.
And now Billions is providing yet another surge.
Growing OTT subs remains a top priority at Showtime and represents a tremendous financial opportunity for us.
At Simon &amp; Schuster we turned in an extremely strong quarter also thanks to the strength of our premium content.
For the year we had 249 New York Times bestsellers with 32 reaching number one.
And in 2016 we will be putting out new titles by some of the biggest names in publishing and entertainment including Stephen King and Amy Schumer.
And as we announced today we are very excited to have the new Born to Run book by Bruce Springsteen which we think will be the biggest title of the year.
It's good to have The Boss at CBS.
Our big-ticket content is also the key to our success at our local TV stations.
Ad rates on the Super Bowl Sunday were up 45% from when we last had the game three years ago.
And local sales for the Grammys on Monday are pacing to be up in the teens compared to last year.
And of course we are preparing what looks to be a record year in terms of political advertising.
The crowd of candidates remains large and there's a lot of uncertainty which is just the way we like it.
Once again based on Iowa and New Hampshire this race is going on for a long long time.
And in addition to our TV stations we also look forward to a lift from political dollars in radio this fall as well.
As others in the industry have done we have adjusted the book value of our radio business.
This is an accounting move that doesn't limit our belief in the business as a high-margin vehicle that throws off a lot of cash for our shareholders.
Also in our local broadcasting segment we have filed to have some of our television stations participate in the upcoming spectrum auction.
It's a compelling option to have and could serve as a lucrative source of added cash for us down the road.
So our fourth-quarter and 2015 results were terrific but what we're really excited about is the future.
What others see as challenges we see as opportunities.
This is because CBS is unique in its standing as a media company that is poised to succeed no matter how the world changes.
For eight years running now we have had more top 20 shows than any other media outlet regardless of platforms.
Add to that our major sports packages.
Also live events like this Monday's Grammys and the millions and millions of viewers we have across our other day parts it becomes clear that CBS has to be part of any viable distribution package.
In the 180-channel traditional bundle we will be there.
In the skinny bundle of 15 channels we will be there too and for broadband-only homes we will be there with All Access and Showtime OTT.
So we have vast headroom to grow in the current ecosystem and we have even bigger growth opportunities in an unbundled universe as well.
Once again I'm extremely pleased that we had an outstanding fourth quarter and across the corporation and I'm even more excited that we are poised to have a phenomenal 2016.
As always we appreciate your support.
And with that I'll turn it over to Joe.
Thanks Les and good afternoon everyone.
As you heard CBS capped off 2015 with a record fourth quarter and we're building off that strength here in 2016.
We are clearly firing on all cylinders.
Advertising continues to benefit from a strong scatter marketplace.
Re-trans and reverse comp are set to hit $1 billion in revenue.
International licensing has surpassed $1.5 billion and continues to grow.
And our Over-The-Top services are expanding rapidly.
We continue to set ourselves up for the future by investing in premium content and in our own distribution services.
So as Les said we are poised to succeed no matter how viewers choose to consume their content.
Now let me give you some more details about our fourth quarter results.
Revenue for the quarter was up 6% to an all-time high of $3.9 billion and all three of our major revenue sources grew nicely.
During the quarter advertising was up 1% despite comping against strong local political advertising from 2014.
Network advertising led the way and grew 8% during the quarter and gained momentum from the third quarter.
And on a full-year basis underlying network advertising was up 4%.
Affiliate and subscription fee revenue was up 13% for the fourth quarter as retrans and reverse comp continues to grow with each new deal that we do.
And content licensing and distribution was up 16% driven by our new deals to license our Showtime programming internationally which once again underscores the strength of our strategy to own more of our content across our networks and monetize it globally.
We also turned in operating income that grew 6% to $747 million a fourth-quarter record.
And we achieved that increase even as we produced 14% more original programming hours at CBS Showtime and The CW.
Once again this investment in content sets us up for bigger monetization opportunities in the future.
In addition net earnings from continuing operations of $436 million was up 8% in the fourth quarter.
And EPS was up 19% to $0.92 another all-time high marking our 24th consecutive quarter of EPS growth.
In terms of our results for the quarter our EPS was adjusted to exclude three items to better reflect the performance of our business.
They include an after-tax restructuring charge of $16 million which will have a short 12-month payback to it; a non-cash impairment charge of $297 million net of tax to reduce the book value of our local radio group; and an after-tax gain of $128 million on the sale of an interactive business in China.
Now let's turn to our operating segments.
In entertainment fourth-quarter revenue of $2.5 billion was up 9%? And just like our total Company results we posted strong growth across our key revenue sources here as well.
As I mentioned network advertising grew 8%.
Retrans and reverse comp was up a strong 44% and content licensing increased 7%.
Entertainment operating income for the fourth quarter came in at $347 million up 37% due to strong growth in our high-margin revenue streams.
As a result our operating income margin expanded 300 basis points.
At our cable network segment fourth-quarter revenue grew 13% to $562 million driven by Showtime's new international licensing deal which covers five countries across Europe.
As we continue to do more of these deals we are creating guaranteed revenue streams that will benefit Showtime for years to come.
In addition we are also growing in the U.S.
where our Showtime subs reached an all-time high at the end of 2015 of just under 24 million.
Our fourth-quarter cable operating income came in at $228 million compared with $241 million in Q4 of 2014 primarily due to the mix of titles sold and the benefit of the Bell Media deal from a year ago.
As we have said consistently margins should be looked at on a full-year basis.
For 2015 our margin here came in at 42%.
And looking ahead to 2016 we expect our operating margins to expand at our cable network segment.
In publishing fourth-quarter revenue of $233 million was up 8% as a result of our strong titles demonstrating that this segment too is driven by good content.
In addition as more consumers are listening to audio books on their mobile devices we are seeing strong sales in digital audio which was up 35% during the quarter.
Publishing operating income for the fourth quarter grew 36% to $34 million and the operating income margin expanded 3 points to 15%.
Looking ahead to 2016 we expect to grow our operating margin here by strong title releases led by the Bruce Springsteen book Les just mentioned.
In local broadcasting fourth-quarter revenue came in at $719 million compared with $785 million in the prior period when we had the mid-term elections.
However non-political revenue grew 1% which is in line with what we told you on our last call.
Telecom food and beverage and entertainment were the best-performing categories during the quarter.
Local broadcasting operating income for the fourth quarter was $232 million compared with $292 million a year ago.
Our local broadcasting margin came in at 32%.
And we expect our margin to expand in 2016 as a result of the cost savings initiatives we have been implementing as well as political advertising.
Turning to cash flow and our balance sheet.
For all of 2015 free cash flow was $1.2 billion up from $1 billion in 2014.
We ended 2015 with $323 million of cash on hand and gross debt of $8.4 billion which yields a prudent 2.7 times leverage ratio.
Also for the year we repurchased nearly 52 million shares of our stock for $2.8 billion.
We have $2 billion remaining on our share buyback program which we expect to complete in 2016.
Returning value to our shareholders remains a key priority for us.
Now let me give you a few observations of what we see ahead.
For advertising the momentum that started in Q3 of 2015 continues to build here in Q1 of 2016.
At the network we expect a very strong first quarter driven by an extra NFL playoff game Super Bowl 50 and the Grammys as well as growth in the scatter marketplace which continues to benefit us because of the inventory we held back from last year's up fronts.
Local broadcasting will also get a lift from the Super Bowl and is pacing to be up high-single-digits in the first quarter.
In content licensing we continue to replenish the pipeline.
We have lots of young series across our networks that we have not yet monetized domestically including NCIS: New Orleans Scorpion and Limitless from CBS as well as Ray Donovan The Affair and Billions from Showtime.
So with so much choice out there only the best content will stand out and we have the content that will deliver that.
Also as you've heard we expect to surpass $1 billion in re-trans and reverse comp this year.
Up until this point much of our growth in this category has been driven from re-trans.
But reverse comp is now playing a very big role in this growth story as we make our way towards exceeding $2 billion in re-trans and reverse comp by 2020.
So in summary we just completed a very strong quarter and we are poised for a record-setting 2016.
Looking beyond that investing in our future as a content company remains of the best thing we can do for our shareholders.
Our ability to offer a concentrated value proposition with the best in news sports and entertainment is what makes CBS stand out from the rest.
It's the reason we can thrive in a traditional bundled universe and why we are positioned to succeed in an unbundled a la carte world as well.
And the global opportunities are huge.
So we feel very good about where we're headed and we look forward to discussing our results with you on our next call in early May.
With that operator we can open the line for questions? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
I have two questions unrelated: I wanted to ask about the outlook for licensing.
Joe you mentioned some of the younger shows on the network.
And as you guys know there's a lot of question in the marketplace about the demand in traditional off-net and more broadly around licensing.
So can you give us a sense of your expectation around timing of monetization for those big CBS shows? And I don't know if you'd be willing to talk about it but would you be able to say you think you can grow licensing in 2016 particularly when you think about the deals you have done on Showtime in Europe for example? And then unrelated Les we've gotten this question a lot and maybe you can touch on it.
Having the Chairman and CEO role together now do you think investors and shareholders should be thinking that there will be anything different coming out of CBS in terms of strategy or capital allocation now that you've taken on both roles? Thank you.
All right Ben let me tackle the first one.
Look you know we don't give guidance so here's what I will tell you.
I will tell you that there are more buyers in the marketplace for hit content than there have ever been in the past.
So the way we look at that is certainly from a price point perspective it's going to price is going to go up.
So we're feeling really good about it.
And again I will also tell you that whenever we budget a revenue type we've never in our professional career budgeted anything to go down.
So I think we have high expectations for that and it's because of the content pipeline.
We have hundreds of episodes yet to be monetized.
And as Les said we have more top 20 shows that anybody else.
So if anybody is buying anything they're going to start with us.
Ben on the other question look Sumner is for many years giving me a free rein so I don't view being the Chairman as changing our strategy or performance.
The team is still together.
I'm excited about the opportunity.
It's an honor to be doing this.
But I think it's going to be business as usual.
We're in great shape.
And I think our team is very satisfied in knowing that there is stability here and there's going to be for many years to come.
We'll take our next question from Jessica Reif Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I have a couple of questions.
First on the newer international deals they are different than some of the previous deals.
Could you talk about how long these deals generally are? Are they in dollars or local currency and what kind of escalators you have? Yes Jessica it's Joe.
Yes the Showtime deals you are referring to they are different because it's basically they're taking the Showtime brand and all future episodes.
So they are buying the library the backlist as well as all new shows going forward.
So I think that's the exciting part because what we're building is obviously a global brand.
Each deal is different.
Obviously if they are in local currency we are going to hedge that foreign currency risk.
We try to get them denominated in dollars.
They are usually 5 to 7 years in duration depending upon the partner.
So we're set up very nicely for a long period of time.
Great.
And then just switching gears completely -- but in advertising I just wanted to follow up on some of the comments you both Joe and Les made.
Joe you gave guidance for local for -- this is about Q1.
For local I think you said high single digits.
Right.
In terms of percent change.
But I didn't hear any commentary on the network.
And Les you said you expect significant increases in the upfronts.
I was wondering if you could give us any kind of range on that.
And then one last question for you Les.
As you are looking towards the upfront presentations is there any change in the way you are approaching the development season or the development process? Alright let me deal first of all the reason we are so encouraged.
There was concern at the last upfront that the numbered even though CPMs were up mid-single digits volume was down there was a little bit of nervousness.
Oh gee is the digital revolution taking over? And as we saw beginning in the third quarter when scatter went up in terms of -- high teens we're talking about -- and that continued into the fourth quarter and continuing to the first quarter.
So once again we always like to say that a guy who bought ads from CBS in October paid nearly 20% more than he would have if he would've bought from us in July.
As this momentum continues -- and once again tightened by the great sporting events we have the Grammy awards political advertising locally -- but at the network the scatter is getting better every month.
So as we head into the upfront we are fairly certain -- and once again Jo Ann Ross will kill me so I don't give numbers.
But I think it's going to be substantially higher than it has been before than it has been in the past year.
And I think it generally follows that when scatter is this strong the upfront continues to be strong and we're anticipating that now.
In terms of development there's really nothing uniquely different now.
Obviously we have a new President of Entertainment who has slightly different tastes than Nina and Glenn is great.
We are ordering around the same number of pilots as we have in previous years.
I would say we own a lot more than we ever have before.
There are only a couple that we are not -- that we don't own at least half and an awful lot of them we own 100% of that.
Because as you see the back end becomes as important if not more than the front end.
And the kind of shows that we're developing once again at this point they are across the board from procedurals that have worked very well with us to more soapy serialized shows which now with the SVOD players buying them and paying more for them.
So it really is too early to tell.
I can tell you I am very pleased with the development.
We don't need that much because we have a great stability in our number-one schedule.
So I've read all the scripts and we're casting and we will start production shortly.
Thank you.
Yes I don't want to forget about your last question.
I know you won't let us forget about it.
But we didn't give you the network advertising because it's so big we don't want to scare you.
But all I will tell you is that the underlying I think again is really key because obviously we have the Super Bowl and the extra playoff game.
So it's a big number.
But underlying the key takeaway you should take away the underlying strength continues.
We haven't seen a market like this in quite some time.
Fantastic.
Thank you.
Thank you Jessica.
Gwen next question.
And we'll go next to Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Just two questions.
First you seem to be making a very big push around CBS All Access with promotions in the Super Bowl; and content investments you mentioned -- additional inclusive programming on CBS All Access.
Can you talk about how you are thinking about balancing growing this great new service with balancing potential disruption to your existing business which still drives so much of your earnings? And then a second totally unrelated question just on your comments earlier about possibly participating in the broadcast incentive spectrum auction.
Any thoughts there on the potential use of proceeds? Alright.
I'll try to deal with the first one.
Yes All Access yes -- it is very important to us.
But as we said no matter how you get your CBS content we are going to be there.
So if you want to stay more traditional we're going to be there.
But as more and more people are watching our content digitally we also want to make that offering there.
So you take an opportunity like we had with Star Trek -- and when you talked about original content -- and obviously we could have put that anywhere.
We could have put it on Netflix; we could have put it on Amazon and sold it for a lot of money.
We said the investment is much more important to put it on All Access.
You are right and you are observant; we did put a spot for All Access on the Super Bowl as well as a spot for Showtime Over-The-Top and we say that's part of our future.
It's going to be a growing part.
And as we said in our earlier comments next year it's going to be a substantial financial benefit to us to have those sub numbers with us.
So it's part of the future.
And as I said any way you want to get your CBS we're going to be there.
And for your second question Alexia the broadcast spectrum: obviously because we're participating in it we can't really say too much about that.
But what we will say is A any proceeds realized we first and foremost always look to reinvest in our business in more content.
And any excess capital we return to shareholders.
<br>Thank you very much.
Thanks Alexia.
Gwen next question.
We'll go next to Michael Morris with Guggenheim Securities.
Thank you good afternoon guys.
Two questions first on All Access can you share what you're seeing in terms of the viewing habits on that product right now? What are your customers using it for in terms of catch-up viewing etcetera? And I'm particularly interested in whether sports viewing is important and proportional on that service compared to on the traditional service.
And then second of all maybe a more theoretical question but how would you think about possibly -- in the primetime lineup instead of programming three hours do two hours maybe pull the local news forward an hour and bring some of your highly rated late-night programs earlier and then perhaps being able to reallocate that programming budget.
Thanks.
Joe do you want to take the All Access [Multiple speakers]? Yes I'll take the All Access Mike.
Look I think what we are seeing -- obviously the demographic we're seeing a younger audience.
Obviously we're seeing a lot of Millennials consume there.
The biggest where they're spending the most amount of time is those catch-up viewing it's past episodes of current seasons.
And so that's again a really good promotional vehicle for they catch up and then they start watching back at the network so that's where we're seeing probably 60%-plus of the viewership.
Sports is actually small and live is smaller as well.
So I think the value proposition is its deep library its catch-up ability.
It's anywhere anytime.
And that's where we think where the value -- where we're delivering.
And Mike regarding primetime these shows -- our primetime lineup is very profitable especially with the aftermarket.
And you may recall a move that I think may have been the greatest mistake in the history of broadcasting which was to put Jay Leno at 10 o'clock which clearly was a big failure and frankly benefited us a great deal with our 10 o'clock programming because it was able to increase our numbers at that point.
And as I said these 10 o'clock shows most of what we own or throughout our schedule have a very lucrative aftermarket which frankly the late-night shows don't have.
The late-night shows do have a market online and they are very lucrative but nothing compared to an NCIS or a CSI.
We will take our next question from Anthony DiClemente with Nomura.
I wanted to ask about your thoughts on the pricing of streaming services.
Hulu charges an extra $4 to be ad-free which we think is priced below what those networks get in terms of ad revenue per user.
And I think you guys have said you generate roughly $4 a subscriber in CBS ad revenue.
So as it relates to CBS All Access -- first off are you considering an ad-free version of it and if you are do you think you would price it at $9.99? Or would you do something below $9.99 to entice better adoption of it as Hulu does? And then Joe just want to ask about the sale of the interactive business in China.
Can you just talk about that? Are there any other digital assets or hidden assets that you've got there under the hood at CBS that might be divestiture candidates for us? Thanks.
Yes.
Anthony on the All Access we priced it at 5.99 and we're exploring it.
And you have the right numbers.
At $4 that's what we're getting approximately from a CBS viewer for non-advertising.
And we've contemplated doing a 9.99 service.
We're not there yet.
And once again remember All Access is new.
We're experimenting with pricing.
We think we're at the right place.
The same kind of thing with Showtime OTT and we think if we do offer an ad-free service which is a great possibility that's the sort of pricing we are looking at so it will be -- it won't matter to us whether they are doing an ad-free or with ads.
May I add at Hulu it hasn't worked that well yet for the ad-free service.
People still prefer it to be without ads but we will look at that.
And on the sale we sold an interactive business an auto business called Xcar in China.
Again it was fantastic again a great accretive multiple for us.
China's volatility just made sense for us to exit that.
So we're constantly looking for underutilized assets where we could maximize it and sell it really in a tax-advantaged way.
And we were able to do that on this one.
So we're constantly doing that Anthony.
Thanks a lot.
We will go next to John Janedis with Jefferies.
Les you reiterated your confidence in retrans.
But the market has gotten incrementally nervous that the slowing affiliate fee growth at the cable networks more broadly is going to impact retrans growth at some point.
And so I wanted to ask has the tone of the discussion with the MVPDs changed at all? And will there be any impact related to consolidation? That's my first question.
Thanks.
Yes the answer is no.
I think everybody knows what the ballgame is with retrans.
And frankly with the consolidation we are looking forward to doing it.
Our last big deal that was up was Cablevision which we -- there was no muss no fuss; everybody knew what the game was.
Retrans is stronger than ever.
It's growing greatly every deal that we've done is bigger than the one before both with retrans or reverse comp.
And by the way we see it with our affiliates.
They are all successfully making deals and those deals are being passed along to us.
So the tone really hasn't changed at all.
As a matter fact if anything it's changed more positively.
Because people get that this is part of the world that we're now living in and we're very pleased about that.
Great thanks.
And then maybe separately you've been active on the Showtime licensing front.
I assume there was a fair amount of marketing of new programming along with the Bell Media deal during the quarter.
But can you talk about when the impact from the deals that you just announced will have a more visible impact on maybe EBITDA margins? And will that be lumpy or more of a straight line from a revenue perspective? Thanks.
Yes John it's Joe.
Yes I think look.
As we just said in our prepared remarks we expect the cable networks margin to expand in 2016.
So as we are doing more and more of these as we look at the accounting side they call it the ultimate we're trying to smooth that margin so we don't have the volatility that it goes up for every new deal.
Again the good news is these deals have been all accretive and you're seeing a pretty healthy margin in that business.
And so I'd say there's more to come.
We'll go next to Bryan Kraft with Deutsche Bank.
Just had a few brief questions one I was wondering if you could talk about the cost structure improvements in local broadcasting and the cadence for when you expect those to start to materialize over the course of the year.
Also I wanted to see if you could comment on the whether you see any improvement coming in radio or you think these kind of declines will continue.
And then the last one I had is just on cable.
I don't know if this math is right but it looks like cable subscription revenue growth was up low-single-digits year-over-year in the fourth quarter.
Assuming that sounds about right can you talk about what's going on under the surface with mix and how it's impacting revenue and how we should think about the underlying growth from here? Thank you.
All right Bryan.
On the cost side for local I would say again we probably got about $80 million of cost out of the local segment that we'll see build throughout the year really probably more back half.
And as far as the revenue goes I think again you're going to see radio I think build sequentially.
Obviously again political driving it not to the degree as it's going to benefit local television stations but there will certainly be a benefit in that.
We obviously in the middle of the year last year we changed our management team as well.
So again we're expecting margin expansion and growth.
It's also a very low-capital-intensive business and so we do benefit a lot from significant cash flow that they generate.
As far as the cable numbers the sub growth there as we said ended the year at an all-time high.
And so if the benefit of owning shows obviously is high-margin.
So when we sell those shows and make them available and we sell a Dexter a lot of that profit falls in that quarter.
So they will have some lumpiness on the mix of those titles of what year was it sold? Was there eight seasons six seasons two seasons? So I think that obviously does cause some volatility to the numbers but the high-class problem is is how high is up? And so it is in a much better position we are and generating and take that and reinvesting it into the business to do more and more original series.
So that's really gives us the ability to do that so we like owning it I know you guys would like a steady growth rate and just plug it into your model and have it go every quarter.
But that's why always say look at it on a full-year basis and it usually evens out.
We'll go next to Doug Mitchelson with UBS.
A few questions first Joe I don't mind being scared so I'll take a shot at 1Q network advertising: Super Bowl 45% that's 300 million.
Playoff game 40 million plus add in [Multiple Speakers].
But you've got to give me the percentage Doug.
Say the percentage.
What do you got up network up what? 70% how's that? Go ahead.
All right no comment on that one? No.
So look the advertising is pretty interesting.
I'm curious you guys have been in this game a long time why is advertising getting better? And the reason I ask that question is Wall Street is being inundated with macro data points that are not favorable.
The fourth quarter third quarter weren't great quarters for the economy yet TV advertising is killing it any thoughts as to why that's the case? Number one everybody was trying to break the model.
We've been doing this a long time.
There are up fronts that are spectacular; there are ones that aren't so spectacular.
Their scatter was down then scatter was up.
And I think there's no question that there's a bit of noise out there about digital advertising not having quite the same ROI as we do as broadcast.
And by the way we're in digital advertising in a big way.
In addition you see things from programmatic and you hear noise that maybe not everybody recorded is really a person.
It's a machine.
And I think that the validity of the content the shows that we're putting on shows that viewers are engaged in and the advertising works better.
So I don't think it hasn't been surprising with this is a pattern we've seen for many years.
Network advertising if you want to reach a mass audience and we've said this before not knocking YouTube but 20 million people watch NCIS.
That takes a lot of hits on YouTube except for Adele and Corden to equal what we're able to do on an episode of NCIS or Big Bang or 60 minutes.
So I think it just comes down to it is still the best bang for your buck.
So the second question Les one thing I think I'll always remember is when Viacom and CBS were split how you said that you enjoyed being considered the value non-growth company.
And I'm looking at CBS has a market cap of $20 billion and Viacom with a market cap of $12 billion and change right now.
And I'm wondering when you think about developing online businesses both HBO and Netflix have highlighted movies; Netflix has highlighted kids.
If Paramount or if a major kids network became available would you be interested in that for CBS as you think about developing digital business models for the future? <br>You know what? We like our businesses right now.
We build on our strength.
We don't need to get into other businesses that -- we're hitting it out of the ballpark as you just heard in our strong suits.
So there's no reason for us to get into the kids business.
<br>How about the movie business? The movie business? We're in it a little way.
We have a couple small movies.
We do two or three of them per year.
And we're very pleased with what we're doing.
It's not something -- you're not going to see us invest in a $150 million movie because there are no guarantees and not every movie is Star Wars.
So we're pretty happy with the assets we have now and we'd like to build upon the strength of our television business.
We'll take our next question from Laura Martin Needham.
Great numbers congratulations.
Joe with political my recollection is that your mid-term elections are typically smarter than your -- larger than your presidential elections.
And my recollection is that in 2014 you were about $220 million of political revenue.
Can you -- do you think this is going to be a bigger year? Because Les talked about record political.
So do you think despite historical we're going to get a better political number for you this year? <br>Here's what I would say Laura.
It will be a record presidential election year for us.
Okay.
So maybe still below the last number.
Perfect.
Les you talked about the mix of subs for CBS News and it was fascinating to hear you say they were 20 years younger.
Because my recollection -- last time I looked -- is that Fox News is about a 72-year-old average age.
Even rounding down across all news let's say it's a 60-year-old average age would that imply that your CBS News signup is around 40 years old? Which is way older than I would've expected for that kind of over-the-top service.
Well number one you're right.
Cable news is over 70.
Fox News that's the right number it's like 71 or 72.
Broadcast television news -- the three networks that are doing broadcast -- is around low 60s.
And we are on our CBSN -- once again it's not a subscription.
It's an advertising-based business.
It is about 20 years younger.
But once again you have to realize in the news business a 40-year-old is a young person.
So we are really happy to have them.
And there are people that currently aren't watching either cable or network so it is getting younger.
I don't think there are a lot of 20-year-olds that are watching yet but I think that will come.
<br>Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then just the last now on your All Access product what percent of your affiliates are now signed up under contract to rev share with the CBS All Access? 85%.
And you should close that gap by the end of the year do you think? There's one group that's not in and hopefully we get them done.
And we'll take our next question from Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
I have a couple things.
I wanted to ask about the upfront market coming up here.
You've talked about previously going for a majority of your deals on C7 this time.
I wonder if you could comment on that.
And then in a similar vein given whatever digital sales you may be doing on All Access or any other digital platforms any other digital sales will you be doing cross-platform guarantees? Or will you be handling those separately? And then a second unrelated question looking at just big-picture 2015 versus '14 margins being slightly down.
You highlight that the two main reasons were programming costs going up and investments in digital distribution.
I would assume programming costs don't necessarily go down because your per-episode cost probably goes up and you probably have more stuff to sell.
[But in digital] distribution investments may go down -- correct me if I'm wrong.
So I just wonder if I'm thinking about your margin progression correctly there meaning you should be able to get back to margin expansion from here? All right Tim I'll do the first question and Joe will do the second.
The upfront marketplace last year we attempted to do more C7s.
We did get more; we didn't get quite as many as we would've liked.
I think this year more than 50% of the deals are going to be C7.
You see people embracing that more.
You see that terminology being used more for what is valuable.
And I think the advertisers and the agencies are realizing that C7 is a better way of measurement.
In terms of digital sales and cross-platform guarantees as each day goes by we're doing a lot more cross-selling.
And our digital group is working very closely with our network group.
We saw an awful lot of it in the Super Bowl.
And yes guarantees can be paid off in many ways by either one of them shifting.
There are times we have used network guarantees digitally.
And it depends on the client.
But you are seeing a lot more as I said collaboration and a lot more creativity on the part of the advertisers as well as the various sales groups within CBS.
And Tim on your margin question the short answer is yes.
We expect margin expansion in '16.
I'd just remind you in 2015 we had the Mayweather-Pacquiao fight in the year which was a lot of revenue but low-margin for us.
So we do expect our margins to expand.
We will take our next question from Vijay Jayant with Evercore ISI.
I just wanted to understand your international licensing strategy which is obviously very accretive and good margins and obviously in the U.S.
you've gone direct to consumer.
Have you even considered looking at direct-to-consumer opportunities internationally? And is that on an NPV basis not as good and that's why you are going licensing as a strategy? Vijay look obviously each territory I mean what's rights are sold and what's available differs so obviously that's not lost upon us as a future opportunity.
I think for now what we were looking at we've looked at market by market and we thought what was the best way to maximize value but clearly leaving a door open for us.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Thanks Vijay.
And why don't we take one final question please? And we will take our last question from David Miller with Topeka Capital Markets.
Hey guys.
Congratulations on the result.
Les I have to say in the 16 years I've been an analyst I've been through my share of recessions or head-fake markets pricing and the possibility of a recession.
And I've always seen that advertising seems to go down first.
And yet that's not happening neither with you guys or really anyone else who has reported so far in this earnings rotation.
So with that in mind can you talk about how far in advance right now media buyers are buying network ex-sports if you might? Just how far in advance are you seeing media buyers take an interest in buying network and on local? And then I have a follow-up.
Thanks.
Yes you're absolutely right David.
And we were [indiscernible] back in '08 we saw it coming we saw it coming.
It was there in bright shining lights.
We're not seeing anything remotely resembling that now.
And we have visibility through Q2 in terms of our advertising which is sort of normal if not even more aggressive than normal.
So that's why I'm so optimistic about the upfront because when I can see advertising up through the second quarter that will be right smack in the middle of our upfront presentation and we are very optimistic.
So we have not even seen any sign of that at all.
Thank you David.
And this concludes today's call.
Thank you all for joining us.
Have a great evening.
Thank you everyone that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the CBS Corporation Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to the Executive Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Adam Townsend.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings call.
Joining me for today's discussion are Sumner Redstone our Executive Chairman; Leslie Moonves President and CEO; and Joe Ianniello Chief Operating Officer.
Sumner will have a few remarks and turn the call over to Les and Joe who will then discuss the strategic and financial results.
We will then open the call up to your questions.
Please note that during today's conference call the fourth quarter and full year 2013 profit measures will be discussed on an adjusted basis unless otherwise specified.
Reconciliations for non-GAAP financial information related to this call can be found in our earnings release or on our website.
In addition statements in this conference call relating to matters which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements which involves risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
Risks and uncertainties are disclosed in CBS Corporation's news releases and securities filings.
A webcast of this call and the earnings release related to today's presentation can also be found on the Investors section of our website at cbscorporation.com.
And with that it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to Sumner.
Thank you Adam.
Good afternoon everyone.
I'm extremely proud of CBS [indiscernible] as well across the company great content is driving our success but it's not enough to have great content.
You have to have the right strategy and the right leadership to make it all work.
That's why I'm so pleased to turn this call over to my good friend and colleague a man I speakably and rightfully call a super genius and a miracle worker CBS's President and Chief Executive Officer Les Moonves.
Thank you very much Sumner for that very nice introduction.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us for our first earnings call of the year.
We have a number of great things to talk about today starting with CBS's tremendous year and terrific fourth quarter.
For the year and the quarter we had all-time highs across our key financial metrics including revenue OIBDA operating income and EPS.
Quarterly revenue was up 6% to $3.9 billion OIBDA was up 7% to $927 million and EPS was up 22% to $0.78.
Again all of these were records in the fourth quarter.
For the full year we performed right along the same lines.
It was our best year ever in every key financial metric.
In fact for the first time our EPS came in above $3.
Remember just a few short years ago we were just at $0.70.
Clearly CBS is on a tremendous run.
Year-after-year we have told you that this is a golden age for content companies that have the best programming.
And year after year quarter after quarter our shareholders are taking part in the benefits of that.
The good news is that we are just beginning to find a whole new way -- set of ways to monetize our programming on new platforms.
There is a lot more to come in this regard.
Through it all will continue to focus on our core strength which of course is our content.
Our base business is doing phenomenally well and in addition our non-advertising revenue streams continue to be a tremendous area of growth for us.
Streaming domestic and international syndication retransmission consent and reverse compensation all played a huge role in our success in 2013.
In fact even with our extremely strong Super Bowl ad sales last year 42% of our annual revenue was from non-advertising sources the highest it's ever been.
The trend continues as we speak.
Already here in 2014 we have announced a series of innovative deals that put our programming on a variety of platforms and enable us to grow these recurring and dependable revenue sources.
These include a brand-new deal with Amazon to license Extant our upcoming summer series with Halle Berry.
With Extant and another deal with Amazon for the second season of Under the Dome we have created a new model for summer programming.
And we have opened up a whole new time period to launch new content franchises that we can sell around the world.
We also recently extended our library deal with Amazon well into 2016.
We have also cut deals to license Elementary to the WGN Cable Network and Hulu Plus' subscription service.
Thanks to these 2 deals Elementary will generate more syndication revenue per episode than any show ever has.
In addition we just did a multi-platform deal with WGN Hulu Plus and ION to license Blue Bloods also at extremely attractive pricing.
And on Monday we announced a new library deal with Hulu Plus.
CBS content has been performing very well for Hulu Plus in our smaller previous deal.
So we have greatly expanded the partnership and now have another large-scale SVOD library partner along with Netflix and Amazon.
Amazon Netflix Hulu Plus Streampix WGN ION the list goes on and on and it continues to expand across new platforms every single day.
All of these deals are a direct result of the increasing appetite for our content.
The good news is we keep starting the process over and over again with every new hit show we create.
And in addition to CBS Showtime in the CW we're now launching new owned content franchises on other broadcast and cable networks as well.
In the last few weeks alone we have received a series order from ABC for a new drama and a pilot order from Fox for a new comedy.
We also just did a series for the USA Network and we're having conversations with many others as well including original shows for SVOD and other emerging platforms.
Plus as we head into our development season we are very excited by the shows we will be producing for the CBS Television Network led by the New Orleans-based NCIS spin-off that we just announced for next season.
So as you can see we're building the value for CBS across the company and that certainly extends the great strides we are making with our Outdoor initiative as well.
We are right on track to launch an IPO in the first quarter just as we told you we would.
We look forward to receiving IRS approval to convert our Outdoor business into a REIT which will unlock the value of this business and significantly enhance our ability to return value to CBS Corporation shareholders.
Once the full separation is complete we will be very close to our goal of a 50-50 split in terms of advertising and non-advertising revenue.
And we will be able to be even more focused on growing CBS as a content company first and foremost.
Our Outdoor transaction and the continued strength of our company are why we're pleased today to announce plans for the accelerated share repurchase of $1.5 billion.
This new ASR means we will use $2 billion in the first quarter to buyback our stock which is nearly as much as we did in all of 2013 and nearly double as much as we did in 2012.
We are doing this because of the visibility and confidence we have in our continued growth prospects.
Going forward as you know returning value to shareholders will remain a top priority for CBS.
Now we'll take a brief look at the performance of our businesses starting with Entertainment then I'll turn it over to Joe to give you some more analysis followed by your questions.
The CBS Television Network is having another outstanding season.
And yes as you've heard many times is the most watched network in the country once again.
We have the #1 program in NCIS the #1 comedy in The Big Bang Theory and the #1 new comedy The Millers which is 100% owned by us.
Plus we have more top 10 and top 20 shows than any other network.
In addition the value of the biggest live event on television continues to grow.
Last month's broadcast of the GRAMMYs brought in more than 28 million viewers.
This was only eclipsed in the last 21 years by the GRAMMYs that followed the death of Whitney Houston a couple of years ago.
The biggest event of all though continues to be NFL programming.
Our AFC Championship game averaged more than 51 million viewers the second highest in 32 years.
And our AFC divisional playoff game drew an average of 41 million viewers which is among the highest we've ever had for that game too.
I also want to congratulate Fox for having the most viewers in the history of television during the Super Bowl last week.
The Super Bowl and the playoffs followed an extremely strong regular season for the NFL on CBS.
More people watched our coverage than any other network.
All of this is why we're so excited to have won the contract to broadcast Thursday Night Football this fall.
We submitted a very responsible bid that was greatly helped by our position as the #1 network in America and the best possible platform to grow the NFL's Thursday night audience.
We will now have 32 hours of additional NFL programming to strengthen our schedule across the week and the greatest promotional platform in the business to launch our fall seasons.
We are very pleased that the NFL chose us as their partner and we happen to agree with the New York Times which said "Ultimately the victory went to the strongest network in prime time which it could be argued needed the games the least." Turning to CBS News.
Our broadcasts continue to gain ground thanks to their commitment to quality original programming.
CBS This Morning CBS Sunday Morning and Face the Nation all delivered their best fourth quarter ratings in 2 decades.
Season-to-date the CBS Evening News is delivering its largest audience in 7 years.
And of course 60 Minutes continues to dominate as the #1 news show on television.
With entertainment sports and news hitting on all cylinders and the NFL on Thursdays we are once again very encouraged heading into this year's upfront.
I feel confident saying right now that we will lead the marketplace in pricing and volume but no I'm not going to make any exact predictions just yet which of course will be a major source of relief to our sales department.
But suffice it to say it's going to be a great upfront for CBS.
Meanwhile we continue to negotiate deals that will give us proper value for the C3 window and beyond.
The world of audience measurement is making great strides right now including recent announcements we've made with Nielsen Red Track [ph] then others.
Nielsen is getting better and better at counting all the eyeballs that are viewing our content and we look forward to the financial upside this will bring.
As I mentioned earlier our shows are selling extremely well in the syndication marketplace too.
For example our innovative deal for The Good Wife is not only paying off in syndication dollars.
It's also helping the show's first run on the broadcast network as well.
During the fourth quarter The Good Wife was the most-watched television series on Amazon Prime.
Lots of this was catch-up viewing which is translating to even more interest for the show's current season and CBS's ratings to the show are now up double digits.
Of course it also helps that The Good Wife may be the best show on broadcast television right now.
The multi-platform success has led us to sell other shows in new ways as well including the terrific value I told you about for Elementary and Blue Bloods.
Plus Hawaii Five-0 is also going to syndication later this year which will lead to another whole new source of syndication revenue for us in the quarters and years to come.
Meanwhile retrans and reverse comp continue to be a very compelling growth story for broadcasters right now and represent another key way we are monetizing our content and growing our business.
As you have all heard about there are those who are illegally taking our content and seeking to profit from it without paying their fair share.
CBS and others in the industry are challenging this and expect to prevail.
But no matter what happens we have a whole host of compelling business alternatives that will build our financial prospects.
We can adjust and thrive no matter how this situation unfolds.
I do want to point out here that we believe in over-the-air broadcast television and it remains our first option.
What's important for investors to know is we have many retrans and reverse comp deals in place right now.
And when you combine these deals with all of the options we have to sell our network lineup into the future we are extremely confident in our ability to grow this revenue stream.
In fact we've been telling you for a while now that our goal is $1 billion in retrans and reverse comp in 2017.
Well today we are announcing a new goal.
Our new target is $2 billion in 2020.
Clearly that's quite a jump but we've exceeded our target every time we've given you one.
And we have tremendous confidence in our ability to realize the full value of CBS going forward.
$2 billion in 2020.
Strong new and existing deals for Showtime are also driving our Cable Network segment which continues to be extremely healthy.
Showtime has added 1 million subscribers each year for 6 of the last 7 years and the number of subs is now at 23 million.
Just like at CBS it's the strength of our shows that is allowing us to negotiate better and better deals.
During the quarter Homeland ended its third season with its best ratings ever up 21% over the second season.
And as you know Season 4 will be back later this year.
And in their first seasons Ray Donovan and Masters of Sex both finished with ratings better than Homeland's freshman season Ray Donovan by 31% and Masters of Sex by 10%.
Obviously both of these shows will be coming back later this year.
We have a number of other exciting projects coming to Showtime this year as well including the May debut of a tremendously entertaining thriller called Penny Dreadful and a new drama we recently scheduled called The Affair.
We own 100% of both of these series and they will add to the library of shows in which we have ownership including Dexter Californication Nurse Jackie House of Lies Episodes Ray Donovan and Masters of Sex.
These shows are or will be monetized all the platforms we mentioned earlier in all the ways that have been so successful for CBS.
Simon &amp; Schuster continues to produce great content as well.
During 2013 we had 326 New York Times bestsellers with 37 making it to #1.
Both of these rankings were ahead of last year's number.
And sales of our more profitable digital books continue to grow quickly and now represent 27% of our total revenue.
Meanwhile at our TV stations nonpolitical revenue was up 9% helped by the NFL CBS's strong performance in prime time including big events like the GRAMMYs.
In fact local revenue for the GRAMMYs came in 50% higher than it did just 3 years ago.
In Radio we continue to put an emphasis on great local programming which is leading to bigger audiences.
During the most recent ratings period we had double-digit ranking gains in the highly coveted 25- to 54-year-old demo in many of our major markets and nontraditional revenues from special events was up double digits over 1 year ago.
Our strategy to combine the company's local TV and Radio websites into a single online presence in every market also continues to pay off.
In 2013 revenue was up 21% over the year before and the momentum is continuing here in '14 including a new record of nearly 57 million unique users in January.
I'm also very pleased with the success of our CBS Interactive business.
Revenue was up 14% during the quarter and we continue to see very rapid growth in mobile ad revenue which was up 118% and it helped to increase profit substantially.
So as you can see we continue to drive our base business forward while strategically capitalizing on new opportunities.
These opportunities are all around us.
We're selling our hit shows into domestic syndication at record rates while also partnering with the biggest players in the SVOD to maximize the value of our programming.
We're continuing to forge new deals with cable and satellite operators at fair value while also resetting a large number of reverse comp deals that are coming up for negotiation.
Every single day we're leveraging the power of the CBS Television Network Showtime and our major market local assets to tap into new innovative revenue streams.
And it's all born out of the same idea that creating owning and broadcasting the best content lends itself to infinite possibilities.
So given our track record of success in that regard and our drive to keep doing what we do best it stands to reason that we think our future as the content company is very very bright.
I'll close by reminding you of 2 $2 billion numbers.
First our $2 billion of share repurchases here in just the first quarter; and second $2 billion of retrans and reverse comp in 2020.
So there's a lot to be excited about here at the CBS Corporation.
Thank you.
And with that I'll turn it over to Joe.
Thanks Les and good afternoon everyone.
Today I'll start with giving you -- by giving you some more details about our fourth quarter and full year results then I'll update you on our Outdoor transaction and discuss what lies ahead in 2014.
After that we'll be happy to take your questions.
As you know by now we delivered our best-ever results in 2013 driven by the healthy performance of our base business and the growing strength of our non-advertising revenue streams.
These results are indicative of the ever increasing number of opportunities we have to monetize our content and it's a trend we see continuing for many years to come.
During the fourth quarter revenue of $3.9 billion was up 6% with strength in every one of our key revenue types.
Content licensing and distribution was up 28% driven by growth in both traditional syndication as well as SVOD.
CBS Showtime and CW content all contributed to the strong performance and international content sales grew 20%.
Affiliate and subscription fees were up 7% thanks to the continued increases in retrans and reverse compensation as well as higher cable affiliate fees.
And in advertising a 4% increase at the CBS Network during the quarter offset local political spending in 2012.
As Les said our profit measures in the fourth quarter were up across the board.
Operating income of $813 million was up 9% and EPS of $0.78 was up 22%.
It was our highest quarterly EPS we have ever recorded.
For the full year our results were very consistent with the quarter.
Revenue of $50.3 billion grew 8% with solid gains in all 3 of our major revenue sources: advertising was up 4% content licensing and distribution was up 15% and affiliate and subscription fees grew 16%.
We also delivered strong annual gains in profits trending right in line with our quarterly results.
Full year OIBDA of $3.74 billion was up 7%.
Full year operating income of $3.28 billion was up 9% and full year EPS of $3.02 was up 18%.
Now let's turn to our operating segment performance for the quarter.
Entertainment revenue in the fourth quarter grew 11% to $2.2 billion.
This segment benefited from our fast-growing streaming and syndication revenue both in the U.S.
and abroad as well as 4% growth in network ad sales led by our NFL programming.
Revenue at our CBS Interactive unit was also up 14% for the quarter.
Entertainment OIBDA of $418 million was up 27%.
Network advertising retrans and reverse comp as well as content licensing fees drove a margin expansion of 240 basis points to 19% all while continuing to invest in content.
At Cable Networks fourth quarter revenue of $477 million was up 9% fueled by growing subscriber counts as well as higher weights per sub.
It was also driven by the international licensing of Showtime original series which is becoming a meaningful new revenue generator for us and one that will continue to grow as we own more and more of our shows.
Cable OIBDA of $199 million was up 8% and our cable OIBDA margin held steady at a healthy 42%.
Turning to Publishing.
Fourth quarter revenue of $225 million was up 5% due to the strength of our titles across both print and digital platforms.
e-books represented 23% of total Publishing revenue for the quarter.
Publishing OIBDA of $37 million was up 19% and Publishing OIBDA margin grew 2 percentage points to 16%.
In Local Broadcasting nonpolitical revenue was up 4% for the quarter with TV stations up 9% and Radio even with last year.
Reported results were obviously affected by last year's political spending.
In terms of top categories healthcare and auto grew solidly in both TV and Radio.
Because of the lack of political ad dollars Local Broadcasting OIBDA came in at $263 million and still delivered a solid margin of 37% for the quarter.
At Outdoor Americas' reported revenue in the fourth quarter of $347 million was up 2% and in constant dollars revenue grew 3%.
The U.S.
led the way with a 5% increase with growth in both billboards and transit.
Outdoor OIBDA of $120 million was up 28% driven by revenue growth and a gain from the disposition of some bus shelters.
Turning to cash flow and the balance sheet.
Free cash flow came in at $382 million for the quarter compared with $199 million in Q4 of 2012 when we made a $200 million discretionary pension contribution.
For the year free cash flow was up 13% to nearly $1.8 billion and we do not anticipate making any significant pension contributions in the near term.
Also during the quarter we used $364 million to retire more than 6 million shares of our stock.
At the end of 2013 we had $5.4 billion remaining under our current buyback program.
As Les said we plan to use $2 billion to repurchase our stock during the first quarter through a combination of the $1.5 billion ASR we announced today and an acceleration to the quarterly pace of our ongoing repurchase plan.
This announcement once again demonstrates that we are committed to returning capital to our shareholders and that we have continued confidence in our future cash flow.
Also at the end of the fourth quarter we had $397 million of cash on hand.
Next let me give you an update on our Outdoor transaction.
We've come a long way since we first announced our Outdoor initiative about 1 year ago.
We filed our private letter ruling request with the IRS submitted multiple filings to the SEC hired a new public company management team and recently completed a $1.6 billion debt offering at a weighted average cost of debt of 4.2%.
We feel very optimistic that we will receive a favorable ruling from the IRS to convert our Outdoor business into a REIT and we remain on track to launch our IPO later this quarter.
Now let me give you a few observations about what we see ahead in Q1.
Network scatter pricing remains strong up double digits from upfront pricing.
Local Broadcasting is showing stability.
Our underlying TV stations are pacing to be up high single digits which excludes the impact of noncomparable sporting events and Radio is pacing to be flat to up low single digits compared to last year.
Meanwhile Outdoor is pacing to be up low to mid-single digits.
So in summary we're managing our business for the long term and diversifying our revenue mix by growing our high margin non-advertising revenue streams.
In content licensing and distribution our first cycle syndication deals for Blue Bloods and Elementary demonstrate the strength of our programming and the way our multi-platform approach is increasing our content value.
We continue to find a huge appetite for CBS content both domestically and internationally as well as on traditional and newer platforms.
And looking ahead we have set up a strong syndication pipeline with contribution from CBS Showtime and the CW.
In affiliate and subscription fees we'll continue to do more retrans and reverse comp deals to realize the fair value of our content.
In 2014 we'll reap the full benefits of the deals we signed last year as well as from escalators in existing deals.
As we mentioned we see a path to $2 billion in total retrans and reverse compensation revenue in 2020.
And for advertising revenue we'll benefit in the back half of 2014 from a strong upfront marketplace our new NFL Thursday night package and political spending.
Add all of that to the completion of our Outdoor transaction and CBS is well on its way to becoming a content-centric company one that is fueled by more predictable fast-growing revenue streams.
With so many exciting opportunities before us 2014 will make for another terrific year for CBS.
With that Gwen we can open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> As we get our arms around that $2 billion number guys can you spend a minute talking about your outlook on the reverse comp front? And I asked because that's typically where there's more debate or controversy and in particular how do you think Les those smaller CBS station groups can go out and get their own retrans which you need them to get to pay you? And then there's been sort of this focus on a 50-50 split historically.
I'm guessing that that's not something you necessarily subscribe to but maybe you can comment on that as well? Yes.
Look we -- not one size doesn't fit all and once again the -- we wish our affiliates well in their retrans conversations but that really doesn't affect us greatly.
As you can tell there are a lot of very large station groups out there that are gobbling up a lot of the smaller markets.
So they can do fairly well in their retrans side.
The reason we get to that number is as we look at the contracts that are expiring at the end of this year and many more in '15 and '16 and so on looking down the road we don't think it's a tough puck to get to that $2 billion.
We want our affiliates to be strong we believe in them.
But we also know with the product that we're providing with them they're able to get revenue from the MVPDs as well.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And Joe sort of taking this retrans conversation further the balance sheet.
I noticed you guys are levered I think like 1.6x here on a trailing basis.
How do you think about leverage after this Outdoor transaction? I know I can't pin you down on a number but at least directionally and can you help us -- or remind us about the off-balance sheet liabilities that rating agencies look at and how that may be exiting with the spin-off how that could help your leverage picture? Sure.
Look the bottom line is as we're increasing our cash flow and the mix and the quality of that cash flow clearly we're creating lots of financial capacity.
As far as the off-balance sheet things obviously lease is a big part of that and I think again the rating agency -- that will mostly go with the Outdoor deal.
And our pension as we sit here today is 95% funded.
So there's not a whole lot of off-balance sheet adjustments that the rating agencies I think will make.
There are some but again Ben as we execute on this Outdoor deal we'll continue to refine our thinking on what's the appropriate leverage ratio for CBS.
But clearly we're creating significant capacity.
And we'll go next to Jessica Reif Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions.
First you've done a ton of deals in the last few weeks and the last year or so on content deals.
As you look at your pipeline can you talk about other stuff that could be coming off the network and going to the pipeline? Like maybe CSI: Las Vegas and what that could mean? Second it's amazing that though TV advertising came down as much as it -- I mean given the political comps came down and yet you were able to basically maintain margins.
Just wondering how you did that? And then I have one follow-up.
I'll do the first part Jessica and Joe could talk about the margins.
Once again remember most of these deals with very few exceptions include any current shows on the air or past seasons of current shows.
So there is a huge capacity for that which we are very excited about.
In addition owning The Millers the #1 new comedy on television is something we own 100%.
We haven't had a hit comedy since Everybody Loves Raymond that we were a participant in in a major way.
So the fact that The Millers is going to be around a while and clearly is doing very well leads to a fairly big number.
In addition once again we're only talking about some first cycle stuff.
The pipeline will continue.
There are more and more players.
I remember when we started with Netflix.
Everybody said "Oh is there anybody else going to be there?" And then Amazon can along.
Then Hulu expanded to Hulu Plus.
You see Streampix coming along.
So with the amount of library and current show contracts that we own both on CBS and Showtime we are very encouraged that the pipeline at this level is going to continue for many many years.
And Jessica the only thing I would add to that is we still have a lot of shows that we have not sold that we've held back such as the CSI that you referenced Criminal Minds NCIS.
So we still have a whole lot of our content that we have not yet monetized as well.
For local Jessica the 37% margin it's actually down.
Obviously we pride ourselves on managing our cost infrastructure nicely.
So it's still a very healthy margin but that also kind of ties back to what Ben's question was is why do we feel confident about reverse compensation number is you know we own TV stations too.
So we see them having 37-plus percent margins.
So this isn't about an ability to pay.
They certainly have the ability to pay and the value we see we provide to CBS affiliated stations that we own when we compare them to independents or CW is quite significant.
So I think we look at that holistic.
Research Division</strong> And then just the follow-up is Les alluded to the coming Supreme Court decision.
I was just wondering what -- can you give us any color on options like medium or longer term if the Supreme Court rules in favor of Aereo? We've already mentioned it a number of them.
Number one most of our current deals was MVPDs would not allow them to accept an Aereo-like service.
So people are forgetting that even if Aereo was available.
Look we obviously are coming before the Supreme Court.
We feel fairly confident that we're going to become victorious.
You never know what's going to happen.
But if something goes the other way there are so many other alternatives we can form our own Aereo with the other networks.
We could go over the top ourselves.
We can go directly with cable.
There are a number of ways that we could do things.
We prefer the current system.
We prefer a system where local television can get into their marketplaces there.
But if that doesn't happen we're not going to be financially handicapped at all.
And we'll go next to David Bank with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kind of a follow-up to the last question that's a little more modeling oriented.
In what is kind of a high-class problem the sheer magnitude of deals with respect to both the online stuff the broadcast stuff the cable stuff that you've been announced it's so big it's getting hard for us to follow right? And generally I think it's getting to the point where we really can't follow specific deals anymore.
So and -- shows so to make it easier is there a way you can give us sort of a run rate at this point for digital over the next few years in aggregate Hulu Netflix and Amazon and then kind of a ballpark for monetization on first run traditional syndication for '14 '15 '16? And if you can't just a sense that there really is no hole that this is kind of a steady revenue stream that -- or if it's not can you clarify? Are there big lumps? David you're making the question more complicated than our deals.
Look the key to all this and I'll let Joe finish the end of it talking about some of the modeling and the financials is each deal that we do is very different than the last one.
So we did a deal for The Good Wife which got a lot more money than anybody ever imagined we would get for a softer female-oriented show.
And we did that by putting together SVOD and cable and station groups.
And we just did the same thing with 2 different shows.
Elementary.
For Elementary I think it surprised a lot of people the amount of money we got but suddenly here was Hulu Plus as the new SVOD player.
Here was WGN which hadn't been a major player in the cable syndication marketplace before as well as ION.
So once again we found a new way to do it.
And as you look down the road once again domestically we haven't even made these sorts of deals with CSI which has over 300 episodes and NCIS which has over 200 episodes.
And the sky's the limit which is why we feel very comfortable that the pipeline is still going to continue in a way that's going to make sense.
And these deals may look -- there may be a new guy involved in this that pays us a lot more money than we've received already.
So...
And David so obviously you know we don't give guidance.
So what I would point you to is instead of looking at individual deals if you look to the content licensing and distribution revenue as where these syndication deals fall and the affiliate and subscription really where the retrans and reverse comp deals are falling just look at that growth rate in total.
So for 2013 content licensing grew 15%.
It is now a $4 billion number and affiliate and subscription fees grew 16%.
It is now a $2.2 billion number.
So you're talking about $6.6 billion of non-advertising revenue.
So when Les and I talk about 50-50 mix we anticipate growing advertising but growing these non-advertising revenues at a faster clip.
So I would guide you to look at them when we report revenue by type.
We'll go next to Michael Morris with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
One the goal for 2020 can you talk about the trajectory between now and then? Is it lumpy? Is it back half weighted? Is it relatively straight-line? That would be helpful.
And then also with Netflix entering more and more European markets can you talk about what of your content is already sort of spoken for in markets outside the U.S.
and where there could be additional opportunity from here? Mike it's Joe.
I'll start with the $2 billion number.
It is lumpy unfortunately.
It's just really predicated on the timing of when deals expire.
So it's not linear.
So it will have some lumpiness.
Obviously last year we renewed about 17.5% of our footprint.
This year we have less than that to renew.
But remember we have a huge amount on the reverse comp side coming kind of in '15 and '16.
So you're going to see a nice leg up there.
But again that's going to be somewhat lumpy.
In terms of Netflix obviously every territory they've opened in we have been a major player there.
And as they expand we're very happy doing that.
Once again handled by our international people as a -- Netflix being part of the international syndication sales.
And in certain territories replacing these main syndication partner.
But it's sort of impossible to give you numbers but all I can say is every time they expand we're very happy about it.
And it does well for us.
We'll go next to Anthony DiClemente with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I have one for Joe and then one for Les.
Joe on the last quarterly call you talked about split-off transaction in the third quarter.
Are the plans for that exchange offer intact? I'm wondering if there's a way for you to quantify for investors the potential reduction in shares from that? And then Les on the NFL deal congratulations on getting that deal done.
I wonder do you expect that deal to be profitable out of the gate? Or was it more of a strategic -- is it more of a strategic rational there as it pertains to either programming schedule or longer-term kind of making you guys the incumbent on Thursday night? I think investors would want to know if you expect to be profitable out of the gate on that.
All right.
Joe? Okay.
All right.
Anthony let me do the first part the split off.
Yes.
So the IPO we're planning for later this quarter as we said.
And then that stock will trade and we think again roughly 5 to 6 months.
So it brings us into the kind of third quarter and then we would anticipate doing an exchange offer.
And obviously what that means is the holders of CBS will exchange their CBS per shares of Outdoor company at a ratio and that is a transaction that has to take 20 business days.
So that's a month.
So we are on track for that but -- so it's dependent upon the value the equity value of the Outdoor business which we're quite bullish on.
So I can't give you a sense of exactly how many shares we would retire but clearly it's going to be a significant reduction in shares.
On the NFL deal we're thrilled to have it and as you know the competition was pretty fierce.
At the end of the day it really wasn't about money.
The NFL was more interested in establishing their Thursday night and being in partnership with a brand a company a network that would do a better job of establishing that into the future.
Now obviously we ascertained what our network sales are going to be.
In addition our local affiliates are contributing.
Our station sales remember we have an awful lot of O&amp;Os that are in the NFL market should be extremely high.
Plus it's impossible to speak more highly of how it promotes everything else in our fall schedule.
Is this strategic? Absolutely.
Do I hope we get it longer? Sure but so does everybody else.
We hope to have it.
We hope to extend it for a longer period of time.
But as it is I am extremely pleased to have this.
It means so much to us.
Look at what our schedule looked like at the beginning of this year without the NFL.
Then you add that Thursday night to tighten up an already existing schedule and it's a pretty sensational thing.
So it's a good short-term value and a good long-term value.
We'll go next to John Janedis with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Les there's been some concern over the past couple of years that there'd be some pressure on pricing and syndication.
But based on the Blue Bloods and Elementary deals that doesn't seem to be the case.
Are these one-offs or do you think the bar has been reset? And how does international look? Number one as you get more and more players in the marketplace and more and more ways of selling it the sky is the limit.
You're right.
Everybody said once upon a time people gave 0 value to domestic on dramas on ours.
Now when you look at the fierce competitiveness and the different ways of selling these things both exclusively and non-exclusively these aren't one-offs.
As I go back to the last 4 or 5 deals we've done between NCIS: L.A.
and Hawaii Five-0 and Blue Bloods and Elementary you look at them and every single deal was vastly different with different partners.
And the sky is the limit.
And with all these players demanding our programming the more good stuff we have the more good deals we're going to make.
And the marketplace is exploding.
It really is.
And internationally once again from a few years ago where we were making $400 million last year our international folks brought in over $1.2 billion in revenue from our products.
So that marketplace also is exploding.
Remember per an earlier question the Netflixes of the world are also going international and they're also bidding up the competition plus internationally there are more markets that are getting more aggressive for our content.
Asia's opening up.
South America's opening up and Eastern Europe's opening up.
So once again that marketplace is growing as well.
Research Division</strong> And Joe one quick one for you.
Going back to the buyback.
I'm sorry if I missed this but should the increased pace in the first quarter now be viewed as a new run rate for the year? No I think look John we're going to take it -- as you said we're going to go into the Outdoor transaction.
We're going to be raising obviously IPO proceeds.
So I think again it's going to be part of an overall strategy as we fine tune it.
Right now we just want to get this $2 billion executed in Q1.
We'll go next to Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My question's on the SVOD revenues.
You gave a lot of detail and talked about the pipeline and a lot of recent deals you've been signing.
A couple of questions on it.
I guess do you think the SVOD revenues will actually be up year-over-year in '14 versus '13? And then also a lot of the announcements we've seen more recently and you've touched on is Amazon and Hulu Hulu Plus are you seeing I guess more so at Hulu because Amazon's a big player in the market for a while Hulu becoming a much more competitive bidder and I guess have deeper pockets now? Well once again we distinguish between Hulu and Hulu Plus.
Hulu Plus is an SVOD.
And obviously we're not part of Hulu and there's a big distinction there.
But clearly by this last deal they were a competitor to Netflix and Amazon.
They're now over 5 million subs.
So they're a big big player.
And yes SVOD will be up substantially in '14 over '13.
Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up if I can on the NFL Thursday Night Football which looks like a great win for you guys do you think there is -- I mean is there a possibility that could turn into a multi-year deal? I know it was initially for just 1 year.
Is that part of your thinking? Look the deal is for 1 year and we're hopeful that we show them how great we are.
And as I said we're very flattered they chose us because at the end of the day it wasn't about the money.
It was about who would be a great partner.
So our goal is at the end of next season they say "My god CBS did a sensational job.
We want to continue with them." But there's no guarantee of that.
We'll go next to Doug Mitchelson with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First for Joe what's the margins we should expect on these incremental retrans revenues? Now they're giving 7-year guidance for retrans revenue we figure we'd try for 7-year guidance on some other metrics.
What's the flow-through on the incremental retrans growth these days? Just -- when we look at retrans there's 100% flow-through.
I mean our thought is we're spending this programming as part of our overall strategy.
So when we went after the NFL Thursday night package it wasn't -- we're not saying predicating incremental retrans.
Obviously we think we can get it but when we look at the retrans dollars all we're trying to get on retrans of is fair value for the content we're providing today.
And I think the statistics and the viewership and the audience justifies that.
So we look at those as hundred set dollars Doug.
Research Division</strong> On the ASR is that already partly executed fully executed? Is that just getting started now? How does that work? It's just getting started now.
So we announce it today tomorrow is a cooling-off period.
And we'd put it in effect on Friday.
Research Division</strong> Les help with the scatter market.
I know you guys talked in your prepared remarks about scatter pricing double digit over the upfront.
There was a volume issue in the fourth quarter that seems better in the first quarter.
Is there anything -- when you look at the breadth of categories which ones are growing versus shrinking sell-out at this point in terms of volume versus this point last year for the first quarter? Is there any depth that you can give us to how you feel the health of the scatter market is today? All I can tell you it's -- that it's very healthy.
It's not something -- I speak to our sales guys a couple of times a week and there is a lot of activity going on.
The GRAMMYs sold through the roof.
Obviously the NCAA tournament's going extremely well.
We're very pleased with the pricing there.
And as we head into the rest of the season post-Olympics everything for us is looking great.
And the Olympics we're just doing a holding pattern and then we explode again.
We'll go next to Laura Martin with Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
A couple.
One is you guys were saying after you spin-off Outdoor the mix of revenue will be 50-50 advertising non-advertising.
What do you think the normalized rate is longer term? Because we're getting really fast growth in non-ad revenues.
So I'm interested in your normalized.
And then kind of building on Anthony's question.
Now that we have the NFL on Thursday nights which is predominately male and historically you guys were the strongest ratings on Thursday nights predominately female.
Does this: A change when you introduce your new fall schedule and do you go to a more of a year-round introduction? Or do you go to shorter seasons? And what does it do to your upfront numbers? Doesn't it add a bunch of men to your guarantee which typically is somewhat higher CPMs.
So do you end up with a lot higher upfront number but don't get into trouble with your sales force Les? I'll answer the second first.
And then Joe you could answer the first.
Regarding the NFL yes.
It is a large percentage males but there's still a lot of women that do watch it.
This just tightens our schedule.
What happens is our Thursday night schedule will come on at the end of October early November.
So we will have very high rates.
And yes there will be more men watching on Thursday but still a lot of women watch football.
What we will do with our Thursday night is we have some big shows such as The Big Bang Theory which leads off Thursday night and we're not going to wait until November to launch that.
That's going to be on the air on some other night which will grow the ratings and the rates on some other night for The Big Bang Theory.
And we have that possibility with Elementary on the other end of the schedule.
So what it will mean is we will have more original programming on throughout the year a few less repeats.
And I think the upfront sales as you know the NFL sells better than anything else the volume will be extremely high.
And the male-female balance is not something that we are even slightly concerned about.
And Laura on your question mathematically just so you're clear it does not get us to the 50-50 we're just taking out Outdoor if you looked at it kind of for 2013.
So what Les referred to that was our target that's our goal.
So we'll be still slightly higher but with the non-advertising revenues growing faster that is our goal to get to 50-50 organically.
We'll take our next question from David Miller with Topeka Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Two questions for Joe.
Joe on the $1.5 billion ASR the way I've been thinking about your buyback program this year is you've got the $6 billion organic buyback then you've got the future extraction of cash from the CBS Outdoor transaction and then you've got the share exchange which you talked about just a few minutes ago.
Should I assume or should we assume that the $1.5 billion ASR effectively sort of de facto represents the extraction of cash there before you even extracted cash? Or is that something else? And then I just -- I have a follow-up.
Yes.
Look cash is fungible.
The way we kind of look at it which $1.5 billion is it? We obviously -- just the $1.6 billion of debt on the Outdoor transaction.
So we're sitting obviously flush with a lot of cash here in February.
So again it's part and parcel of the underlying $6 billion program as well as the onetime Outdoor transaction.
So the Outdoor transaction rate debts are going to raise IPO proceeds.
That gives us cash plus our free cash flow but it's all part of the program that we look at David.
So we just -- we're focused on the share count.
We're being smart about how we're buying back our stock.
But again it is our top priority.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Perfect and then maybe Les you can chime in on this one if you like.
You guys are a large organization.
You know a lot of people in Washington.
You sort of have your ears to the ground with a lot of regulatory bodies.
You obviously have a lot of well-paid attorneys.
I mean what are all these bodies kind of telling you about the process within the IRS? What's the IRS thinking? What are your attorneys telling you with regard to just level of confidence in terms of PLR approval and timing thereof? Anything you could tell us would be great.
You're right.
We are paying a lot of attorneys a lot of money way too much.
No guys guys...
Look David I think we've remained consistent on this point throughout from the time we announced this.
We feel our position is right squarely within the rules of the IRS for this.
We think there's some precedent for this.
Obviously we also have another peer of ours taking the same position.
So the timing is really kind of up to them and we'll continue to respond to any questions they have.
But we're feeling very good about our position.
We'll go next to Alan Gould with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Les you said that this year -- or Joe said this year would be a record -- a significant increase in SVOD revenues in 2014.
Were you up north of 20%? And can you give us some idea if you're close to the $450 million already in SVOD? Say the question again.
Who said $450 million? Research Division</strong> Sure.
How much was your SVOD revenue in 2014? And what percent increase was that roughly? Look Al we don't give guidance for 2014 obviously...
Research Division</strong> I meant 2013 I'm sorry.
Directionally you'll -- okay directionally it's hundreds of millions of dollars.
Again there's new deals we're doing all the time to grow that.
So really it's just a function of the content we make available.
So we have a lot of flexibility kind of in choice on what series -- for instance as an example we have 250 episodes of CSI.
300.
300 see.
300 episodes of CSI.
So we have a lot of flexibilities at how and when we do that.
So we don't want to get boxed into a growth rate percentage SVOD over SVOD.
I think an earlier question said if you just look at the content licensing and you look at that number growing I think that will be the best kind of guidance we can guide you to.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a base number of what that -- I guess you gave the licensing revenue.
You got it.
We'll take our last question from Marci Ryvicker with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a couple.
The first we've heard from a lot of the broadcasters that the pace of business in the first quarter has been pretty significantly impacted by the weather.
So just wanted to know if you're seeing the same thing across your local TV Radio Outdoor and networks.
So in essence your core might actually be stronger than your pacings would suggest.
That's the first.
No.
Marci we're not seeing that.
Actually we like the bad weather because more people are at home turning on their television sets.
So that's why our ratings are so good and we see it when there's snow.
Our ratings -- now sincerely we have not seen -- I think the advertising -- we sell advertising by the telephone or online right now.
And so we have not seen that.
We saw the reports by some of our competitors but we haven't felt the same thing.
We don't feel like that's been a factor.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I just want to confirm the accounting for syndication in SVOD.
It's my understanding that you recognize revenue when these shows become available.
So can you confirm that with all of the new deals it's actually you CBS that determines the timing of the availability of these shows? Yes.
Marci it's Joe.
It's in the contract.
So for instance the first cycle stuff is when we make that available.
So Hawaii Five-0 and Blue Bloods are later this year.
Elementary is going to be '16 or '15.
Library deals it's when again as you said the shows are made available and we'll work with our partners to see how they want to stagger availability.
So it's really contract by contract.
But again the trigger for revenue recognition is when they're made available.
But the cash flow which is equally important coming over time.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I have one last quick one for Les.
If Aereo does win the Supreme Court case is there any risk to your $2 billion retrans reverse comp target for 2020? No.
We will hit that number regardless of what happens with Aereo.
And this concludes today's call.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Have a great evening.
Thank you everyone.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.