Good morning and welcome to the Corporate Executive Board's First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through May 9 by dialing 719-457-0820.
The confirmation code for the replay is 7826859.
The replay will also be available beginning later today and through May 9 at the company's website and at www.earnings.com.
To the extent any non-GAAP financial measures discussed in today’s call you will also find a reconciliation of that measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated according to GAAP by going to the company’s website and following the Investors link to yesterday’s news release.
You will also find a PDF of the supporting materials that the company will use in its prepared remarks this morning by following the Investors link to the first quarter webcast.
Please review the second page of these materials which includes important information about any forward-looking information included in the presentation.
This conference call may also contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements among others regarding the Corporate Executive Board’s expected quarterly and annual financial performance for fiscal 2011.
For this purpose any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing discussions of forecasts estimates targets plans beliefs expectations and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
You are hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by important factors among others set forth in the Corporate Executive Board’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its first quarter's news release.
Consequently actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the conference over to the company’s Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Richard Lindahl.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
I'm Rich Lindahl Chief Financial Officer of the Corporate Executive Board and I'd like to thank you for calling or logging in to our first quarter 2011 earnings call.
Here's a quick overview of our time together this morning.
I'll begin by giving you a financial perspective on the quarter and will also review our updated 2011 guidance.
Next Tom Monahan our Chief Executive Officer will provide an update on our operational progress and the strategic priorities we are following to build long-term shareholder value then we will take your questions.
Please turn to Slide 3 of our presentation for the key messages we'd like you to take away from today's discussion.
First our performance in the first quarter reflects continued progress on key elements of our growth strategy.
Second the investments we are making in attractive growth opportunities are producing year-over-year gains in key financial metrics and finally we are capitalizing on our opportunities and updating our guidance based on improved visibility into potential 2011 outcomes.
Please turn to Slide 4 for an overview of our financial results.
At March 31 2011 Contract Value was $444.6 million which is an increase of 16.4% from March 31 2010.
This growth was broad based with solid contributions from both large corporate and middle-market members as well as by our performance analytics and Iconoculture teams.
Our North America and Asia Pacific groups continue to perform very well and our European operations also posted annual growth as the new account management model continued to mature in that region.
Revenues were $114.9 million in the first quarter of 2011 a 14.7% increase compared to $100.2 million in the first quarter of 2010.
As we have previously discussed on January 1 we adopted the FASB's new guidance on revenue recognition.
Under these new accounting rules we deferred recognition of approximately $1.5 million of revenue that would've been recognized in the first quarter under the prior rules.
We expect to defer additional amounts in Q2 and Q3 and recognize the bulk of such revenue by the end of 2011 and into 2012.
Moving on to operating expenses.
Cost of services in the first quarter of 2011 increased by $6.9 million versus the first quarter of 2010.
Personnel and other headcount-related costs were the biggest components of this change driven by the acquisition of Iconoculture investments in product development and expansion of our advisory staff.
Member relations in marketing expense increased by $9.8 million the first quarter versus the prior year period as a result of higher staffing levels in increased sales commissions due to solid year-over-year growth in bookings.
I'd note this line also reflects the bulk of our international staff investment.
General and administrative costs increased by $1.4 million in the first quarter of 2011 versus the first quarter of 2010.
In the quarter we finalized the Iconoculture earnout calculation which resulted in an incremental charge of $0.6 million.
The remainder of the annual change is attributable to modest increases in G&amp;A headcount and related costs.
Other income was $1.5 million in the first quarter of this year compared to expense of $0.5 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Foreign currency translations swung from a loss to a gain and thus accounted for the majority of the year-over-year improvement.
Adjusted EBITDA margin in the first quarter of 2011 was 20.2% versus 24.5% in the first quarter of 2010 reflecting the impact of the operating investments we have discussed over the past several quarters.
Sequentially adjusted EBITDA margin improved by 50 basis points from 19.7% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
As a reminder we do not adjust out stock compensation expense which was $2 million in the first quarter of 2011 when calculating adjusted EBITDA margin.
Depreciation and amortization in the first quarter of 2011 was $4.3 million a reduction of $0.9 million compared to the first quarter of 2010.
This reduction was driven by the completion of equipment depreciation cycles and lower intangible amortization related to Toolbox.
In the first quarter our effective tax rate was 41.2% which reflects our current estimated rate for 2011.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share in the first quarter of 2011 was $0.33 or $0.01 lower than the $0.34 we reported in the prior year period as the year-over-year growth in revenues was offset by higher operating costs.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Membership fees receivable decreased seasonally to $89.4 million at March 31 2011 as compared to $141.3 million at December 31 2010.
Average days sales outstanding were 90 days for the first quarter consistent with historical seasonal ranges.
Deferred revenues also grew seasonally as the current portion increased sequentially by $30.4 million or 12.1% to $281.6 million at March 31 2011.
As compared to the prior year deferred revenues increased by 17.2% due to improved year-over-year bookings and the inclusion of Iconoculture.
We continue to be encouraged by these trends and the favorable implications they have on our near-term revenue growth.
Cash flows from operations were $85 million in the first quarter of 2011 an increase of 18.4% versus the first quarter of 2010.
First quarter 2011 cash flows benefited from seasonally stronger collections on higher year-over-year bookings.
During the first quarter we spent $2.8 million on investing activities and paid out $5.1 million in dividends.
We ended the first quarter with $201.4 million in cash cash equivalents and marketable securities an increase of 63.1% as compared to December 31 2010.
Please turn to Slide 5 which provides additional examples of the year-over-year improvements we are seeing in key operating metrics.
As we discussed at our investor day in March you will note that we are presenting new metrics this quarter that we believe align more cleanly with how we manage our business.
On the left side of the chart you'll see the significant growth we experienced in wallet retention.
This metric is defined as the total current year contract value from prior year members as a percentage of total prior year contract value.
As such it measures our success at expanding institutional relationships through effective retention cross sell and price improvement efforts.
All three of these drivers gained traction over the past year and as you can see wallet retention grew by 28% rising from 81% in the first quarter of 2010 to 104% in the first quarter of 2011.
In the center of the page we show that we grew our customer base by 10% over the past year as total member institutions increased from 4 797 to 5 275.
This improvement reflects our success at re-engaging former members establishing new relationships with large domestic and international corporate customers and further penetrating the middle market opportunity.
The net result of all these efforts can be seen on the right-hand side of the page which shows that Contract Value per member institution grew by approximately 6% from $79 700 in the first quarter of 2010 to $84 300 in the first quarter of 2011.
We are pleased with these financial and operating outcomes which leave us on track to achieve our 2011 objectives.
Next I'll discuss our outlook.
The following comments are intended to fall under the safe harbor provisions outlined at the beginning of the call and are based on preliminary assumptions which are subject to change over time.
Please turn to Slide 6.
As we discussed in our last earnings call we have constructed our 2011 plan with an eye towards balancing profit and cash flow growth with select investments to create long-term value.
We continue to pursue sustainable top line growth attractive profitability and improving cash flow from our existing subscription business and we are making additional investments in new products and market extensions to further enhance organic growth.
With the first quarter behind us we have improved visibility into potential 2011 outcomes.
We are a bit more positive on revenue growth for this year and are therefore raising our guidance for annual revenues.
At the same time due to better-than-anticipated employee retention and recruiting results we are currently running ahead of our staffing plan.
While incrementally positive for late year productivity this factor leads us to slightly reduce the upper end of our range of adjusted EBITDA margin.
Accordingly we are raising our expectations at the lower end of guidance for non-GAAP diluted earnings per share while keeping the upper end in place.
Our updated 2011 guidance is therefore as follows: Annual revenue ranging from $480 million to $500 million; adjusted EBITDA margin of between 22% and 23%; non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $1.50 to $1.65; depreciation and amortization expense of $17 million to $18 million; and capital expenditures of $8 million to $10 million.
A few more comments on our guidance.
First I'll remind you again that we experienced certain seasonal impacts related to the patterns of our bookings throughout the year which drives variability in both quarterly income statement and cash flow results.
We saw evidence of this seasonality in the first quarter and would expect to see sequential trends throughout the remainder of 2011 that are similar to those which occurred in 2010.
Second we still expect that revenue trends will be impacted to some degree by the timing variability associated with the new revenue recognition rules which are now enforced.
As previously discussed first quarter revenues were affected by the new accounting and in some cases additional revenue recognition may be back-end weighted instead of spread evenly over the life of the member contract.
While the collection dynamics and cash flow economics of our contracts remain the same this change will somewhat dampen revenue and earnings growth in 2011 as we transition to the new rules.
That's it for the financial summary.
Please turn to Slide 7 and I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Rich and good morning.
As Rich made clear we're pleased with our progress across the first quarter of 2011.
We continue to build momentum on the top line with solid year-over-year growth in Contract Value and revenue while continuing to deploy and drive returns from investments that deliver future growth.
As I've said before we have three levers that we use to grow the business.
We've mapped them here on Page 7.
To the left.
First we grow our relationships with our existing customers.
We estimate that our penetration of our average large client is less than 15% of their capacity to utilize our current products and services.
As a result our largest growth opportunity in any period comes from simply connecting our resources to more of their people and decisions.
As you can see at the bottom of the page our focus here is on those markets where we already have a strong installed base of great customers such as North America and select highly penetrated global markets.
Second we add new customers.
Even though we already served more than 5 200 of the world's most progressive companies there's still more than 12 000 companies of the right scale that have yet to initiate a relationship with us.
In our most developed markets such as the U.S.
large corporate market we've concentrated responsibility for this into the hands of very elite teams that engaged nonmembers.
In the middle market and less penetrated international markets we're making focused investments to build the teams and deepen our penetration.
And third we add products and services that target uncovered needs in our key buying centers.
While these require investment in the near term they provide platforms for future growth and better leverage our great relationships with member companies.
Please turn to Page 8.
With the goal of moving these growth levers we set out four key priorities for the year.
Let me remind you what they are and then make some comments updating you on our progress.
First creating uniquely valuable insights into corporate performance.
Second driving loyalty growth and brand strength through high-value member engagement.
Third investing globally in key markets.
Fourth leveraging technology and service to deliver innovative products.
Let me spend a moment on each priority.
Please turn to Page 9.
We'll talk about creating uniquely valuable insights into corporate performance.
As I've said before our business begins and ends with great content built from our deep researched data and analysis.
Our objective here is to create must-have content that supports member performance and powers our own growth.
Our teams are off to a great start in 2011 producing compelling contents and enriching critical data and tools across all of our practice areas.
Some recent work in our HR practice is one great example.
As economies around the world continue to recover we are seeing competition for top talents intensify.
We built an array of data assets tools and best practice resources that help companies optimize productivity and performance from their people and so we're well prepared to help them navigate this challenging environment.
In our recent work entitled Becoming a Talent Champion we drilled down on how the most effective executives drive growth performance and better business outcomes.
Our data on corporate performance shows that the difference between the 19% of managers who are true talent champions and the rest can be material.
Business units led by the most effective talent champions generate profit growth more than 6% higher than those led by average executives.
So we built a rich set of tools and detailed best practices to help members assess their own capabilities here and take specific action steps to improve.
We've also shared some highlights for the broader business community through our first quarterly executive guidance publication.
The same data assets we've developed for the talent champion work also help members manage at the market level in key markets.
In this day and age much of our members' focus is on key emerging markets like China and India.
As members grow their businesses there we arm them with the insights and tools to economically staff their operations and grow local leaders.
We've been building a distinctive data asset in China for more than 4 years and have noticed a remarkable change in the labor market recently.
While Western multinationals have historically enjoyed a big advantage over domestic importers the great recession has dealt them and their brands a severe blow.
The changing fortune of the global brands has made it far more difficult for Western firms to compete for and win the best talent driving up recruiting costs and salaries.
Top Chinese workers now find local employers equally if not more attractive places to work.
Our team in the corporate leadership council leverage insight drawn from the multi-year data asset of more than 300 000 Chinese professionals and best practices from companies like Cisco Systems Shell and Dow Chemical to identify 5 concrete strategies and action maps that Western companies should implement now to win and compete for scarce Chinese talent.
Continuing our efforts in public thought leadership as a brand building activity a portion of these findings were shared in the featured article in the March 2011 issue of the Harvard Business Review titled The Battle for China's Talent.
These are just two of literally dozens of places where our teams are building uniquely relevant insights into corporate performance and coupling them with actual tools practices and services streams to help members succeed.
Throughout the balance of 2011 our focus will remain on ensuring that our product teams produce authoritative and uniquely valuable insight into corporate performance that we continue to globalize our research asset with continued investments in emerging markets coverage.
Please turn to Slide 10 where I'll discuss our second priority driving member loyalty growth and brand strength through high-value member engagement.
Our objective here is to leverage effective support of our members to grow Contract Value through renewals pricing and sale of additional products and services.
As Rich mentioned we are sharing some new metrics that give you a clearer view of how we run the business.
You saw that wallet retention was 104% through Q1 up from 81% in the prior year.
This metric provides an integrated view of our effectiveness at maintaining member relationships realizing price increases and selling additional products and services and it shows that in this quarter these 3 metrics together created a solid outcome.
We think that customer-based metrics like this give you the clearest view of our true economics and as we share them you'll hear us talk less about cross sell and other metrics based on product level outcomes.
As you'd guess though given the strong wallet retention number we saw good momentum in sales of additional products and services.
To consistently achieve these outcomes we need to make sure that we connect the right resource to the right member at the right time.
The real work here happens on two fronts: First great work by our accounts and advisory teams to engage members; second continued investment in technology that links our content and data assets ever more closely to the ongoing workflow at our member companies.
As you know we've worked hard on both these dimensions over the past 2 years reorganized our go-to-market teams and rebuilding our member portals and key member dashboard interfaces.
We continue to see real returns from both these efforts as users usage and member feedback continue their upward trajectory.
While everyday excellence is the foundation of support for our members we also work to support our teams with events and meetings that allow us to engage dozens if not hundreds of our members at one time.
Across the year and around the globe we'll host nearly 1 000 sessions that facilitate principles-only dialogue around key topics from our research.
And we'll punctuate these with a few larger sessions that galvanize whole segments of our business.
One particularly notable recent example was our financial services summit held in Boston this past April.
The event was a key milestone of our continued innovation of TowerGroup and showcased the resulting reach and depth and quality of the people that we deploy in this space.
Titled Sustainable Innovation in Financial Services: Driving Business and Technology to Achieve a Competitive Advantage the event hosted more than 500 attendees from more than 200 premier financial services institutions and some leading technology providers.
We also used the event to debut an interesting new data asset that tracks consumer financial information globally and perspectives across more than 25 markets at the market level.
The data set and analytic overlay allow members to highlight key tactical opportunities in markets from Malaysia to Mexico and also gives us a pretty rare look at key drivers across the global economy.
We're excited to see this data power decisions already at member companies and look forward to more impact down the road.
Please turn to Page 11 where I'll discuss our third priority investing globally in key markets.
Our objective here is to accelerate new member acquisition and growth through selective market level investments.
Achieving penetration levels in these markets not only drives growth it further strengthens a key competitive barrier as our data insights and tools become ever more global in scope.
We continue to invest in and see encouraging growth from our middle market platform our strong India presence and our growing Singapore hub.
As you'd expect our growth in the government sectors has been challenged by the difficulty getting a federal budget in place but over the long term we're optimistic that these budget challenges will create demand for higher levels of performance management and as a result the support we can uniquely provide.
Last quarter I called out in particular the opportunity to selectively add market base teams in Continental Europe where we enjoy a marquee base of loyal members that provide a solid foundation for additional investments.
Germany presents a particularly rich opportunity for us as offers for the high concentration of large corporate enterprises and a managerial culture that readily taps external advice.
Those of you who attended our Investor Day in New York this March know that we took a next step in the region in the quarter as we open a new office in Frankfurt and have made solid progress in building out a great German market team.
The small but growing German team is off to a fast start against a huge opportunity.
While Europe remains under an economic cloud we do see stability in the region and expect that our investment there will yield valuable returns.
We're working to give the team support with strong marketing investments and version of the product and are excited by the growth ahead.
Please turn to Page 12.
We'll discuss our fourth priority leveraging technology and service to deliver innovative products.
Our objective here is to create and grow revenue streams by linking research and content to new member decisions and workflows.
Last quarter I noted that you would see us de-emphasize product count as a metric moving forward.
While new products are important to our growth they aren't the only innovation that drives profit and growth.
New features or resources for existing products can drive discontinuous pricing opportunities and pave the way for profitable Contract Value growth per member which is our real objective.
We'll continue to keep you updated on what's new though.
To do this I'll share one example of how we add new features to existing products and one example of a recently launched new product.
The first is a great example of how innovation can add value to an existing product area.
Across the last year and a half we fully integrated data and technology tools from the JM Lafferty company into our core CFO program desktop and in the process fully absorbed the great Lafferty team.
This proprietary data set and suite of analytics tool called ForecastWorks [ph] helps members better formulate analyze and assess the valuation implications of alternative financial forecasts and transactions.
This is obviously heart of the plate for CFOs and as a result member response to the additions to our CFO suite has been very positive.
A powerful example of how innovation can help us develop new services that target new needs has been our Leadership Academy's platform.
This area has shown particular strength across the last several quarters.
You'll recall that our Leadership Academy team has created a set of standardized modules and a great faculty which companies use to develop the leadership business analytic and managerial skills of high potential employees in our target functions.
This not only targets a real member pain point it ensures that we develop relationships with emerging generations of talent in our core functions and that these folks use CEB data tools and best practices to do their jobs.
We've been working to extend and deepen the Leadership Academy's platform across the past several quarters by extending it to the finance teams [ph] into Finance Leadership Academy.
Similar to our Leadership Academy offerings for HR and Legal teams the Finance Leadership Academy gives high potential finance executives the tools they need to engage the business lines through strategic partner.
Focused on developing skills identified as most important to line leaders and CFOs through our own research the program has driven ROI for companies as diverse as Lockheed Martin Navistar and Seagate.
One member commented " We are getting an ROI from the Financial Leadership Academy on the acceleration of our business projects alone in addition to the increased rate of promotion from the people who go through this program." These two efforts integration of the forecast works tools into our core CFO platform and the addition of the Finance Leadership Academy suite to our Finance product line both illustrate how new combinations great content technology and service can open up new opportunities for growth either by increasing impact usage and pricing of our existing product lines or by allowing us to target new buyers and needs in our core domain.
Let me close with a brief note about the people who have powered our progress against our core priorities.
None of these achievements would be possible without the insight generosity of spirit and passion for member impact that our people display on a daily basis.
I'm proud to call them my colleagues and I'm equally proud they represent our brand and values so consistently around the world.
Given the importance of talent to our business we invest heavily in ensuring that we were able to grow and retain the top people we've got and that we attract key talent globally.
We've rolled out several new training and development programs across the past several quarters that have built an enriched career paths and development opportunities and had immediate impact on our performance.
As Rich discussed we've also turned great career opportunities and rich development programs into strong platforms for recruiting in key markets.
We believe that our team is equal to the rich opportunity in front of us.
As a leadership team our job is to put people in positions and give them the tools to realize this opportunity.
To sum up the quarter before we take questions I'm pleased with the progress we are making and see much work ahead to realize the full opportunity from the company.
We'll now take your questions.[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Can you just give us some kind of an estimate as the impact to revenue this year for the total year from the new revenue recognition rules? Do you have some kind of estimate for that? As I said there was a $1.5 million impact in the first quarter.
I would expect there could be similar types of impacts over the next couple of quarters but we should recover a large portion of that before the end of the year with the final portion coming in in the first quarter of next year.
So relatively it should be a relatively small impact for the full year but over the next couple of quarters it will be similar type of impact.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Could you just talk a little bit about some of the timing differences or anything else that might have cost the Contract Value to dip sequentially? Sure.
As we've told you before there is seasonality in our business in terms of the bookings flow with roughly 30% of our bookings in the first quarter 20% in each of the second and third quarters and 30%  in the fourth quarter.
In the first quarter bookings are more heavily weighted towards renewals and those renewals tend to be more concentrated in the early part of the quarter and to the degree that we make those up through new sales those tend to come a little bit later in the quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> So how does that impact Contract Value though? Because Contract Value is just a snapshot why would it make a difference what time in the quarter that those things are booked? Well as I said the new sales in the first quarter are -- that's kind of the smallest quarter for new sales overall.
So to the degree that you're having to make up any gap that's created by non-renewals there isn't as much momentum on a relative basis in the first quarter to do that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Great.
Can you just -- I know you haven't given out cross-sell metrics but can you talk a little bit did the cross-sell go up in both middle market and large corporate? As Tom said we are de-emphasizing the cross-sell metrics and really any metrics related to product counts because we're not managing growth purely on the basis of stand-alone product introduction so we've replaced them with wallet retention and also giving you the institution counts on a quarterly basis going forward.
And we think those provide a better overall measure of business health and how we're managing going forward.
Having said that cross-sell metrics were fine in the quarter.
They displayed a similar -- actually slightly more favorable seasonal pattern than you had in first quarter 2010 and both middle market and large corporate businesses performed well during the first quarter.
And next we'll move to Tim McHugh with William Blair &amp; Company.
I wondered if you could talk a little bit.
You mentioned that the headcount's a little bit ahead of your expectations.
I want to just ask you to talk a little bit more about a few factors impacting that.
One is talk about turnover and secondly talk about maybe the timing of sales hiring across the rest of the year have you done most of what you will do at this point? And then lastly lowest contribution from the headcount being higher than you expected is more to label -- is it fair to think it will impact later this year more so than earlier this year or what we saw in the first quarter? Sure.
As I said the biggest driver of the staffing factor that I highlighted was we've experienced somewhat more favorable retention this year than we had come into the year planning for and also we've gotten our recruiting engine fired up and has been more effective in the early part of the year.
So as a result we ended the quarter with staffing a little bit higher than we would've expected coming into the year.
Net-net we do that as a positive thing and certainly has positive implications for later in the year because it gives staff more time to ramp up to productivity and impact results for the first part of the year.
And I'm sorry I forgot the second part of your question.
That's fair.
I guess that was just the timing of sales hiring now are you pretty much done and part of why I was asking that is how we can look at member relations in marketing across the rest of the year.
No I would say we're not done.
We certainly have made a lot of progress and we're a little bit of ahead but we're not quite yet at our full year cost level cost plan so we certainly are going to continue to add incremental staffing in parts of our business and certainly the sales functions is just one of those areas.
And then you mentioned Europe return to growth as the new sales model was kicking in there.
Can you give a little more color? And is this the first time you've seen positive year-over-year growth out of Europe in the last -- or at least this cycle if you will? Tim I think what we're seeing in Europe is very broadly consistent with what we saw in North America in the first 12 months after the shift in account management model.
As you'll recall we did the cut over in North America in 2Q 2009 and throughout that year we found teams getting stronger and stronger and stronger at all aspects of their business re-introducing themselves and engaging their new customers learning to balance service renewal and cross-sell across that full year afterwards and we're finding the European team tracking right along on a very similar path.
So we're pleased with the progress the European team is making at this point in their transition.
And we're very excited because if the pattern holds it means they're going to be performing at the same high level that we've seen North America and APAC performing at now.
Is this the first time you've seen growth there? Just trying to get a sense it seems like all the growth before was U.S.
and Asia.
I just want to get a sense of how much of an improvement you've seen in Europe.
We saw pretty close to breakeven slight growth in the fourth quarter.
So a little bit better this quarter.
They're starting to pick up momentum but I think year-on-year through Q4 there was slight growth.
Now it's a good contributor.
We'll move next to Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
You said at the Investor Day you were looking for a medium term revenue guidance or revenue growth look of 8% to 13% it looks like you're already at the top end of that range now should we expect you to push above that? Or how are you thinking about the 8% to 13% as it looks like you're at the top already? Hey Paul.
It's Tom.
I think -- we put those numbers out there as a good long-term multi-year look at how we expect the business to grow.
And I think they're still very valid for multiple periods.
In the near term remember we're bouncing back off an easy comp from last year at this time.
So that does make the numbers look good.
And we'll always going to push to get to the upper end of that range and beyond.
It was late in the quarter it was clear that we were ahead of that range we gave you.
I wasn't running around saying stop stop.
So we will always look for opportunities to do that.
But I think over the long term on an organic basis that range gives you some sense of how we're building the business to perform.
And the dimensions of the growth we're broadly in line with the dimensions of the growth we outlined at the Investor Day but we'll always look for ways to push to the top and beyond if we can if the market's allowing it but we want to make sure we're building the company for that repeatable range that we showed you.
And next we'll go to Gary Bisbee of Barclays Capital.
Thanks again for the new metrics.
I think they're a nice improvement.
I guess a couple of questions on that.
We've not seen a total member count obviously historically on a quarterly basis so and it was only up a couple from the year end.
So should we think anything into that or is there some seasonality of that metric or bumpiness that we should just expect or you want to explain? Yes hey Gary.
It's Rich.
Yes I mean there is some seasonality just as I was talking before about new sales and how they flow through the year and they're going to tend to be lighter in the early part of the year and build up as we go through the year with more of an impact in the fourth quarter.
I think it's reasonable to assume that institution counts while there will be any number of factors that will influence quarter-to-quarter variability throughout the course of the year you should see them follow a similar trend.
With the wallet retention metric I realize it's based on Contract Value but should we think of that that's sort of 104% so 4% of the growth coming from existing customers and the remainder of the nearly 15% revenue growth or I guess the 16.4% Contract Value growth would be new customer sales in M&amp;A are the numbers that straightforward? Is that how we should get build up to that reported number? Yes.
I mean I think the wallet retention is a good proxy for that kind of existing customer growth.
I mean that's what it's intended to portray and then remember the 8% to 13% is an organic growth rate only.
In the quarter we certainly had a contribution of the overall revenue growth from Iconoculture still.
We acquired them in the second quarter of last year and it was roughly about the same as what it was last quarter.
So that implies that certainly the contribution from new customers was a little bit higher in the second quarter I mean -- sorry in the first quarter in those indicated ranges but as Tom said there's some variability quarter-to-quarter and we're coming off of an easier compare from last year but longer term we still feel good about that multi-year revenue growth guidance we gave you in March.
And so just trying to dig it out a little further is it right to assume then that new customer wins and new sales was quite a bit larger contribution to the total Contract Value or revenue growth than the existing customer? On a relative basis in this quarter yes.
You mentioned the 12 000 customers not using any of the company's services.
I'm sure you don't want to get into this on a regular basis but as a starting off point any willingness to give us a sense of sort of how that breaks down whether it's U.S.
versus international mid-market versus large customers any color there? Sure Gary.
It's Tom.
The easy way to think about it is there's about 12 000 companies that would be in our power alleys globally that don't yet have their first CEB membership that number's probably a little higher sum up every market globally gets you closer to 15 000.
The overwhelming majority of those are going to be middle market companies what we define as companies between $100 million in sales and $1 billion in sales.
They're pretty sizable companies.
These aren't mom and pops they're not small- and medium-sized businesses They're a significant size operating companies but probably a better fit for the middle market products suite.
Beyond that you'd see international companies where we are still under-penetrated in most major markets.
We've got a healthy list of great companies in pretty much every market we operate in but we don't go as deep or reaches broadly as we do in North America.
And then third there are still a decent size chunk of large North American companies that don't have their first CEB membership with us.
Now 85% of the Fortune 500 have at least one membership with us so that says the number's pretty small as you get to the upper end of the market but there are still some companies beneath that level that don't have that first relationship.
Our penetration rate dips a little bit as you get even smaller large corporate companies if you will.
So if you think about it from share of that large number it's mostly middle market followed by international followed by large corporate.
Just one last question from me.
As we think about the trend I think Rich you said seasonality of things would look similar to last year.
Should we think about then -- that seems to imply costs jumping quite a bit again sequentially into the second quarter.
Should we think about the operating or EBITDA margin falling sequentially like it did last quarter? Or are there anything you want to say about sort of trends and costs? Yes.
I mean I think what I said before was that we're not fully at our full cost plan for the year.
I wouldn't necessarily -- again we don't provide quarterly guidance.
So I wouldn't expect necessarily the same relative percent increase on expenses that you saw last year but in terms of whether margins are going to go down I wouldn't necessarily expect that either.
I guess what I would say is that we would expect to see more improvement in margins in the second half of the year than in the first half of the year.
In that last comment just to be clear down year-over-year you're talking about not sequentially versus what you just reported for the first quarter? Yes I mean certainly down year-over-year.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Dan Leben at Robert W.
Baird.
First you talked about the retention side on the member relations in marketing.
Could you talk about the kind of magnitude of retention running ahead of plan on the cost of services side on the research part? I mean I think broadly speaking our employee retention is better than we had expected.
And so that applies really across the board.
It wasn't just limited to the sales organization.
And Dan as we talked about we put programs in place to make sure we're giving people great training great development paths and we can not only compete for great new employees but give people robust career paths and so far that's paying off in the margin in terms of our ability to keep the best people we want and give them exciting career runs that's important to us.
And then second question thinking about the seasonality on Contract Value.
If we look back historically prior to the recession year-over-year the first quarter was higher than the fourth quarter in terms of Contract Values.
Is there something that's changed in the seasonality of the business over the last 2 years in terms of just with the change in membership base moving to the mid-market the timing of the quarters anything there that's kind of changed the seasonality to where we should kind of permanently expect the first quarter to dip? No.
I think what I would remind you of is that certainly overall the Contract Value was growing at a much higher rate in that historical time period.
But if you do look at the transition from fourth to first quarter you did see even though it didn't go down you saw a smaller rate of growth from fourth to first.
So I would say the same seasonality factor was there.
It's just as we apply it on a lower relative overall rate of growth that's leading to a slight decline this year and last year.
And next we move to Suzy Stein with Morgan Stanley.
I was just wondering if you could provide any more detail on International.
Are you seeing any change in the competitor response as you ramp up and are there any markets that stand out as getting increasingly more competitive? At a very macro level we still see not from a competitive dynamic standpoint but from a underlying health of the economy standpoint I still think we're living in a 3-speed world where APAC economies feel very strong maybe in some cases you can worry about the rate at which they're growing creating some overheating.
You've got North America which feels very solid and Europe which feels mixed.
There are some very solid markets where we're pleased with our performance there are some markets where the team is making great progress but the underlying economies are still a little bit challenged.
So I'd say more driven by macroeconomic circumstances less driven by unique competitive dimensions.
Our story and when we were sitting across from the executive anywhere in the world any of 50-plus markets we sell into is never that we're the best source of local market insight whether that's in Philadelphia or in Jakarta.
I mean it's just we bring global perspective and global resources to bear which we then version down to make useful for them.
So local competitors tend not to vary so much and there's no particular news on the global competitive set front.
And then just separately can you address your priorities for capital deployment now just between share buybacks increasing dividends and acquisitions? Sue it's Rich again.
I would say our priorities really haven't changed since how we articulated them at the Investor Day and earlier.
First priority maintain a strong financial position which we're certainly in today.
Second maintain a profile of returning cash to shareholders and we view the dividend as the primary vehicle for that at this stage.
And then finally maintain flexibility to pursue opportunistic investments as they present themselves.
And at this time we have no further questions.
Mr.
Monahan I'll turn the conference back over to you.
Thanks very much.
Thanks everyone for calling and logging in this morning allowing us to update you on the EXBD story.
We look forward to seeing you out on the road over the coming months.
As a quick reminder Rich and Barry will be at the Barclays Capital event in Boston next week.
Rich and I will be at the BofA Merrill event later this month in New York and we'll be at the Blair event in Chicago next month.
We look forward to using these opportunities to catch up with people live and keep you up to date on our story.
Thanks very much.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Again thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Corporate Executive Board's Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through August 10 by dialing (719) 457-0820.
The confirmation code for the replay is 5170146.
The replay will also be available beginning later today and through August 10 at the company's website and at www.earnings.com.
To the extent any non-GAAP financial measures discussed in today’s call you will also find a reconciliation of that measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated according to GAAP by going to the company’s website and following the Investors link to yesterday’s news release.
You will also find a PDF of the supporting materials that the Company will use in its prepared remarks this morning by going to the Investors page and clicking on the second quarter webcast.
Please review the second page of these materials which includes important information about forward-looking information included in the presentation.
This conference call may contain -- may also contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements among others regarding the Corporate Executive Board’s expected quarterly and annual financial performance for fiscal 2011.
For this purpose any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing discussions of forecasts estimates targets plans beliefs expectations and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
You are hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by important factors among others set forth in the Corporate Executive Board’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its second quarter news release.
Consequently actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the conference over to the company’s Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Richard Lindahl.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
I'm Rich Lindahl Chief Financial Officer of the Corporate Executive Board and I'd like to thank you for calling or logging in to our second quarter 2011 earnings call.
Here's a quick overview of our time together this morning.
I'll begin by giving you a financial perspective on the quarter and we'll also review our 2011 outlook.
Next Tom Monahan our Chief Executive Officer will provide an update on our operational progress and the strategic priorities we are following to build long-term shareholder value.
Then we will take your questions.
Please turn to Slide 3 of our presentation for the key messages we'd like you to take away from today's discussion.
First our growth continues at a solid pace.
Second the operating trends of the business remain healthy.
And finally we are on track to deliver our annual commitments.
Now I'll comment more on this last point shortly as it is important to note that with our 2011 investment plan largely complete we expect improved margins through the second half with the most significant gains coming in the fourth quarter.
Please turn to Slide 4 for an overview of our financial results.
At June 30 2011 Contract Value was $456.8 million which is an increase of 11.4% from June 30 2010.
Virtually all parts of our business contributed to the growth with the strongest relative performance seen in North America and Asia Pacific.
We did see some groups lag our firm average most notably in the government sector which remains challenged by the ongoing federal budget uncertainty and in Europe where our teams are still completing the commercial transition begun last year and managing through still sluggish and uncertain macroeconomic conditions.
Revenues were $119.2 million in the second quarter of 2011 an 8.8% increase compared to $109.6 million in the second quarter of 2010.
As we have previously discussed on January 1 we adopted the FASB's new guidance on revenue recognition.
Under these new accounting rules we deferred recognition of approximately $2.1 million of revenue in the second quarter that would have previously been recognized under the prior rules.
This additional amount brings our total year-to-date deferral to $3.6 million.
We expect another such net deferral of revenue to occur in the third quarter before recognizing a portion of the year-to-date deferrals in the fourth quarter and the remainder of such revenue in early 2012.
As a result we currently estimate that the full year net deferral of revenue from 2011 into 2012 will be approximately $3.5 million.
Revenues were also influenced by the timing of bookings through the quarter.
April bookings were relatively slow which tempered the second quarter revenue growth even though the pace of bookings increased solidly in May and especially June.
Moving on to operating expenses cost of services in the second quarter of 2011 increased by $4.6 million versus the second quarter of 2010.
Personnel and other compensation costs were again the biggest component of this change driven by the acquisition of Iconoculture investments in product development and expansion of our advisory staff.
We also saw increases in more variable costs linked to the size of our business space such as travel member meetings and content delivery.
Member relations and marketing expense increased by $5.9 million in the second quarter versus the prior-year period as a result of higher staffing levels and increased sales commissions due to the cumulative growth in bookings.
As a reminder this line also reflects the bulk of our international staff investment which has increased as we pursue growth opportunities in Asia and Europe.
General and administrative costs increased by $2.1 million in the second quarter of 2011 versus the second quarter of 2010.
This rise was driven by higher head count recruiting and system enhancement expenses.
Other income was $0.3 million in the second quarter compared to a net expense of $0.8 million in the second quarter of 2010.
Most of the year-over-year improvement can be attributed to last year's $0.9 million decrease in the fair value of deferred compensation plan assets in the second quarter of 2010.
Adjusted EBITDA margin in the second quarter of 2011 was 18.9% versus 22.1% in the second quarter of 2010 reflecting an annual reduction which resulted from the impact of the operating investments we have discussed over the past several quarters.
As a reminder we do not adjust our stock compensation expense which was $2.1 million in the second quarter of 2011 when calculating adjusted EBITDA margin.
Depreciation and amortization in the second quarter of 2011 was $4.6 million a decrease of $1.1 million compared to the second quarter of 2010.
This reduction is attributed to lower amortization from Toolbox and intangible assets and the completion of equipment depreciation cycles.
In the second quarter our effective tax rate was 42.9%.
During the quarter we recognized a discrete event related to the realized ability of a state deferred tax asset causing an increase in the rate for the quarter.
We continue to estimate however that our tax rate will be approximately 41% for the year excluding the effects of unrealized currency translation gains and losses.
Diluted earnings per share in the second quarter of 2011 was $0.30 or $0.02 lower than the $0.32 we reported in the prior year period as the year-over-year growth in revenues was offset by the higher operating costs associated with our investment plan for this year.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Membership fees receivable decreased seasonally to $87.8 million at June 30 2011 as compared to $141.3 million at December 31 2010.
Average days sales outstanding were 67 days for the second quarter consistent with historical seasonal ranges.
Deferred revenues declined seasonally and the current portion was $260.2 million at June 30 2011.
As compared to the prior year deferred revenues increased by 14.5% from the second quarter of 2010 due to improved year-over-year bookings.
We continue to be encouraged by these trends and the favorable implications they have on our near term revenue growth.
Year-to-date cash flows from operations were $54.3 million through June 30 2011 a decrease of 3.2% versus the first half of 2010.
The cash flow benefits from recent booking trends were offset primarily by higher incentive payments made this year as compared to 2010.
During the first half of 2011 we spent $4.6 million on capital expenditures and paid out the Iconoculture earnout and hold back.
We also paid $10.3 million in dividends in the first 2 quarters of this year and finished with $159.6 million in cash cash equivalents and marketable securities on hand at June 30 2011.
So to sum up the quarterly financials.
Our cumulative growth and bookings has led to solid improvements in Contract Value revenues and deferred revenues while our first half operating investments tempered the relative -- the related impact on profits.
Please turn to Slide 5 for an update on the new operating metrics we have been providing this year.
The headline here is that the trends remain healthy and continue to demonstrate growth in the key drivers of both our current and future revenue.
On the left side of the chart you'll see another solid year-over-year increase in Wallet retention.
This metric is defined as the total current year Contract Value from prior year members as a percentage of total prior-year Contract Value.
As such it measures our success at expanding institutional relationships through effective retention cross-sell and price improvement efforts.
All 3 of these drivers gained traction over the past year and as you can see Wallet retention grew by 13% rising from 91% in the second quarter of 2010 to 103% in the second quarter of 2011.
In the center of the page we showed that we grew our customer base by 7% over the past year as total member institutions increased from 5 024 to 5 378.
This improvement reflects are success in reengaging former members establishing new relationships with large domestic and international corporate customers and further penetrating the middle market opportunity.
The net result of all these efforts can be seen on the right-hand side of the page which shows the Contract Value per member institution grew by approximately 4% from $81 600 in the second quarter of 2010 to $84 900 in the second quarter of 2011.
Next I'll discuss our outlook.
The following comments are intended to fall under the Safe Harbor provisions outlined at the beginning of the call and are based on preliminary assumptions with are subject to change over time.
Please turn to Slide 6.
As we discussed on our last earnings call we have constructed our 2011 plan with an eye towards balancing profit and cash flow growth with select investments to create long term value.
Given both seasonality factors and our strategy of deploying investment resources early in the year we anticipated that full year earnings growth would be back-end loaded.
We continue to pursue sustainable top line growth attractive profitability and improving cash flow from our existing subscription business.
And we have made additional investments in new products and market extensions to further enhance organic growth.
Our year-to-date results keep us on track to deliver on a financial outlook we provided to you in May and we are currently pacing to the midpoint of our guidance ranges.
Our Contract Value and deferred revenue balances point to continued growth in quarterly revenues.
Where we land the full year will be a function of both second-half bookings performance and the degree to which we recognize revenue in the year that has been deferred under the new accounting guidelines.
With our annual investment plan largely complete we expect total quarterly operating expenses to remain relatively flat through year end.
Accordingly we currently anticipate improved revenues and earnings during the second half of 2011 and as a result we are reaffirming our 2011 outlook as follows: annual revenues ranging from $480 million to $500 million; adjusted EBITDA margin of between 22% and 23%; non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $1.50 to $1.65; depreciation and amortization expense of approximately $17 million to $18 million; and capital expenditures of approximately $8 million to $10 million.
Before I close I just want to emphasize an important point about our outlook.
Because we are transitioning into 2011 to the new revenue recognition accounting rules we are experiencing a onetime change in quarterly EPS patterns.
While we still expect to see typical seasonal bookings trends drive flat or perhaps modest growth in operating expenses a portion of the revenue from contracts we've already booked will not begin to flow through our income statement until the fourth quarter.
As a result while we anticipate some sequential improvement in both revenues and earnings in the third quarter we expect to see larger gains in the fourth quarter as we deliver against our full year 2011 outlook.
That's it for the financial summary.
Please turn to Slide 7 and I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Rich.
Good morning.
As Rich articulated we made steady progress through the first half of 2011 and remain on track to deliver on our annual commitments.
Our goal was to invest early in the year and steadily generate bookings growth against an annual target.
With our 2011 investment plan largely complete and bookings tracking to plan we're well set-up for Contract Value and revenue growth and margin expansion across the back half of the year particularly in the fourth quarter.
On balance the business as a whole is performing well with as usual some pockets of particular strength and/or challenge.
The economic picture may be far from robust but most of our markets have remained stable.
This gives our teams a solid platform for engaging and supporting executive members.
And like our member companies we've also got our eyes on policymakers today and we'll adapt our strategy accordingly as macro- and policy conditions unfold.
As a reminder we invest in 3 levers to grow the business which are captured on Slide 7.
First we grow relationships with existing customers.
This is our largest and most scalable growth opportunity overtime as we work to connect more of our resources to the more than 5 300 member companies already in our network.
Second we add new customers.
More than 17 000 companies across the globe have yet to initiate a relationship with us.
We are concentrating our investments in markets with large opportunities such as middle market and select international markets.
Third we had new products and services that target uncovered needs in our key buying centers.
Developing these products and services requires near term investments that provides platforms for future growth and helps strengthen relationships with member companies.
The second 2 leverage represent the bulk of our investment activity which does result in short-term margin compression as we set initiatives in motion.
As I outlined on our Q4 call and updated you on last quarter we have 4 core priorities for 2011 that focus on moving these growth leverages.
We've captured these on Slide 8.
First creating uniquely valuable insights into corporate performance; second driving loyalty growth and brand strength through high-value member engagement; third investing globally in key markets; and fourth leveraging technology in service to deliver innovative products.
Let me update you on progress against each of these priorities.
Please turn to Slide 9 where I will discuss our first priority creating uniquely valuable insights into corporate performance.
As always our objective is to create must-have research data analytics and content that engages our members and underpins growth.
We believe that our business begins and ends with great content built from our deep research powerful data and unique analytic tools.
I'm very pleased with our progress on this front across the first half of 2011.
Last quarter I showed the highlights from recent work in our HR practice on building an effective strategy in China and we have great work being developed all over the firm from resources to help technology executives extract value from mounting piles of data to tools that help strategize and navigate emerging markets to data that helps sales executives streamline and close consensus-based sales.
Some recent work from our governance legal and risk area is equally noteworthy.
Helping companies manage all aspects of what we call corporate integrity has been an important growth area for us.
It's an area where our ability to bring powerful analysis and practical resources to the table has created real value.
We find that the realms of integrity and ethics are often long on emotional appeal but short on either deep-data or hard-edged economic focused.
Five years ago our members asked us to fill this gap and take a hard look of the factual relationship between employee misconduct corporate culture and corporate performance.
And to create tools and best practices we're driving high integrity performance cultures.
Five years later thanks to the participation of more than 130 member companies and over 500 000 of their employees we have built a rich data asset that provides a global map of corporate integrity and clearly defines how managing integrity can lift corporate performance.
As you can imagine we leveraged this outstanding asset in many ways.
In our recent work entitled Turning Ethics Into Outcomes we outlined 3 key steps for managing risk and improving performance.
Arming leaders with the tools and practices to generate what we call integrity capital has real economic benefit.
Integrity leaders incur 1/8 the cost of misconduct compared to competitors and have 12% lower labor costs because their employees invest more discretionary effort.
These are just 2 of the reasons companies with strong integrity capital deliver shareholder returns 5.8 percentage points higher than the average company across the long term.
We recently hosted an event at the New York Stock Exchange entitled Making Integrity Pay to examine the impact of corporate culture on business performance.
The event featured a roundtable discussion with some member company's CEOs.
Greg Babe CEO of Bayer Corporation; Jeffrey Immelt CEO of GE; Gord Nixon Chief Executive of The Royal Bank of Canada; and Glenn Renwick CEO of Progressive Insurance.
Each of these companies have been identified by our research as having a high integrity culture and it was great to talk about what practices they had put in place to drive great outcomes.
Please turn to Slide 10 where I'll discuss our second priority driving member loyalty growth and brand strength through high-value engagement.
As a reminder our objective here is to leverage effective support of our members to grow our business through renewals pricing power and the sale of additional products and services.
Wallet retention was again at the high end of our historical range at 103% compared to 91% at this time last year.
As a reminder this metric provides an integrated view of our effectiveness at maintaining member relationships realizing price increases and selling additional products and services.
We're pleased with the solid outcome for the quarter.
You've also heard us commit to adding capacity in our new sales team both in the large corporate and middle markets.
We've been successful in adding high caliber talent to both sets of teams and are now getting new hires up to speed quickly in the marketplace.
You can see the results of this investment in our continued new member growth.
As you know we also punctuate our daily support for members with a variety of events and meetings across the year that allow us to engage many members at once.
One particularly noteworthy example in this quarter was our Enterprise Council on Small Business Summit.
We hosted the event in New Orleans.
It was a great venue for convening more than 250 marketers and sales leaders from more than 130 companies and we took the time to highlight and engage directly with the entrepreneurs and small businesses helping the city recover post-Katrina.
The Enterprise Council on Small Business helps marketers and sales people at our member companies understand and reach the small business marketplace.
It's a giant opportunity yet one that most corporations find difficult to crack.
We use the summit to share insights on customer advocacy drawn from our extensive data on small business owner preferences.
Sessions explore how small business referrals occur as well as how to tap the silent majority of satisfied small-business customers whose positive experiences don't translate into vocal endorsements.
One of the big highlights of the event was our honoring member company Staples with the first-ever Small Business Choice Award which reflected the opinions of thousands of small business owners in our data set.
We are proud to honor them for their innovative strategies and to outline their best practices in reaching this market.
Please turn to Slide 11 where I'll discuss our third priority investing globally in key markets.
Our objective here is to accelerate new member acquisition and growth of existing members through select market level investments.
We see much opportunity to drive both growth and strengthen our competitive barriers by achieving higher penetrations -- higher penetration levels in our key markets.
However tapping this opportunity does require near-term investment to lay a foundation in in-market sales and service and content adaptation.
While we can leverage our global data research and best practice assets it is important that we invest in making our support highly relevant to companies in target markets.
At the midpoint of 2011 we've made very solid progress putting resources in place in our key markets.
Along with continued strength in North America large corporate our middle market platform and our expanding presence in the Asia-Pacific region these all continue to produce growth above the firm's average.
As you'd expect our efforts in the government market continue to be challenged in the near term by budget difficulties at the federal and state levels.
However our team continues to produce results proving the resonance of our resources even in this cloudy environment.
We continue to believe that long term trends toward performance management to optimize scarce budget dollars will create higher levels of demand for our products in this very large market.
Last quarter I also called out our opportunity in the EMEA region and our investment in establishing a Germany-based team.
We've also updated you over the last several quarters about our go-to-market transitions in the region.
While we have completed these transitions and investments the economic cloud in Europe has slowed our overall growth rate.
We see long term opportunity in the region and are supporting our teams with strong marketing investment and versioning of the product set to make sure we're positioned for continued growth.
Please turn to Slide 12 where I'll discuss our fourth priority leveraging technology and service to deliver innovative products.
Our objective here is to create and grow revenue streams by linking research and content to new member decisions and workflows.
Last quarter I noted that you would see us de-emphasize product count as a metric going forward.
While new products are important to our growth they aren't the only way we invest in our products set.
Our teams are also intensely focused on developing innovative new features and resources for our existing products which can broaden our usage increase stickiness and add to our pricing power.
This quarter I want to share 2 examples of these new features.
The first is a great example of how we continue to innovate in some of our most established products.
One of our strongest platforms has historically been our product for heads of procurement the Procurement Strategy Council.
As you would imagine our rate franchise here is not only an attractive opportunity on its own given the big dollar decisions on these executives desks but it's also strategically important as these executives can be a key influencer on other buying decisions.
We've recently added new service to this platform called Bootcamps.
We heard from procurement heads that they need our help getting their teams to use our tools and data as part of their everyday work flow.
We've developed these sessions for their category level teams.
Let's say the team responsible for managing travel vendors or even more challenging categories like legal spending can work through practical applications of our content with their peers from other companies.
These case-study-based sessions are built around the most cutting edge topics in procurement and efficiently transfer our data best practices and tools into the workflows of our member organizations.
These resources allow us to couple are senior-level insights with direct impact on vendor negotiations.
And they ensure that members actually reap real cost savings from our tools.
Market response has been overwhelmingly positive and has increased the growth rate and stickiness of the product.
One member commented "I love practical approaches and I'm going to be able to bring a lot of improvement opportunities right back to my company.
Thank you for the game-changing insights".
The second is an example of how our installed base can be a platform for upgrades and additional services.
As you know our strong middle market platform supports heads of HR at hundreds of midsize companies through the Human Resources Leadership Council product.
We found that these executives face an urgent need how to develop and train line managers without the resources to implement a formal company-wide program.
We were able to reengineer and repackage tools and resources from elsewhere in our HR practice into a turnkey solution on demand for our members.
The resulting solution focuses on the most critical managerial skills as identified by more than 10 years of HR practice research and employs a blend-in learning approach with the e-learning content detailed online manuals online tactical tools templates and diagnostics to reinforce key skills and help managers incorporate them into their daily work.
Market reception has been very strong.
We repositioned this service as an upgrade option to our existing product and member response has been great.
You'll recall that when we originally barged into the middle-market we expected that our products will be priced in the $7 000 to $10 000 range.
Now thanks to creative product upgrades like this our average middle-market product relationship is priced in the $12 000 to $15 000 dollar range.
Beyond our investments in new product development we are also continuing to bring our recent acquisitions to CEB caliber scale and ultimately CEB caliber margins.
We're pleased with the early results but continue to see opportunities to reap further benefits from tighter integrations.
Let me close with a note about our leaders and our people.
When we talk about making investments in the business we are really talking about developing the people we have and adding great new CEB caliber talent to the business.
Across the first half of the year we saw great success on both fronts.
We continue to see great outcomes in attracting retaining and developing key staff partly as a result of specific investments in training and development and partly as a result of great efforts by our leaders to coach and mentor proven and new staff.
I'm delighted by the quality of hires we've made and they join a highly engaged team committed to moving our business forward.
To summarize our outlook on the year.
With our 2011 investment plan now largely complete and bookings tracking toward an annual plan we are well positioned to deliver our annual commitments for revenue and profit.
We'll now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And first we'll go to David Ridley-Lane with Merrill Lynch.
So just to make sure the second quarter operating expenses were they're roughly in line with your internal budget or were there some unexpected costs in the quarter? I would say that they were consistent with our expectations.
There were a couple things that aren't really material enough to call out that were more onetime in nature that had an impact there but certainly they were consistent with the pattern we had expected expenses to follow through the year.
Okay.
And are you -- have you seen any client pushback to the price increases you instituted at the start of the year? And then are you running more towards the high or the low end of that 3% to 5% range here as we sit in the middle of the year? Yes I would say we have not seen material pushback.
I think we've been able to justify the enhanced value that we're delivering consistent with those price increases.
And we are in that range and we're probably trending a little bit towards the higher end.
Okay great.
And then you've been kind enough in the past as we talked about financial services clients and how the growth rate there has been.
If you have those numbers handy I'd love to sort of check in on those clients.
Hey David this is Tom.
I'd say the growth in the business has been pretty even across all sectors.
And that would include Financial Services which is as you know was the deeply challenged sector and is still our largest sector.
I'd say Financial Services' performance was in line with other sectors across the quarter and across the last 12 months.
As a whole it makes up give or take 20% of our business and so it's a very important sector.
It's good to see it being a lot healthier than it was.
From a sectoral basis the only sector we've seen with particular challenges remains government the state and federal level where those budget issues have made it harder for our team to grow.
They're still growing the business but they're for obvious reasons lagging the firm growth rate largely as a result of budget certainty rather than budget level for a good chunk of the first half of the year.
A lot of people in a lot of places just weren't sure whether they even had a budget to operate with.
So we're thinking that as things start to move through Congress we'll be in a better position to grow that business at a fast rate.
That's the really -- the only real sector news of note.
Okay great and I'll try this.
Your kind enough to share sort of the inter-quarter bookings trend.
Any comment on July? Yes I mean we really don't provide inter-quarter commentary while the quarter is going on but suffice to say that we're comfortable we're heading in the right direction.
And next we'll go to Tim McHugh with William Blair &amp; Company.
Just following up a little bit on that question.
Can you talk a little bit about what was different in April versus May and then it sounds like especially June? What parts of the business performed better or worse I guess that kind of swung around that performance? Hey Tim it's Tom.
I think part of what we saw was a very very strong Q1.
We got out of the gates fast worked very hard to get off to a good start and did a great job closing out the Q1 pipeline.
As we look back at April it didn't seem to be so much market factors as us just having to rebuild some pipelines as we came off a strong quarterly close.
And as teams did that and stayed very focused throughout the quarter we saw some a momentum built.
And obviously we continue to work on refining sales processes in our approaches so that we can even out bookings throughout the quarter but I think this was a situation where a strong quarter led to a little bit of a dry pipeline at the start of the next one that the teams then mobilized against.
Okay.
And then can you talk a little bit more or give a little more color on Europe? It sounded like --  you said the -- you're commentary there was a little softer than last quarter when you were describing an accelerating or improving signs of performance there.
You mentioned a softer economic environment.
Is that in relation to -- I guess one just comment on that? And then secondly can you comment on does -- how does that differ between the change in kind of the sales model over there versus the new investments that you're making into the market? Is it impacting both or are you seeing a particular change or difference in one of those versus what you might have expected? I think the larger story in Europe is that we're only one year into the channel change and probably only about 5 6 months into the investment profile we put in place.
So it's early days on both.
We continue to see the teams track toward a rate of improvement that looks very broadly comparable with what we saw in North America.
It is safe to say though there are more markets in that part of the world that are deeply challenged and as a result growth rate in Europe is lower than the firm average growth rate.
They're still growing and they're getting the good outcomes.
And we're seeing the teams mature and learn the new models and penetrate these markets at a deeper rate than we have historically but it's lagging a little bit the profile we're seeing in North America and we think some of that is the fact that there was some cloudiness in the macroeconomic situation in Europe in the first half.
But we're pleased with the team's progress and we think we're very well set-up for a good second half.
Does that performance in anyway make you want to I guess toss the pace of additional investments beyond what you've made in a given time for some of those to play out or would you continue to be aggressive in expanding kind of your presence over in Europe? Our plan for the year was always to make the investments in the first half.
So we are more comfortable with the investment levels we put in place and now we're working earning returns from them.
And I think our guidance shows that towards the second half of the year we're going to be more about realizing returns from investments than making additional investments.
We'll of course find selective places to put money to work but we are comfortable.
We got off to a fast start got the right people and the right investments in the right places and that we're working hard to keep growing.
And next we'll go to Gary Bisbee with Barclays Capital.
I guess just a little bit more color if you could on the commentary that you expect cost to be broadly flat in the second half.
With this level it seems to me with revenue likely accelerating you'd probably see cost of services rising at least a bit.
And I assume there's still some follow-through on these membership relations investments you've made.
Does that mean G&amp;A would be down? Or you sort of think on across all of the cost lines broadly that the sequential growth in cost will slow? Yes.
I'll take that on Gary it's Rich.
I think -- let me just start by just reiterating a couple of things that I think are helpful to remember.
First as we said a couple times already we intentionally deployed some investment resources early in the year and some of these are clearly cost that do add to our run rate and will remain in place for the second half.
But there are some others like recruiting and some third-party expenses to support product development that are going to dissipate as we slow down hiring and move into deployment mode on a number of products we've been developing.
Another big influence from the second quarter that we've talked about in the past is some seasonal factors that come into play and drive some higher expenses in the second quarter.
And these are things like service delivery from an increase volume of our executive meeting series and also the impact you have on higher payroll taxes as we pay out annual incentives.
We're going to get some benefits on the margins from the second sublease that we had put in place.
We started realizing those benefits in the second quarter about midway through the second quarter.
That's roughly $450 000 a month in reduced rent expense.
That's going to help out going forward.
And as I mentioned in response to David's question again while none of them are material enough to call out separately we did have a few items that hit in the quarter that were more onetime in nature and most of those actually hit in the G&amp;A line.
So if we kind of look forward from here sequentially I would say cost of services is probably likely to be flat potentially down sequentially as seasonal factors in the product expenses normalized.
I think you may see some increases on the member relations and marketing side depending on booking trends and some decisions we may make to add some capacity to set up for 2012.
And I do think you'll see G&amp;A cost decrease as we move sequentially through the rest of the year.
So net-net we think OpEx is relatively flat could be a little down could be a little up but relatively flat to second quarter for the third and fourth quarters.
That's really helpful.
I appreciate that.
I guess the follow-up on that.
When I think about the business historically and I realize you've changed the model a lot but during the years when there was real consistent revenue growth for year after year after year the member relations investments or the sales head count when you used to give us that metric you really needed 25% sales head count growth to deliver 25% revenue.
And there was never a whole lot of leverage on that line.
so where you got the leverage overtime was much more I would guess on cost of services and in G&amp;A and I would guess it was selling more of the service -- selling an existing subscription to more customers and getting the leverage on research I guess how do we think about the capacity that's within your business right now for if we're about to enter and hopefully a couple year period of solid revenue growth to start to get leverage again.
Any commentary on what that can look like from high level? Yes.
I think as we've talked about over the last couple of quarters and at the Investor Day I think fundamentally our economic model is essentially the same.
And I think the way you described it is pretty accurate at a high level.
We do expect to see better leverage overall on cost of service over time.
We have deployed additional resources in cost of service in a form of executive advisers to provide a better customer experience and better retention and healthier sustainable revenue growth overtime.
We are also -- have been making investments in the member relations and marketing line not only to add capacity but also to provide support and training and infrastructure to make our salespeople as effective as they can be over time.
And clearly in G&amp;A that's where we would expect the most leverage overtime as well.
So we do have the ability.
We have high visibility as we go through to our annual planning cycles and we set up our investment plan every year consistent with that with the goal of continuing to deliver attractive revenue growth and profitability overtime.
And so would it be a reasonable statement to make that given all the investments you made this year in 2012 if you hit the longer-term revenue targets you laid out in Investor Day that the business is set up to have some decent leverage come back into the model mixture? You know I think that opportunity is there but that's a decision that we'll make as we go through our planning cycle in terms of what opportunities do we see to drive additional investments to drive better revenue performance over time.
I guess one last question.
Tom you talked about investing in additional tools and insights to I guess enrich some of the existing products.
I know that's been a focus for a while here.
Is that work being done by the existing research staff or is there a new layer of investment maybe IT people cost that we should think about over time coming into the business as you continue to focus on that? Gary I think it depends on the nature of the investment of the feature we're adding Certainly sometimes the technology investment that we make that can either be done by our own technology team that's obviously contractable in the outside and we have partners we work with.
And when Rich talks about some onetime expense that's where you might see that.
There might be development expense to bring a new layer of analytic manipulation to a great data set we've got.
Over the past couple of years we've also steadily invested in what we call our advisory layer.
These are the folks who sit face-to-face with executives or get with them on the phone and help them figure out among these incredibly rich intellectual property assets data best practices tools which ones best map to the problem they have right now.
And that is  -- that will show up in the cost of services lines.
So those are -- those come in more evenly tend to vary as you'd expect with the growth of the revenue line.
And probably less scalable than our classic researchers but the cost of services line item is still far and away the most scalable part of the business that as we add members to an existing product set there's that core research team and that great intellectual property asset at the center that we get leverage out off in lots of different ways.
Moving on to Shlomo Rosenbaum of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I want to get more into the nitty gritty of the bookings.
If I go ahead and take the change in deferred revenue and kind of calculate my own bookings number I get kind of a 1% bookings growth.
And if I want to normalize for Iconoculture which is -- it happened last year it looks like the bookings actually declined year-over-year.
Is that a fair assessment as to what happened? Shlomo it's Rich.
Actually no it's not.
The derived year-over-year growth in bookings number that you can get by performing that calculation in this case is actually wrong and pretty significantly understates our actual bookings growth.
The reason is because there's noise created by the addition of Iconoculture last year which actually led you to derive a higher bookings number last year than we actually experienced.
So we certainly did not have negative growth in bookings and I just want to be very clear and definitive about that.
We did as we talked about in the call we did get off to slower start in the first -- I'm sorry we got off to a strong start in the first quarter and also a bit of a slower start in April although we did pick up the pace in May and June.
And I think if you look at the growth in Contract Value and especially in deferred revenues you can see that that would imply solid bookings growth as we came through the quarter as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Can you just walk me through why Iconoculture skewed that.
I would think that normally when you make an acquisition the deferred revenue gets written off so it would not have been added to in the historical year? Well certainly no.
I mean not the portion that was still to be recognized as revenue did not get written off.
I think essentially you're getting the Contract Value last year it didn't really come through as bookings per se it was just a starting -- an add-in to the base.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> But the deferred revenue where I'm doing that calculation to the extent of my ability wouldn't you have been writing off any deferred revenue that was there already for Iconoculture when you bought it?.
No I mean still to be earned and recognized.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So I'm going to have to take that off-line to get more detail on that but that something that seems -- can you maybe just help us by giving us a figure some kind of bookings growth number year-over-year if I normalize for Iconoculture? In other words was it a range of 5% to 10% growth? Was it 1% to 5% growth? How should we think of the bookings? I would say it was at the higher end of those ranges.
Certainly slower than first quarter but the higher end of those ranges you just laid out.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> The higher end of the 5% to 10% growth? Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Then just picking up on some of the questions that people are asking in terms of how to understand the seasonality of the business and some of the expenses.
Just member relations and marketing is there -- should we expect any kind of leverage off of that line item? I mean normally when I talk to you guys you say "Don't expect anything off of that." And as you grow the revenue should we still expect that that's going to be kind of the part that you grow everything else kind of flat to down? We find over the economic cycle that that tends to vary pretty closely with the revenue.
One of the ways you do see when that -- where you see that number shrink as a percentage of revenue tends to be where the economy is very strong.
What's happening there is basically you have a little more leverage off your selling efforts because things that in a more difficult economy take 3 calls take 2 calls in a good economy.
So you see it vary a little bit over the economy cycle but in general we don't expect a lot of leverage on that line item.
You will find localized examples of getting some leverage.
So when we put a new team into a market that often start out with a smaller book of business than that level of expense would be justified.
And as we come down the scale curve in that market you'll see some amortization of that full cost.
That's at the market level and most of the market level investment shows up in that line item.
So you find some places within there we get a little bit of leverage.
And you'll find that over the economy cycle as a percentage of sales it can vary a little bit.
But in general that's where our sales and servicing expense sits and that tends -- the activity levels tend to vary with revenue and the servicing levels tend to vary with revenue.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's good color.
And then can you comment a little bit of how much of your Contract Value growth is pricing versus volume? Should I think of it is as kind of 3% to 4% pricing and then anything else year-over-year would be volume increases?.
Yes I mean again we're getting pricing increases in the 3% to 5% range.
That's what we've been targeting and we're in that range.
As I said earlier to Dave probably towards the higher end.
That is certainly helping our growth year-over-year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then just a little bit more commentary on Europe.
Would you say that the change in the economic outlook for Europe as resulting in your guidance your expectations for guidance tracking towards the midpoint of the guidance versus the high end of last quarter.
In other words how should we characterize that change in what's going on in Europe? I don't want to be a don't want to pretend that I'm an economics soothsayer who can give you a long term view on the European economies.
I would say on balance there's more noise in those economies right now.
And also we're much still early in our market transition there.
So we're pleased with the pace our teams are setting.
I don't think we changed anything in our outlook of the year based on what we see happening macro-economically.
You'll recall the guidance range is something we stepped up last quarter.
And as we said we are tracking towards the middle of it right now and obviously as always trying to push to the other boundaries of any target we've got.
But right now we're tracking toward the middle of it.
I don't think it's based on macroeconomic factors so much as how bookings growth is trended.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> So there's no real change -- what you're trying to convey at least the way I'm hearing it is that there's no real change in the way you guys are expecting to deliver on your guidance vis-a-vis last quarter in aggregate? No I mean I think we're comfortable saying we're pacing to the midpoint of the range and that's -- and pushing to do better than that if possible.
Moving on to Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Did you talk about the size of potentially the accounting change impact of 3Q revenues? And then how much you would recoup in the fourth quarters? Any way to size that? And whatever you don't recoup in the fourth quarter would we assume you'll recoup it in the first.
And I got a couple of minor follow-ups.
Yes so we -- just to recap we are at -- the net deferral through June 30 is $3.6 million and we expect that the net deferral for the year will be roughly $3.5 million.
So net-net between now and the end of the year it's going to be essentially awash but there will be an additional deferral in the third quarter probably comparable to what we had in the second quarter.
And the rest of it comes in the first quarter next year.
And then the divergence right now between Contract Value growth and deferred revenue growth is that -- is some of that coming from this accounting change where you're putting more revenues into deferred? That's exactly right.
Great.
And then finally can you size your government exposure? I don't think we disclosed that specifically.
It's certainly not a material piece of our business but it's...
It's a lot smaller than a share of the economy.
And put it that way no.
It's a focus area for us because ironically we are very under-penetrated in it and we've seen a lot of evidence that across the longer term the world there is swinging toward our way of looking at things.
Performance-oriented intensive performance management disciplines in Finance HR IT the places that we tend to be very strong.
So we like it as a target market over the longer term.
It's still relatively small compared to our total book of business.
But it is -- and that team is growing but it's hard to --it's hard for them to grow at the rate of the firm given some of the economic noise and some of the budgetary noise they are encountering.
It sounds like it's less than 5%? I think that's fair.
Yes.
A follow-up question will come from Dan Leben with Robert W.
Baird.
On these deferrals there are no costs involved with these.
These are 100% pull-through correct? That's correct.
And we'll now go to Toni Kaplan with Morgan Stanley.
How much did FX impact revenue this quarter?.
FX? Yes.
Well we bill all of our -- substantially all of our revenues are billed in U.S.
dollars.
So there was really no impact on revenues.
Okay great.
And you mentioned that the investment is largely complete.
Is that like 90% complete 75% complete if you could actually...
I'm comfortable saying basically 90%.
As the year unfolds we just add a little color there.
In the fourth quarter if the revenue profile allows we sometimes get out ahead of key sales force investments for the next year.
And that's a great way to get out and make sure there our sales team ready to go next year when the guns sound.
But I think beyond that we are pretty comfortable with the level of investment we've make.
And then one last one.
The wallet share has sort of been pretty strong in the last 3 quarters.
Just wondering do you think these levels are sustainable? We certainly think the pieces are in place to continue to deliver solid numbers on wallet retention and we've got everybody focused on delivering those outcomes.
And we have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Tom Monahan for any additional or closing remarks.
Not much to say other than thank you all for logging in this morning and/or calling in.
Rich and I will be out on the road a bit in Q3 so we look forward to keeping you up to date on the EXBD story.
Thanks very much.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We do thank you all for joining us.
Good morning and welcome to the Corporate Executive Board's Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through November 9 by dialing (719) 457-0820.
The confirmation code for the replay is 2274635.
The replay will also be available beginning later today and through November 9 at the company's website and at www.earnings.com.
To the extent any non-GAAP financial measures discussed in today’s call you will also find a reconciliation of that measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated according to GAAP by going to the company’s website and following the Investors link to yesterday’s news release.
You will also find a PDF of the supporting materials that the company will use in its prepared remarks this morning by going to the Investors page and clicking on the link to the third quarter webcast.
Please review the second page of these materials which includes important information about any forward-looking information included in the presentation.
This conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements among others regarding the Corporate Executive Board’s expected quarterly and annual financial performance for fiscal 2011 or beyond.
For this purpose any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing discussions of forecast estimates targets plans beliefs expectations and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
You are hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by important factors among others set forth in the Corporate Executive Board’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its third quarter news release.
Consequently actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the conference over to the company’s Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Richard Lindahl.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
I'm Rich Lindahl Chief Financial Officer of the Corporate Executive Board.
Thank you for calling or logging in to our Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
Here's a quick overview of our time together this morning: I will begin by giving you a financial perspective on the quarter and we'll also discuss our 2011 outlook.
Next Tom Monahan our Chief Executive Officer will provide an update on our operational progress and the strategic priorities we are following to build long-term shareholder value.
Then we will take your questions.
Please turn to Slide 3 of our presentation.
Overall we continue to making progress in the third quarter  through solid execution that is delivering current results and setting us up for future growth.
To illustrate this point we'll focus our discussion today on the following key themes.
We are sustaining momentum throughout our business.
Our third quarter financial results keep us on course to achieve our annual objectives.
We continue to balance capital allocation according to our stated priorities.
And we currently expect to enter 2012 on strong footing and with a healthy growth profile.
Please turn to Slide 4 for a discussion of our key growth drivers.
During the third quarter we saw a sustained global momentum reflected by double-digit bookings growth.
We were pleased to see strong results from our European operations as the team there gained traction in the new commercial model and delivered growth ahead of the firm average.
In the year-to-date through the third quarter all regions are converging on the firm-wide growth averages with Asia Pacific slightly ahead and North America and Europe right in line with each other.
From an industry perspective our government team gained some ground in the quarter although that area remains challenging due to ongoing uncertainty regarding the federal budget.
As a reminder this segment currently represents less than 5% of our total revenue although we continue to see an attractive opportunity to grow in this space over time.
Our corporate sectors grew at healthy rates including financial services institutions which continue to represent about 20% of our total Contract Value despite increased volatility in the financial sector.
We also continue to improve the key indicators of current and future revenue growth.
As you can see on the left side of the chart we had another solid year-over-year increase in Wallet retention.
This metric is defined as the total current year Contract Value from prior-year members as a percentage of total prior-year Contract Value.
As such it measures our success at expanding institutional relationships through effective retention cross-sell and price improvement efforts.
All 3 of these drivers gained traction over the past year and as you can see Wallet retention grew by 6% rising from 96% in the third quarter of 2010 to 102% in the third quarter of 2011.
In the center of the page we show that we grew our customer base by 7% over the past year as total member institutions increased from 5 131 to 5 504.
This improvement reflects our success at re-engaging former members establishing new relationships with large domestic and international corporate companies and further penetrating the middle market opportunity.
The net result of all these efforts can be seen on the right-hand side of the page which shows that Contract Value per member institution grew by approximately 4% from just over $82 000 in the third quarter of 2010 to nearly $86 000 in the third quarter of 2011.
Please turn to Slide 5 for an overview of our financial results which keep us on track to achieve our annual objectives.
I will also note that with solid sequential improvements in revenue growth adjusted EBITDA margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share the third quarter outcomes are very much in line with the commentary we provided to you on our last earnings call.
At September 30 2011 Contract Value was $472.2 million which is an increase of 12% from September 30 2010.
This increase was driven by solid bookings growth in the quarter as our teams continue to connect our uniquely valuable services to critical member needs even in the face of increased market volatility.
We saw a smoother overall trend in bookings throughout the period and we also finished the quarter very strong as the contribution from new business which tends to be more back-end weighted continued to improve.
Revenues were $122.9 million in the third quarter of 2011 a 9.6% increase compared to $112.1 million in the third quarter of 2010.
As we have previously discussed on January 1 we adopted to FASB's new guidance on revenue recognition.
Under these new accounting rules we deferred recognition of approximately $2.5 million of revenue in the third quarter that would have previously been recognized under the prior rules.
This additional amount brings our total year-to-date deferrals to $6.1 million.
We will recognize a portion of these year-to-date deferrals in Q4 and the remainder of such revenue in early 2012.
As a result we currently estimate that the full year net deferral of revenue from 2011 into 2012 will be approximately $4.2 million.
This figure is a bit more than our previous forecast and influences the tightening you see at the higher end of our revenue and earnings guidance.
Moving on to operating expenses.
Cost of services in the third quarter of 2011 increased by $1.8 million versus the third quarter of 2010.
Personnel and other compensation costs were again the biggest component of this change driven by our investments this year in product development and expansion of our advisory staff.
Member relations and marketing expense increased by $4.4 million in the third quarter versus the prior-year period as a result of higher staffing levels and increased sales commissions due to the cumulative growth in bookings.
As a reminder this line also reflects the bulk of our international staff investment which has increased as we pursue growth opportunities in Asia and Europe.
General and administrative costs increased by $1.4 million in the third quarter of 2011 versus the third quarter of 2010.
This rise was driven by higher headcount as well as transaction costs associated with the acquisition of Baumgartner &amp; Partner.
Other Expense was $2.5 million in the third quarter of 2011 compared to Other Income of $3.1 million in the third quarter of 2010.
The biggest driver of the year-over-year change is a $3 million swing from a gain to a loss in the fair value of deferred compensation plan assets.
As a reminder pursuant to GAAP accounting rules there are offsetting entries to compensation expense so there is always a 0 net impact to earnings resulting from gains or losses on deferred compensation plan assets.
Adjusted EBITDA margin in the third quarter of 2011 was 21.1% versus 25.2% in the third quarter of 2010 reflecting the impact of the new revenue recognition rules the operating investments we have discussed over the past several quarters and the $2.6 million negative year-over-year change in other expense items such as foreign currency translation other income and net interest income.
As a reminder we do not adjust out stock compensation expense which was $2 million in the third quarter of 2011 when calculating adjusted EBITDA margin.
Depreciation and amortization in the third quarter of 2011 was $4 million a decrease of $0.5 million compared to the third quarter of 2010.
This reduction is attributed to lower amortization of intangible assets.
In the third quarter our effective tax rate was 36.7%.
During the quarter we released a tax contingency reserve which reduced our quarterly tax provision.
We estimate that our tax rate will be approximately 40% for the year excluding the effects of unrealized currency translation gains and losses.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share in the third quarter of 2011 was $0.41 or $0.02 lower than the $0.43 we reported in the prior-year period as the year-over-year growth in revenues was offset by the higher operating costs associated with our investment plan for this year.
Turning to the balance sheet membership fees receivable decreased seasonally to $92 million at September 30 2011 compared to $141.3 million at December 31.
Average day sales outstanding were 67 days for the third quarter consistent with historical seasonal averages.
Deferred revenues declined seasonally and the current portion was $235.1 million at September 30 2011 as compared to the prior year deferred revenues increased by 17.9% from the third quarter of 2010 due to improved year-over-year bookings.
The impact of year-to-date deferrals under the new revenue recognition accounting contributed to the growth in deferred revenues as did another strong close to the quarter.
We continue to be encouraged by these trends and the favorable implications they have on our near-term revenue growth.
Year-to-date cash flows from operations were $58.1 million through September 30 2011 an increase of 23.2% versus the same period of 2010 driven primarily by the strength of year-over-year bookings growth.
Through September 30 we have also spent $7.6 million on capital expenditures paid $4.2 million related to the Iconoculture earnout and holdback and spent $5.8 million on acquisitions.
Please turn to Slide 6 for a review of our capital allocation priorities and an update on related activities during the quarter.
As we have previously discussed we constructed an economic model focused on renewable scalable and profitable business opportunities and we typically generate free cash flow in excess of net income.
We have also said that our priorities for allocating capital include maintaining a solid financial position and preserving flexibility for strategic investments.
And we seek to return cash to shareholders through regular dividends which highlight the earnings potential of our business model and by opportunistically repurchasing our shares to offset the historical and future dilution created by our employee equity compensation programs.
In the third quarter we executed against all of these priorities.
We ended the period in a solid liquidity position with $107.6 million of cash cash equivalents and marketable securities.
We used $5 million to fund the acquisition of Baumgartner &amp; Partner which Tom will say more about shortly.
For the year-to-date we have made regular dividend payments totaling $15.4 million.
Finally during the quarter we opportunistically purchased $40.3 million of our stock in open market purchases and as of September 30 we had approximately $28.1 million of stock repurchase authorization remaining.
Next I'll discuss our outlook.
The following comments are intended to fall into the Safe Harbor provisions outlined at the beginning of the call and are based on preliminary assumptions which are subject to change over time.
Please turn to Slide 7.
As we have discussed throughout the year we have constructed our 2011 plan with an eye towards balancing profit and cash flow growth with select investments to create long-term value.
We continue to pursue sustainable top line growth attractive profitability and improving cash flow from our existing subscription business.
And we have made additional investments in new products and market extension to further enhance organic growth.
With one quarter remaining in 2011 we have greater clarity on potential full year outcomes and are tightening our guidance ranges accordingly.
We remain on track to deliver within the outlook range we have indicated throughout the year for revenues and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and we continue to pace to the midpoint of this revised guidance.
Based on our year-to-date outcomes the influence of revenue recognition deferrals and the impact of some temporary items including acquisition costs related to Baumgartner &amp; Partner we now expect slightly lower margins for the year.
Our Contract Value and deferred revenue balances point to continued growth in quarterly revenues.
Where we land the full year will be a function of both fourth quarter bookings performance and the degree to which we recognize revenue in the year that has been deferred under the new accounting guidelines.
In the fourth quarter we also expect a small sequential increase in total quarterly operating expenses on a normalized basis that is after adjusting the third quarter run rate for the compensation expense benefit realized on the change in the fair value of deferred compensation plan assets due to both seasonal selling factors and the addition of some expenses related to Baumgartner.
Accordingly in the fourth quarter we again expect sequential improvements in quarterly revenues adjusted EBITDA margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share.
Our updated 2011 outlook is therefore as follows: Annual revenues ranging from $485 million to $495 million; adjusted EBITDA margin of between 21.5% and 22.5%; non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $1.50 to $1.60; depreciation and amortization of $17 million to $18 million; and capital expenditures of approximately $11 million.
Finally a word about 2012.
As always we'll have much better visibility into next year once we tally our fourth quarter bookings.
However given the positive bookings growth we've generated so far this year and assuming additional progress in Q4 we expect that we'll see continued top line growth consistent with the long-term revenue guidance we shared with you at our Investor Day in March.
We also anticipate that this additional revenue will position us not only to pursue additional growth opportunities but also to seek modest improvements in our margin profile in 2012 and across the coming years.
We look forward to sharing a more detailed perspective with you on our full year earnings call in February.
That's it for the financial summary.
Please turn to Slide 8.
And I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Rich.
Good morning.
As Rich shared we are pleased that our year is shaping up as expected and that we remain on track to deliver our commitments for 2011.
Let me start with a look at what we are seeing and hearing from our members.
As you know we have a pretty unique perch.
We now support more than 5 500 companies headquartered in more than 50 countries.
We work closely with them across a range of their operating priorities and in particular we help them size budgets and prioritize investments as they set themselves up for 2012.
We're not all macroeconomic forecasters but this breadth of outlook does give us unique insight into how corporate leaders are thinking about the economy and their own budgets.
And on balance they still have a very conservative outlook with a little more than 1/3 of executives globally expecting meaningful hiring or CapEx growth across the next 12 months.
While they're cautious they're also purposeful.
The largest companies generally expect to generate low single-digit growth in the developed world and free up capital to invest in faster-growing emerging markets.
It's an environment that rewards clear prioritization sharp execution and consistent productivity gains.
We think that we are well-positioned to support members in this environment.
They face a welter of challenges that create demand for our data insight tools and advice.
Most of their needs for help cluster against 3 major challengers where we bring unique capabilities to bear: driving productivity by attracting developing and managing great talent globally creating growth through innovations and sales marketing and technology; and protecting the company for reputational and financial loss through strong finance and risk processes and ethical cultures.
By using our rich data insights and tools on these topics we continue to push on the 3 levers to grow the business that we captured on Slide 8.
First we grow relationships with existing customers.
With more than 5 500 companies in our global network this represents our largest and most scalable growth opportunity as we work to connect more of our resources to customer decisions and workflows.
Second we add new customers.
More than 15 000 companies across the globe have yet to initiate a relationship with CEB including expansive opportunity with mid-sized companies.
We make targeted investments to bring more of these companies to CEB for the first time.
Third we add new products and services.
We invest and develop products that will become platforms of future growth and that strengthen relationships with customers in our key buying centers.
We move these levers to focus on our 4 core priorities which I've updated you on across 2011.
You can see them captured on Slide 9.
First creating uniquely valuable insights into corporate performance.
Second driving loyalty growth and brand strength through high-value member engagement.
Third investing globally in key markets.
Fourth leveraging technology and service to deliver innovative products.
We made solid progress in each during the first 9 months of this year so let me once again share highlights as we prepare for a strong close to 2011 and a strong start to 2012.
Please turn to Slide 10 where I'll discuss our first priority: creating uniquely valuable insights into corporate performance.
As a reminder our objective is to create must-have research and content that ties to important member decisions engages members and accelerates growth.
We believe that great content built from deep research powerful data and unique analysis powers all of our businesses.
Our teams have produced outstanding work in 2011 across our practice areas and I've been pleased to share highlights on previous calls.
One common theme of these highlights from building talent strategies in China to extracting economic value from management to the integrity and ethics is that our most powerful content also often comes from multiyear efforts to build rich data and unique best practices geared to the most important issues on members' desks.
These assets represent both platforms for member engagement and a strong competitive barrier.
As you know we have outstanding resources to help companies optimize the performance of their sales forces.
Sales force performance blends our historical strengths in understanding the levers of managing human capital and in understanding the needs and interests of changing customer basis.
Attendees at our Investor Day in March will recall that we shared some findings from our work asserting that sales reps who teach customers are far more likely to be successful than traditional relationship builders.
This insight and all the implications underneath it were built from a rich set of data on the drivers of customer loyalty drivers of sales rep productivity and drivers of sales rep effectiveness.
Great content assets like the Challenger Rep profile provide multiyear benefit for our business.
In addition to strong member engagement in our core programs we can build platforms for new products.
For example we've used this data to create an offering in beta that helps member companies identify create and evaluate what we call Challenger talent.
Of course great content also helps us build our brand with executives around the world.
This happens both through the impact we make with members and with targeted marketing and PR strategies.
This month we are publishing a new book through Penguin's portfolio imprint entitled The Challenger Sale featuring insights from the Challenger Work.
Reaction from the executive committee has already been strong.
As a blog series on HBR's website it was the most read and discussed story this month.
Please turn to Slide 11 where I'll talk about our second priority: driving member loyalty growth and brand strength through high-value engagement.
Our objective is to leverage effective support of our customers to grow our business through renewals pricing power and the sale of additional products and services.
In the customer -- sorry in the quarter we continue to achieve success in translating that support into expanding relationships with our customers.
Wallet retention was once again at the high end of our historical range at 102% compared to 96% in Q3 of 2010 Contract Value per institution also rose over last year even as we added nearly 400 new customers across the past 12 months.
We're certainly pleased with this solid outcome.
That strong new member institution growth is also a signal of our progress in selectively adding new sales capacity in both the large corporate and middle markets.
We successfully hired and on-boarded high-caliber talent in the first half of the year and I'm pleased that we're seeing returns on that investment as the teams are now up to speed in the market.
We also remain focused on leveraging member impact to grow awareness of the CEB brand.
Beyond the thousands of pure networking events that we host for small groups of members we also stage a few large-scale events that allow us to engage hundreds of members and potential customers at one time.
This quarter for example we hosted our 2011 Finance and Strategy Summits with sessions in Washington D.C.
and London.
Titled The Agile Enterprise the event combined CEB insight with leading external perspectives and focused on helping executives increase the agility of their enterprise to take advantage of economic uncertainty.
More than 500 senior finance and strategy executives gathered for this very timely discussion providing an excellent platform to showcase our work on a variety of critical topics.
Sessions explored issues such as how to build a customer-centric corporate center managing risk by evaluating corporate culture and establishing long-term market relevance in emerging markets.
Please turn to Slide 12 where I'll discuss our third priority: investing globally in key markets.
Our objective is to accelerate new customer acquisition and growth of existing customers through select market-level investment.
We have a rich opportunity here to drive growth and strengthen our competitive barriers by achieving higher levels of penetration in our key markets.
This does require investment to lay an in-market foundation and we've been successful across the last 9 months in putting resources to work in London Frankfurt Singapore and Sydney to drive growth.
As Rich mentioned we're obviously pleased to see such strong growth in the EMEA region and continued success in Asia Pacific.
As you'll recall our EMEA region was the last to go through our channel overhaul finishing up in Q2 2010.
As we discussed on prior calls we were carefully monitoring our European team's productivity ramp to make sure it matched our experience in North America and we saw their gains continue in this quarter.
One accelerant to these efforts is our acquisition of Baumgartner &amp; Partner a leading German provider of HR and finance data and benchmarking services as well as HR advisory services which I'll discuss in more detail later in my remarks.
Beyond the great asset and people it strengthens our presence in a key market.
Germany remains one of Europe's largest and healthiest economies is a strong consumer professional advice and a historically underpenetrated market for CEB.
We have invested in 2011 to tap the opportunity of the market as we open an office in Frankfurt built a German commercial and support team and began cultivating local data and insight.
With the addition of Baumgartner we further accelerated these targeted efforts and grew our foothold with Germany's largest companies.
It's now comparable with our foothold with other large markets globally.
Please turn to Slide 13 where I'll discuss our fourth priority: leveraging technology and service to deliver innovative products.
As a reminder our objective is to create and grow revenue streams by linking research and content and new customer decisions and workflows.
Last quarter I highlighted several examples of how we innovate in some of our most established products to drive customer engagement and ultimately pricing power.
At the same time we continue to invest in the creation of new-to-world products and services.
Earlier this year I announced the launch of the Finance Leadership Academy.
As a reminder leadership academies offer a standardized set of modules which companies use to develop the leadership business analytic and managerial skills of high-potential employees.
The Leadership Academy's platform has shown particular strength across the past year and we have been working to extend and deepen the platform into our key functional areas.
The Leadership Academy's platform is a great example of 2 priorities we have for new product development.
First it's a wonderful example of how we co-create new product with our existing member network.
The curricula for these sessions are developed by working with members CXOs to identify skill gaps in their emerging leaders.
They then designate high-potential future executives to participate.
Second leadership academies not only target a real member paying point but ensure that we develop relationships with the emerging generations of talent in our core functions and that this talent uses CEB data tools and best practices to do their jobs.
Today more than 7 000 rising executives in our target HR finance legal and now IT functions across more than 1 000 companies have participated in our programs creating a deep and growing base of users and future customers.
This quarter I'm pleased to announce the launch of the IT Business Leadership Academy.
Similar to our other offerings the IT Business Leadership Academy gives the next generation of IT leadership the skills and tools they need to engage business lines as a more strategic partner.
Focused on developing skills identified as most important to line leaders and CIOs the program has driven ROI for companies as diverse as Target Coca-Cola Juniper Novartis and Bristol-Myers Squibb to improve project selection and cross-functional project delivery.
The offering draws out our depth in the IT space but it also leverages our unique cross-functional perspective giving rising IT leaders insight into what finance or procurement or sales executives care most about.
And it also leverages our historical strength and data on leadership development strategies.
A recent IT business partner credits the presentation communication and stakeholder skills she learned in the academy with accelerating and mission-critical initiative.
Another said "I highly recommend this course for aspiring senior IT leaders in the business-facing world." We're thrilled to hear great feedback.
And as I mentioned before we were delighted to announce the acquisition of Baumgartner &amp; Partner at the very end of the quarter.
While we expect the bulk of our growth to come from organic efforts we do keep our eyes open for assets to bring unique capabilities to our firm which we in turn can bring to our broader member base.
Baumgartner is a great example of how we think about what assets we choose to acquire.
First the team has developed uniquely valuable data in IP that is highly relevant to our core customers.
They have a series of proprietary benchmarking methods and rich data sets that analyze and support HR performance along with key finance benchmarks.
This deepens our view of these processes and in turn globalizes our data assets.
Second they have recurring relationships with top companies.
Their proprietary benchmarking methodologies have attracted many members of the DAX 30 including Bayer AG Daimler AG and ThyssenKurp.
Third the talented Baumgartner team shares our passion for working collaboratively to create member impact through uniquely valuable data and insight.
We're delighted to welcome them to the firm.
In the near term the financial impact will be modest.
The business currently generates about $5 million in revenue at historical margins in the high teens just beneath CEB's historical standards.
Given the historical relationships and contracts the business will not immediately appear in Contract Value but will flow in as these relationships are renewed and expanded.
And unlike much of our business Q4 is a historically light quarter for them so the immediate impact will be modest.
Let me close with a note about our people.
I'm very pleased with our efforts to attract retain and develop great talent in all parts of our business.
We've added great new talents in the first half of the year and they joined an engaged seasoned team in bringing energy to executing our strategy and hitting our goals for this year and beyond.
I look forward to moving our business forward together.
To summarize our outlook as we enter the final weeks of the year we are pleased that our year is shaping up as expected and that we remain on track to deliver our commitments for 2011.
And of course we are looking forward to making a solid start to 2012.
We'll now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Gary Bisbee with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question on the Wallet retention metric and I'll explain to you how I'm thinking about this and tell me if this is right or if this is wrong but the 102% does this -- if you're getting 3% to 5% pricing on renewal business does 102% mean that volumes in the existing customers is actually down 1% to 2% year-over-year? Or what's wrong with thinking about it that way? Gary it's Rich.
I think the -- as we've talked about before how the 3% to 5% pricing increase when you match that up against program renewal rate it actually gets diluted to a number that's below that.
So that's certainly -- price increase is certainly helping us.
We're also getting contribution from sustained program renewal rates and also cross-sell activity.
But net-net overall we're growing the amount of business we're doing with customers on a -- at that 102% rate.
Gary for your math to be true every customer would have to renew every product and then layering price increase on top of that.
And even in our very best moments every customer doesn't renew every single product.
There are certain customers who don't renew and there are customers who renew a healthy bunch of products and pick and choose and take some new ones and may let an old one slide off.
So the price increase gets netted out in all of that.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
That makes sense.
And should we be concerned that its been sliding modestly the last couple of quarters? Or is this within the sort of normal range of expectations that hit the revenue growth targets over the long term you've laid out? Yes no I mean we're certainly not concerned.
I think as you know this is a relatively new metric for us and I think there's an element of seasoning going on in terms of our understanding how it's going to trend over time in the new commercial model.
I would say we're very pleased with 102%.
It certainly is at the higher end of historical experience.
And as we said it reflects well on our ability to expand institutional relationships.
I wouldn't read too much into the sequential trends right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then I guess the last question on the commentary around 2012 and I realize it's early there but the -- how should we think about the places that you're likely to invest and the level of investment or growth in costs over the next few years? Is it -- are there any major new areas you're thinking of investing? Any sense of what we should expect? I guess what I'm getting at is it sounded like the comment that there would be more -- modest margin gains might be sort of a leading comment to get all of us to take a look at our numbers and see if maybe we're being a little aggressive there.
But just any comment on how we should think about cost trends over the medium term.
Sure.
I mean I think first of all I'd say we certainly feel like we've gotten positive reinforcement in terms of the returns that we're getting on the investments that we've made this year.
And we still see opportunities to drive additional growth both by improving the customer experience and getting additional business out of existing customers as well as further penetrating the very attractive opportunity of the universe of customers who haven't bought from us yet and also developing new products and services.
So I would expect that we'll identify and pursue investments similar to what we've done this year.
I would say we do see at the same time given the increased scale an opportunity to balance some of that reinvestment with some modest margin improvement.
But I think we still are committed to driving revenue growth as the primary goal of improving shareholder value over time.
And from Stifel Nicolaus we'll go next to Shlomo Rosenbaum.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Rich you talked about ending the fourth quarter with a lot of strength in your bookings.
I was just wondering -- you don't usually talk about inter-quarter trends.
I was wondering just given a lot of the market volatility whether you could comment at all on whether you saw that continue into the fourth quarter.
Yes.
I think what I -- what we're saying there is we certainly feel good about how we left the third quarter.
It's kept us on pace and on trajectory to execute against our plan for the year.
And as a result that sets us up well assuming we follow through it on that for 2012.
Obviously Q4 is still very much in front of us but we feel like we're heading in the right direction there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the increase -- the sequential increase in Contract Value per member it's just interesting because of -- I would expect the middle market sales would drive this metric down.
And can you kind of drill down a little bit to us and explain how if you're getting faster growth theoretically in middle market which are lower price points with newer clients how is this number going up? Yes.
It's -- I think what you're seeing is that we're seeing certainly still good growth in middle market.
We are also seeing higher Contract Value per institution in both the large corporate space as well as in middle market space as we're executing against not only price increase opportunities but also selling more of what we offer to existing customers.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So are you basically just increasing the cross-sell effectiveness on the lower -- large corporate and that's just overshadowing what's going on in the middle market? I wouldn't say.
[Audio Gap] Let's they're both improving so that's helping.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the bookings growth it looked like it was particularly strong.
Can you talk about how much of the bookings came from existing clients versus new clients? I know you're using like a Wallet retention metric but is it kind of 60-40 from existing versus new? Is there some kind of thoughts you can share with us on that? I think the Wallet retention is the best way to look at kind of year-over-year growth in business from existing customers and obviously the differential would be the contribution from new customers.
I think what you're seeing is we have seen at this point in the cycle continuing improvement in our ability to attract new customers.
And you're seeing some of that come through the bookings as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the revenue recognition policies how much of the change in the accounting policies how much did that impact the deferred revenue in the quarter I guess on a year-over-year basis? I usually calculate my bookings based on that.
I want to know how much the accounting rule change impacts that.
Sure.
We said earlier in the call on a year-to-date basis we've delayed recognition of about $6.1 million of revenue and so that certainly has contributed to the growth in deferred revenues.
If you want to kind of compare Contract Value growth to deferred revenue growth you've got the difference there about 1/2 of it would be explained -- roughly 1/2 by this revenue recognition impact and the other 1/2 is relative to the strong close we had in bookings on the quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then in terms of the guidance getting lowered between EBITDA and EPS can you comment to how much of that was from some of the non-operational items versus lowered expectations? Yes.
I wouldn't say we have lowered expectations.
I mean I think we still are very much tracking along the path that we were tracking to when we left the -- when we talked about the third quarter and fourth quarter on the last call.
We've got -- certainly with one -- with only one quarter to go we've got better visibility on the range of possible outcomes which certainly influences our view.
The main factors that are changing the revenue margin guidance are updated expectations about the impact of deferred revenue the timing there which I'll remind you we will recapture all of those deferrals next year so it's really a timing issue; there is an impact from the Baumgartner acquisition in terms of the transaction costs; and there's an impact on where we are year-to-date on the foreign currency translation costs as well as well as just kind of updating our view for the rest of the year based on year-to-date progress.
So on balance we're very much on track on the same trajectory but we're just refining our guidance to reflect what we know at this stage to expect through the rest of the year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So just to ask the question in a different way: The midpoint of the guidance is down a bit on EPS right by like $0.02 to $0.025.
Is the bulk of that due to the items that you specified? Yes.
And we'll go next to Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just on Contract Value and bookings.
Is there anyway that -- could you say there's nothing in from Baumgartner in this quarter so it's a clean number organic? Yes it is an organic number.
We closed the Baumgartner transaction on September 30 so we have not incorporated any financial results in the quarter from Baumgartner.
Oh let me just clarify: We -- the purchase accounting is on the balance sheet so you see the asset on the balance sheet but there's no income statement impact or in Contract Value.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on just -- could you give us where you ended the quarter on basic shares outstanding? Well our weighted average shares were 34 381 on a diluted basis.
Research Division</strong> I was just thank trying to -- when you -- did you purchase quarters early in the quarter or late in the quarter? When you see the -- when the Q comes out when we file it you'll see that our purchase activity was pretty evenly split between August and September.
And next we'll go to Tim McHugh with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Yes just I wanted to follow up on some of these questions about margins and your comments for 2012.
I guess if you can just help me kind of think about as I think to 2012 you'll get the reversal of some of these accounting issues that have depressed margins a little this year.
You'll get hopefully some leverage on the investments and you won't have these acquisition costs so to have only I guess -- I know we can cut hairs on what you mean by modest margin expansion but it sounds like you expect to be pretty aggressive again next year with investing.
Is that just giving yourselves room for that? Or are there specific things you've already identified for next year I guess? If you can just kind of respond to that.
Tim I think -- as you know our margin overall margin is actually a mix of 2 things.
As we grow the subscription businesses we see healthy margin growth because we get leverage from this fixed cost we have at the center of a lot of our -- all of our businesses.
It isn't infinite of course because we had variable servicing and advisory expenses those memberships grow but it's above the firm average.
That's offset by selective investments which we choose to make to accelerate both short- and long-term growth.
Those tend to come in 2 basic flavors.
One is opening up new markets.
We're getting deeper into important markets for us like middle market or country-level markets or putting new products and services into the market as those take a couple of years to reach CEB margins.
It's worth remembering we do see -- there's nothing that's changed about the first dynamic.
So the first dynamic creates a pool of operating expense that we can then balance 2 objectives with: One is to keep putting investments to work; and secondly is to make sure we're delivering returns back to shareholders.
I don't think there's anything different we've got planned for next year.
It is worth remembering that some of the investments we have in place this year let's say some of our regional level investments are still ramping to full productivity.
They're certainly more economic than they were last quarter and they'll -- we'll keep ramping them to full productivity.
But there's a scale curve that doesn't immediately reverse itself on Jan 1.
And I think that's the reason we are using the term modest in that we're seeing good returns from those investments we don't want to shut them off.
And there may be selective small ones we want to place in addition to them.
But that's just normal ramping of costs that over time will look fixed but right now are probably a little subscale in a couple of markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you talked about Europe performing better partly because of the sales model and partly because some of the investments.
Can you talk to maybe across Europe are there any particular countries or investments in areas that are performing better than others right now? Or is it fairly evenly? Yes.
Less news than you'd expect.
As you know we're a bunch of washed-out ex-management consultants so we analyze every number a hundred ways to Sunday.
But the performance was -- even across regions even across industry sectors et cetera you'd expect some of the places we've put resources to work are showing good growth which is nice.
But overall it was a very solid consistent performance by the team on the ground there.
And as I said we've been watching them ramp their productivity across the past year.
We've kept you all up to date as to whether they were tracking with the North American experience not -- they've stayed right in line.
And they delivered a great quarter along the lines of what we thought that they could do when we went through the transition.
Research Division</strong> Were there any areas in bookings that were underperforming relative to what you had hoped for? We've talked about the government sector being more challenged than other sectors.
So that was -- that's been the one consistent across this year.
It's -- given the external environment it's performing pretty well but it's certainly not at the firm level growth rate.
The good news is it's small for us.
Over the long term we do see the potential to grow there.
And we do think the shifts in public dialogue toward productivity and accountability are ones that blow in our favor.
So long term we think this will become a better rather than worse CEB market.
But in the near term the team there is fighting some uphill battles budget-wise.
And we'll go next to David Ridley-Lane with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
I know you've moved away from the sales team metrics but just roughly do you have any indication you could give us on what sales headcount was up for the -- from the prior year? I think the -- if you look at our member relations and marketing as a percentage of revenue that gives you -- that change will give you a good proxy for how the sales organization has grown over the course of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then you've been in a period of over-investing in sales and marketing: Is 2012 a year of leverage? Or does is kind of continue on in '12? Again we'll lay out more specifically our investment plans for 2012 once we get to February.
But certainly we hope to see continued product -- progress and productivity improvement on the investments we have made.
I think that we also are likely to see opportunities to extend further to take advantage of other untapped opportunities and potential out there.
But beyond that we don't have any more specific details to share at this stage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just ballpark what was the onetime transaction cost from M&amp;A in the quarter? It was about $800 000 so it was a little more than $0.01 maybe almost $0.015.
And with Morgan Stanley our next question comes from Suzi Stein.
Research Division</strong> I'm just curious is the acquisition of Baumgartner something you can leverage into other European countries? Or is this Germany-specific? Suzy as we look at this I laid out the 3 things we think we'd get and I would put uniquely valuable data and IP at the top of that list.
So yes we do think there's an opportunity to leverage this more broadly.
They've got great assets and a great team.
Those are the great customers which happens to be German-centric which isn't a bad thing either.
But as you know we've put a huge premium on the quality of the team and the quality of the intellectual property and we think we've got both here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just related to this where are you focusing your M&amp;A strategy? Should be expect it to be more international going forward? No I would not say that.
Our M&amp;A strategy hasn't changed at all.
We see it as a subset as a -- of our core growth strategy.
Our job is to first and foremost grow the core organically and make sure that we're doing a great job on cross-sells new sales and really penetrating our existing product set into our core domains.
Beyond that as we think about new products we do look within those 5 domains looking for uncovered needs or places we can support a recurring member decision.
And as we go down the process of meeting that member need we do take a look outside to say "Hey is there an asset that's already been developed or a team that's been working on this for a while and built a marquee customer group?" More often than not the answer is no and we have to go build it ourselves.
But we see it very much as a subset of our new product development effort and I think Baumgartner illustrates how we think about M&amp;A within the context of our business strategy.
So no it's not necessarily an international focus.
It's very much a decisions within our core domain product development strategy.
Research Division</strong> And then just one more.
You addressed your capital deployment strategy but I guess it wasn't totally clear on how you're thinking about stock repurchases going forward.
Yes well I mean I think the way we're thinking about it is as we've articulated we view it primarily as a tool for offsetting dilution from employee stock compensation programs both historical and prospectively.
And we feel good about the purchases that we've made opportunistically in the third quarter.
And we'll continue to keep the doors open for more opportunistic purchases up to the $28 million that we have available right now.
And with Robert W.
Baird our next question comes from Dan Leben.
Research Division</strong> First can you talk a little bit more about Baumgartner's both the scale of the business as well as the margin profile before the acquisition? Sure.
At the top line I think as I said what we're excited about here is the great intellectual property the strong recurring customer list in a key market and a great team.
In the near term the financial impact will be modest.
I think the revenue number is going to be about $5 million.
Their margins -- they have a little bit more variable delivery costs so their margins are going to be lower than our historical average think high teens.
And they won't show up in Contract Value because of the historical structure of the contracts.
As we renew and expand those contracts you'll see it start to flow into Contract Value.
So it will be a relatively small impact for us in the near term but over the long term we see huge potential to grow with this team and this asset.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then with the Wallet retention at 102% 12% growth in Contract Value that other 10% of growth presumably from new customers but only a 7% growth of the number.
Is that indicative of your ability to sign kind of more -- both larger customers as well was getting initial commitments that are much larger than you've seen in the past? We're certainly pleased with the progress we're making there.
We are seeing aggregate sign-up slightly ahead of historical averages.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one can you talk a little bit about program-level renewal rate? You talked about how that impacted Wallet retention.
Just want to get a better sense of the magnitude of where that number is.
Is it in the low- to mid-90s? Is that the right way to think about it? No.
Dan as you know we don't disclose program-level renewal rates.
But even if you go way back when we did it was always beneath institutional-level renewal rate which was high 80s low 90s so assume the program number is lower than that but not tremendously lower.
It's in a good zone historically.
And with the strength our teams are showing at gathering price increases and executing out the cross-sell plan all of that combines to bring some nice Wallet retention number.
And for our final question we'll take a follow-up from Shlomo Rosenbaum.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the sequential decline in cost to goods sold? I mean the sublease of real estate doesn't explain that much of it.
And if you can just talk about what else would be in there.
Yes.
Shlomo the -- as I kind of referenced in my script the accounting on -- when you have the -- a fair value change in the deferred compensation plan assets it impacts the operating expense lines and then there's an offsetting entry in the other income or expense line.
So the magnitude was about $1.9 million total across all 3 and that actually benefited those operating expenses in the quarter.
So some of that reduction you're seeing is due to that as well as there's some impact from the delayed sublease as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
How much of your international revenue is denominated in local currencies versus dollars? I was under the impression that most of the revenue is in dollars.
Yes I mean substantially all of it is in U.S.
dollars.
That really is a gain-loss translation on the monetary -- net monetary assets from our foreign subsidiaries.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it's the change in value of the cash balances? Yes predominantly.
And most of it is related to the exchange rate of the pound to the U.S.
dollar.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what tax rate should we assume for the fourth quarter? I think you'll see our year-to-date we're at about 40% and that's our best estimate right now as to where we'll end the year.
That number will fluctuate based on various things including where we end up on unrealized foreign currency gains and losses.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question I've got is in terms of the growth in bookings in the quarter.
Were there any particular programs that kind of stood out in the quarter? Or is it any -- were there any newer programs that seem to gain more traction that drove it? Or is it just kind of execution in the basket of programs that you guys have been working with for a while? Yes.
Overwhelmingly it was just solid execution across the products.
There didn't seem to be much of a -- this program was hot this program was cold store I think across the board.
Teams are getting out and doing a great job of bringing our assets to bear on member problems and lord knows our members have problems right now.
So in this environment we're finding we can find immediate needs to connect to.
I did say we that launched 2 leadership academies this year.
That feels like we're having a good solid performance there but the bulk really came from the continued solid execution against the core resource portfolio.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Monahan I'll turn the call back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Rich and I would like to thank everyone for calling and/or logging in this morning to allow us to continue to brief you on our progress on our core priorities.
We'll be out on the road a bit across the remainder of the quarter.
We're at the SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Unconference in New York.
And in December we're at the William Blair Global Services Growth Stock Conference in Scottsdale and the UBS Global Media and Communications Conference in New York.
And I know we also have some folks coming to visit in some days out in the road.
So we look forward to keeping everyone up-to-date on the EXPD story across the Q4 period and beyond.
Thanks very much.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your presentation.
Good morning and welcome to the Corporate Executive Board's Fourth Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through February 16 by dialing (719) 457-0820.
The confirmation code for the replay is 7053334.
The replay will also be available beginning later today and through February 16 at the company's website and at www.earnings.com.
To the extent any non-GAAP financial measure is discussed in today's call you will also find a reconciliation of that measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated according to GAAP by going to the company's website and following the Investors link to yesterday's news release.
You will also find a PDF of the supporting materials that the company will use in its prepared remarks this morning by going to the Investors page and following the link on the fourth quarter earnings conference call.
Please review the second page of these materials which includes important information about any forward-looking information included in the presentation.
This conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements among others regarding the Corporate Executive Board's expected quarterly and annual financial performance for fiscal 2012 or beyond.
For this purpose any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing the discussions of forecasts estimates targets plans beliefs expectations and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
You are hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by important factors among others set forth in the Corporate Executive Board's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its fourth quarter news release.
Consequently actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the conference over to the company's Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Richard Lindahl.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
I'm Rich Lindahl Chief Financial Officer of the Corporate Executive Board.
Thank you for calling or logging into our fourth quarter 2011 earnings call.
Here's a quick overview of our time together this morning.
I'll start with a summary of highlights from the quarter and discuss our financial outlook for 2012.
Then Tom Monahan our Chief Executive Officer will provide an update on our key strategic priorities and give some insight on our just completed acquisition of Valtera Corporation.
Then we will take your questions.
Please turn to Slide 3 of our presentation which serves as a roadmap for our conversation this morning.
Overall we were pleased with our results and the solid performance by the team against a backdrop of mixed market conditions.
As expected we saw healthy top line growth drive improved operating leverage off of a stable cost base.
We delivered on our guidance and exited the year with an improved platform of continuing operations.
We maintained our strong financial profile and are well set-up to sustain our growth and progress in the year ahead.
Our efforts remain guided by a focus on our 4 key priorities.
And finally we are excited by the opportunity presented by combining forces with the outstanding people data and technology of Valtera.
Please turn to Slide 4 for a discussion of our key growth drivers.
We continued to improve the top line and experienced double-digit organic gains for the year in total bookings Contract Value and revenues.
On a regional basis we saw our 3 main geographies all converge toward similar annual growth rates.
North America finished the year strong while EMEA was not immune to the macro background noise and achieved a growth rate a bit lower than the overall corporate average.
Asia Pacific put up solid numbers on the year with annual growth slightly ahead of firm average.
On an industry basis the business largely extended the trend lines discussed on our last earnings call with no real outliers.
Our financial services customers continue to grow overall spend in line with other sectors and they still represent about 20% of our business.
The only sector with a different growth trajectory remains our government business which continues to face the challenge of constrained federal budgets.
As a reminder while we still see a large unpenetrated opportunity in government that part of our business represents less than 5% of our revenues.
The year-over-year trends and other growth indicators reflect our seasonal emphasis on new business.
On the left side of the page you can see we held Wallet retention essentially flat at 100% versus the prior year.
This metric is defined as the total current year Contract Value from prior year members as a percentage of total prior year Contract Value.
As such it measures our success at driving institutional relationships through effective retention cross-sell and price improvement efforts.
Keeping this metric in the high 90s to low 100s provides a stable platform upon which to drive growth with new business.
In the center of the page we show that we expanded our customer base by 9% over the prior year as total member institutions increased from 5 271 to 5 738.
This improvement reflects our success at reengaging former members establishing new relationships with large domestic and international companies and further penetrating the middle market opportunity.
The net result of all these efforts can be seen in the right-hand side of the page which shows that Contract Value per member institution grew by approximately 3% from $84 800 in the fourth quarter 2010 to $87 000 in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Please turn to Slide 5 and I'll take a brief detour to ensure there's no confusion on how to compare our 2011 results to our most recent 2011 outlook.
As previously announced we sold our Toolbox.com subsidiary at the end of 2011 and accordingly now show its results as discontinued operations.
While this change in presentation reduces our revenues it also highlights the more favorable profitability of our continuing operations.
On Pages 9 and 10 of our earnings press release we provided schedules that outline these impacts.
And on this Slide 5 of our presentation we show how the key elements of our 2011 guidance compare to our results on a pro forma basis including Toolbox.
As you can see from the slide for the full year our pro forma revenues finished right at the midpoint of our guidance while pro forma adjusted EBITDA margin and pro forma non-GAAP diluted earnings per share both landed at the high end of our ranges.
Please turn to Slide 6 for an overview of our financial results.
As just discussed these outcomes were consistent with our expectations and reflect both our improved continuing operations portfolio and the seasonal impacts on bookings and cash flows that we typically see in the fourth quarter.
At December 31 2011 Contract Value was $499.4 million which is an increase of 11.7% from December 31 2010.
As we have previously discussed the fourth quarter typically represents over 30% of our annual bookings and is also the largest quarter for new business.
With the healthy new institution growth I discussed a few minutes ago you can see that seasonality again this year.
Revenues were $132 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 a 14.3% increase compared to $115.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Revenues were $484.7 million for the full year of 2011 which was a 12.1% increase over 2010.
Revenue growth was primarily driven by the healthy bookings trends we have just discussed.
In addition as you know we adopted the FASB's new revenue recognition guidance on January 1 2011.
Through the first 3 quarters of the year this change resulted in net revenue deferrals of approximately $6.1 million.
As expected in the fourth quarter that trend began reversing and we recognized approximately $2.5 million of previously deferred revenue.
As a result we ended the year with about $3.6 million of revenue deferrals under the new guidance.
Approximately half of that amount will be recognized in the first quarter.
The remaining amount will be recognized throughout 2012 but maybe offset by additional deferrals as the year progresses.
Accordingly the impact on 2012 is not expected to be significant.
And so going forward we do not intend to regularly highlight revenue recognition details.
Moving on to operating expenses.
Cost of services in the fourth quarter of 2011 increased by $1.2 million versus the fourth quarter 2010 driven by higher personnel costs and increased meeting expense to support a larger member base.
Member relations and marketing expense increased by $0.9 million in the fourth quarter versus the prior year period as a result of increased sales capacity and travel costs partially offset by reduced advertising and relatively lower commission costs.
General and administrative costs decreased by $0.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus the fourth quarter of 2010.
This decline was driven by reductions in project-related and other professional services costs as well as smaller incentive accruals.
Other expense was $0.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $1.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The biggest driver of the year-over-year change is a $0.5 million swing from a gain to a loss in the fair value of deferred compensation plan assets.
As a reminder pursuant to GAAP accounting rules there are offsetting entries to compensation expense so there is always a 0 net impact to earnings resulting from gains or losses on deferred compensation plan assets.
Adjusted EBITDA margin in the fourth quarter of 2011 was 29.3% versus 20.7% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
As we have previously discussed we deployed operating investments earlier in the year to drive revenue growth and thus anticipated stronger operating leverage in the fourth quarter.
Margins in the fourth quarter were also helped by the $2.5 million of previously deferred revenue recognized in the quarter that I mentioned a few minutes ago.
For the full year adjusted EBITDA margin was 23.2% or about 50 basis points lower than the 23.7% seen in 2010.
This decline resulted from our strategy to pursue growth opportunities in 2011 by increasing sales capacity enhancing our international platform and investing in product development.
As a reminder we do not adjust out stock compensation expense which was $2 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 when calculating adjusted EBITDA margin.
Depreciation and amortization in the fourth quarter of 2011 was $4.7 million a decrease of $0.3 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 and this reduction is attributed to the completion of depreciation cycles.
In the fourth quarter our effective tax rate was 41.4%.
Our effective tax rate for the full year of 2011 for continuing operations came in at 40.4%.
Diluted earnings per share for continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2011 was $0.59 compared to $0.33 in the prior year period.
For the full year of 2011 diluted earnings per share for continuing operations was $1.67 as compared to $1.51 in 2010.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Membership fees receivable were $154.3 million at December 31 2011 as compared to $141.3 million at December 31 2010.
Average day sales outstanding were 84 days for the quarter consistent with historical seasonal ranges and 4 days lower than in the same period last year.
Deferred revenues increased seasonally and the current portion was $284.9 million at December 31 2011.
As compared to the prior year deferred revenues increased by 13.4% due to improved year-over-year bookings.
We continue to be encouraged by these trends and the favorable implications they have as a leading indicator of near-term growth.
Cash flows from operations were $100.3 million for the full year of 2011 an increase of 17.9% over 2010 driven primarily by year-over-year bookings growth and lower cash taxes.
Please turn to Slide 7 and we'll discuss how we use the favorable cash flow characteristics of our business to support our strategic objectives and maintain a strong financial profile.
On the left side of the page you can see the 18% growth in operating cash flow we just discussed.
In the middle we show how we deployed that cash throughout the year.
We started by spending $10 million on capital expenditures and used approximately $10 million to buy Baumgartner and fund the final costs related to the 2010 Iconoculture acquisition.
As you can see we used the majority of cash generated last year on shareholder distributions paying out $20 million in regular dividends and allocating $40 million to open market share repurchases.
After these uses we had approximately $20 million left which raised our balance of cash cash equivalents and marketable securities to $143.9 million at December 31 2011.
This strong liquidity position sets us up well as we look ahead to 2012.
We anticipate payments for Valtera to be $23.5 million before cash balances acquired and subject to other customary working capital adjustments.
We also announced today that our board has approved a 17% increase to our quarterly dividend rate which takes it to $0.175 per share.
And we still have $28.1 million remaining under the stock buyback authorization announced in August 2011.
Let me just say a quick word about the buyback.
We have stated that our objective here is to opportunistically repurchase shares to offset the historical and future dilution created by our share-based compensation programs.
We were able to make great progress against that objective by purchasing shares during the volatile August-September timeframe and feel good about where we stand for now.
We will continue to monitor market conditions and act opportunistically as appropriate with our remaining authorization.
Next I'll discuss our outlook.
The following comments are intended to fall under the Safe Harbor provisions outlined at the beginning of the call and are based on preliminary assumptions which are subject to change over time.
Please turn to Slide 8.
Before I go through the details of our 2012 outlook I'll just say a bit about Valtera's likely influence.
Tom will provide more color on how the acquisition enhances our strategic positioning and asset value and we are excited about the opportunity Valtera brings to the CEB portfolio.
In terms of economics the business currently generates annual bookings at a run rate in the area of $15 million.
Given the complexity of the data and tools they offer great client impact often requires more intensive personal service than some our subscription products.
And as a result they have a margin structure that is in the mid- to high single-digit range which as you know is below CEB average.
We have just closed the transaction and still have work to do to finalize our purchase accounting and typical deferred revenue adjustments.
So we're incorporating a fairly wide range of Valtera outcomes into our guidance including revenues in the area of $10 million to $12 million this year and intangible amortization in the range of $1.5 million to $2 million.
Moving onto the full 2012 outlook all of which reflects the impact of Valtera.
We are anticipating full year revenues of $535 million to $555 million.
This range assumes a reasonably stable macroeconomic backdrop and the expectation that we will drive organic revenue growth in the high single- to low double-digit range as we indicated on our last call.
We anticipate adjusted EBITDA margin to fall in the range of 23% to 24%.
As discussed in the beginning of the call our margin structure now benefits from the removal of Toolbox and we expect additional modest scaling as we continue to grow revenues on the existing platform.
These benefits will be offset to some degree by the impact of Valtera and continued investments in the sales capacity and product development needed to sustain the multiyear revenue growth profile we are seeking.
In 2012 we also anticipate depreciation and amortization to range from $20 million to $22 million; an effective tax rate of 41.5% not including the effect of foreign currency translation; and capital expenditures of $12 million to $15 million.
In accordance with these revenue and margin ranges we anticipate 2012 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $1.75 to $2.
A quick note on adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share.
Beginning in 2012 we will be adjusting the definitions of both measures to exclude the impact of acquisition-related charges.
In order to provide a cleaner view of ongoing operations we will remove one-time items that are directly related to acquisitions such as severance contract termination and transaction costs.
Finally I'll share a few comments on how to think about quarterly trends this year.
The dominant influence will continue to be the seasonal factors which we've previously discussed.
That is about 30% of our bookings typically occur in the first quarter of the year about 20% in each of the second and third quarters and over 30% in the fourth quarter.
Moreover the first quarter presents the year's largest renewal pool and the fourth quarter has the highest percentage of new business.
On the top line these factors typically cause revenue to trend down from the fourth to the first quarter before resuming sequential growth beginning in the second quarter.
We anticipate that incremental resource deployment will again happen mostly in the first half of the year which is also the time that annual cost increase for salaries and benefits occur.
Accordingly as was the case in 2011 you should expect that our earnings will be more heavily weighted to the second half of the year in 2012.
That's it for the financial summary.
Please turn to Slide 9 and I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Rich.
Good morning.
As Rich made clear we are pleased to have delivered another solid quarter of performance that sets us up for continued progress in 2012.
Let me start by sharing with what we're hearing from our members about the economic climate in our end markets.
We're privileged to work with 5 700 companies across the world.
This unique perch gives us a valuable view into corporate sentiments and budget trends.
As you may have seen in the media we've just released our most recent quarterly Business Barometer which aggregates and benchmarks spending plans across large enterprises globally.
We had more than 2 000 responses from C-level executives around the world so it is a very broad cross-section of corporate outlooks.
This most recent poll shows that corporate expectations have modestly brightened but are still tinged by real caution particularly with regard to hiring.
For the first time in a while the overwhelming majority of companies roughly 2/3 are expecting top line organic revenue growth.
As you'd guess this number is higher in North America and lower in Europe.
This optimism about top line growth is offset by concerns about rising energy and commodity costs with roughly 60% of companies expecting costs on those 2 fronts to rise.
The combination of low organic growth and core cost pressure is shaping corporate spending plans.
CapEx and R&amp;D budgets are edging up as companies seek to carve out growth through innovation and wise deployment of technology.
But they are not yet planning on stepping up hiring levels.
Even those companies projecting revenue growth predict at this point modest hiring plans.
The picture that emerges from our data is one  where companies are pushing hard for continued productivity gains to generate the capital and P&amp;L room for growth investments and all the while remaining highly sensitive to their ability to manage significant risk events.
We think that our resources are particularly valuable in an environment where optimizing returns from talents driving innovation and managing risk are high corporate priorities.
With this opportunity as a backdrop we continue to focus on 3 levers for growth in our business which are captured on Slide 9.
First we grow relationships with existing customers.
This is our largest and most scalable growth opportunity over time as we work to connect more of our resources to the more than 5 700 companies in our network.
Our continued strong Wallet retention reflects our success in maintaining these relationships.
Second we add new customers.
As Rich described our teams turned in a very strong performance on this front in 2011.
Last year we added 500 new companies globally.
While I'm pleased with that progress more than 15 000 companies across the globe have yet to initiate a relationship with us.
We are concentrating our investments in markets with large opportunity such as middle market and select global markets.
Third we add new products and services that target uncovered needs in our key buying centers.
Developing these products and services requires near-term investment that provides platforms for future growth and helps strengthen relationships with member companies.
We put some strong new products in the market last year.
I'm particularly pleased with the robust growth of our academies platform which complements our analytic and best-practice assets by upscaling member teams to take advantage of them.
As I've updated you on for the past several quarters we have 4 core operating priorities that we use to move these growth levers.
You can see them captured on Slide 10.
Creating must-have data and insights building brand strength through member impact globalizing the business and delivering innovative products and services.
Let me spend a minute on each priority.
Please turn to Slide 11 as I discuss our first priority creating must-have data and insights.
Our business begins and ends with relevant and authoritative data and contents.
We seek to assemble vast data assets on the drivers of corporate performance and create insights tools and best practices that help members act on them.
In 2011 our team produced outstanding content across all of our practice areas including insights into the demand on leaders in newly global companies the technology and people implications of data abundance and how the professionalization of purchasing has changed B2B sales.
I'd like to spend a moment highlighting an insight from our marketing arena.
To the right on Page 11 you can see that one pressing challenge for marketers is the emergence of the spindle purchase path.
You can see the traditional sales funnel to the top.
But as social and mobile media bombard consumers with information and choices consumers now follow a longer more complex path to a decision.
In fact our data shows that 80% of consumers delay their brand choice until the point of sale as they continually revisit and evaluate information and new choices.
The result is that consumers are less sticky often trading off to alternative brands.
Our research findings show that there is a way to win in this environment.
Consumers are rewarding the brands that are simplifying purchase decisions for them the tunnel process we see at the bottom of the page.
To help our members we have identified the drivers of purchase simplicity and profiled member tools and best practices for simplifying purchase paths.
This insight and more importantly the tools to act on it helps for very high levels of member usage and fast growth in our marketing products.
It also creates new opportunities for follow-on service that we currently exploring.
Please turn to Slide 12 building brand strength through member impact.
Our long-term objective here is to leverage effective support of our members to grow relationships.
In 2011 we invested in new sales teams a major upgrade in training and development of our commercial teams and the CEB brand.
The result was highest-ever usage levels by our members and a notable uptick in our Tier 1 media coverage.
One of the really exciting highlights of 2011 was the publishing of The Challenger Sale authored by Brent Adamson and Matt Dixon through Penguin's Portfolio imprint.
Based on insights drawn from our rich data on the drivers of customer loyalty and sales rep effectiveness the book helped extend our work and brand to the broader business community.
We also positioned this book at the center of a major multichannel communications effort that drove unprecedented engagement with our content across earned and social media platforms and for the first time ever substantive directly flow to our sales organization.
Expect more great member service and public discussion of our impact in 2012 as we refine simplify and amplify our message to the market.
Please turn to Slide 13 globalizing the business.
Here we focus our energy on the largest corporate markets.
While there are more than 200 members of the United Nations there are only 15 markets with more than 200 large-cap companies and only 7 with more than 500.
As you'd guess these are the markets we intensively target and cultivate.
We focused our investments in several key markets in 2011 most notably Germany as we opened a Frankfurt office and acquired the great team at Baumgartner &amp; Partner.
Our Asia Pacific operations also continue to scale as we work to broaden our product portfolio there.
We supported this market-level insight -- sorry market-level investments with uniquely relevant insights from our vast data assets.
One particularly compelling example was an analysis of an emerging leadership gap throughout fast-growing Asian markets.
Our data shows that just 26% of Asia's existing leadership level think here of senior and middle management believe that their successors are ready to move to executive roles.
This compares to 43% in the rest of the world and indicates that traditional management systems that take for granted an expansive well-prepared leadership team are likely to fail in this vital environment for corporate growth.
This insight opened doors for our sales and service teams throughout the region and paved the way for fast growth of our human capital resources.
Please turn to Slide 14 delivering innovative products and services.
The biggest news here is our recent acquisition of Valtera Corporation.
Valtera is one of the world's most respected and influential providers of insight tools and solutions that help the world's largest companies drive productivity through great management of human capital.
By adding their business to ours we gained 4 fertile sources of value.
First as always uniquely valuable data and insight.
With deep grounding in the science of work Valtera's team has built up powerful tools and rich data sets that help leadership teams engage and motivate employees select and assess talent and drive overall business outcomes.
They conduct the annual employee survey and follow-on analytics for many of the world's most progressive and complex companies and through this process have assembled an impressive data set which includes global benchmarks featuring data from more than 30 countries and validated a set of powerful analytic tools.
Together these resources help companies decide how best to organize compensate and manage their employee base the single largest cost item for most companies.
By combining these assets with the powerful analytics and robust management tools in our own CLC Genesee platform we now possess the industry's most valuable data analytics and resources on driving employee productivity and employee engagement.
Valtera has also built highly valuable insights and data to help companies select and evaluate talent.
Beyond offering unique data on recurring work these resources will help us to address member needs that we currently don't support.
We see an opportunity here not only to expand our support for our core HR and recruiting customers but also to meet demands that we get from other executives on talent issues.
Most obviously sales executives are always looking for better tools to evaluate and select better sales talent a request which has increased fivefold as we have worked to redefine what great salespeople actually look like based on real sales performance.
If you think about Valtera we not only acquired a great existing business but some new assessment capabilities we expect to grow over the coming years within our much broader member footprint.
Second Valtera brings us a tremendous customer list.
Valtera's analytic strength has allowed them to build a following among a uniquely elite array of progressive companies.
And their customers are not only impressive they are loyal.
Valtera has earned one of the most strongest reputations and highest renewal rates in our industry.
Third Valtera has developed leading technology.
Valtera's analytic and interface technologies are powerful compliments to our GenView platform.
Together we'll give the world's most progressive companies a wide and deep suite of tools to generate interpret and act on data about employees productivity and company populations.
Fourth and most importantly with Valtera we get a remarkable team.
We first learned of Valtera through our customers' eyes.
We have always been impressed with the high levels of respect they command from some very sophisticated customers.
As we have worked with them over the past few months we've been really impressed not only by their insight but by their energy integrity and commitment to using science and analysis to drive corporate performance.
We're excited to have them as colleagues.
The Valtera acquisition illustrates several core areas of focus for our new product development efforts and acquisition strategies.
None of them should be surprising to those who follow us.
First it targets one of our most important buying centers heads of HR and their teams at large operating companies.
Second it targets and improves large-dollar decisions in work places where people spend real money and need real help.
Third it has built up unique analysis and content.
And fourth it uses strong technology to link to member work.
One way in which the Valtera business is different than many of our businesses is that customers often demand more help in implementing their solutions or in interpreting their data.
And as a result there can be heavier mix of high-end service along with a scalable IP platform.
In this end some of their revenues more came to our CLC Genesee business our Leadership Academies platforms than to our core subscription memberships.
All of these platforms are highly profitable on their own and members who use them end up even more deeply engaged in our membership platforms so we're happy to see them thrive.
Our overall corporate margin will always reflect a blend between our high-margin subscription businesses and some businesses that while slightly lower than the corporate average defend and extend our core assets.
All that said we see real synergy from bringing these businesses together.
The first and most obvious opportunity is to use our strong sales and service organization to introduce their products and solutions to a broader array of our huge member network.
This will accelerate Valtera's growth and expand our margins in this business.
We also see the ability to leverage their very strong relationships to expand our footprint at some key Fortune 100 customers.
Overall we are very excited to welcome the team to CEB and to introduce their people and their capabilities to our strong member network.
To sum up please turn to Slide 15.
We accomplished some important objectives in 2011.
We achieved a healthy top line growth while delivering on our commitments in maintaining a strong financial profile.
Entering 2012 we are well positioned to continue the pursuit of healthy sustainable growth.
Let me close with a message about my CEB colleagues around the world.
We made strong progress in 2011 on building a great team to take on the opportunities we've discussed today.
We were successful in attracting new staff to the firm with good recruiting performance and also sustained high levels of retention among our top performers.
We continued making investments to bring our employment value proposition to life including the buildout of comprehensive training and development support for all of our staff around the globe.
It's a privilege to work with an incredibly talented team that is relentlessly focused on getting even better.
By treating the milestones we achieved in 2011 not as an end point but as a platform for continued improvement together we'll drive the firm's growth and impact.
I'm proud of what we've achieved and look forward to seeing what heights we'll reach in 2012.
We'll now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Wondering about if you could give any color on what you're planning for headcount additions in the sales force for the upcoming year? David it's Rich.
I think you should assume that we'll be growing headcount there roughly in line with sales for the year.
Research Division</strong> And how is productivity ramping for the people you added in 2011? David sales force performance is always a tenure mix game.
And I think we saw first and foremost great retention of our top performers.
And so that overall helps overall sales performance.
We've invested heavily in some new training firms to get our newer commercial staff down the learning curve and we're quite pleased with the results of those investments so far.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the gross profit sort of thinking about how that will develop I'm assuming Valtera has a bit lower gross profit but you continue to add members to the existing membership base.
So I was just sort of thinking about that mix.
What would be kind of the underlying improvement in gross margin minus the mix effect? If you could help quantify those in any way.
Yes I mean I think as you see from our overall margins the range implies overall an expectation of improvement on the existing platform offset by some impact from Valtera.
I think if you work through the numbers based on the guidance we gave you you'd see that that probably holds back margins by roughly 30 to 40 basis points.
And so the bulk of the improvement in the existing platform is going to come from scaling in G&amp;A then some scaling in cost of services and probably member relations and marketing will remain the most variable component of our cost structure.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one last one if I may.
So we should expect Contract Value for the first quarter to then include about plus or minus $15 million from Valtera? Is that the right way to think about it? I mean it could be in that range.
We -- like I said we literally just closed the transaction and so we're doing our detailed analysis of all the contracts right now.
And how much goes to Contract Value the impact on deferred revenues et cetera is still to be determined.
We will go to Tim McHugh with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just first one it's about Europe.
You gave the comment that it grew slightly slower because of the macro issues.
Can you just talk about the -- I guess I know you don't give a lot of color about interquarter trends.
But given how the issues in Europe have seemed to kind of intensify over the last 4 to 5 months have you seen a change I guess as we progressed from last fall into early this year? Or has it been pretty steady? I think the framing thought is that we saw healthy growth across EMEA in 2011 but it was beneath the corporate average.
In general what we saw is executives were anxious to keep the support they were getting.
But as the debt concerns mounted they were less willing to commit to new sources of spending.
As a result our teams had to work hard to earn that growth I think particularly in the fourth quarter.
We don't expect this to change radically in the near-term.
Our data on executive plans suggests that execs across the EMEA will maintain this cautious posture.
But the short -- it's important also that the short-term cloud doesn't diminish our longer-term enthusiasm for these markets.
They were about 20% of our overall business.
We are underpenetrated and we still plan to make careful investments to sustain our growth and increase our market position across time.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the margins for Valtera can you talk about -- you said what they are today.
I guess are things that you hope to do or expect to do that would make the margins different in 2 to 3 years as you see this acquisition playing out? Sure.
Yes we do think that as the business scales up and we'll get some leverage out of our existing cost platform it can reach margins that over time approach the CEB average.
But I think that some of the secret sauce in the business is the intensive work they do from time to time helping customers interpret and take action on the resources they have developed.
And that suggests that even as margins expand they'll be lower than our corporate average.
Given that this business extends our core assets defends our core assets deepens our relationships we're happy to have that happen and we do think accelerating their growth through our really broad distribution footprint will automatically create some nice leverage in their P&amp;L.
Research Division</strong> So there's nothing significant you'd change in the way they do business.
You're just approaching it with your view is as it grows you should get scale benefits.
Yes.
As it grows and benefits from some of our broader platform.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question would just be the Wallet retention rate.
It's relatively flattish year-over-year but it has slided down a little bit sequentially.
There's a bunch of different factors that go into that between cross-sell and retention and we don't see all those.
So I guess can you give us some color on what maybe is driving it down a little sequentially the last couple of quarters? I think we're still letting that metric burn in.
And the most important point is that it's pretty much flat to last year Q4.
We always talk about Q4 as being our seasonal focus on new business.
And I expect over time you're going to see that reflected in Wallet retention.
You've seen the numbers settle into a pretty nice range in the high 90s low 100s.
That plus strength in new member acquisition and solid Contract Value growth per member set us up very well for healthy growth.
Given the size of our member network engaging and growing these relationships is always job one.
So I don't expect you're going to see us take our energy and focus off that.
You've heard a lot about the investments we've done in our channel our digital platform advisory capabilities et cetera.
And you should expect we'll continue to be very focused on great and industry-leading outcomes here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean but is retention and cross-sell weakening at all? Or are those holding consistent with? You mentioned you still track those internally.
Yes.
No these numbers are very consistent with the seasonal patterns we saw last year.
And all the numbers underneath that all the key drivers are very consistent with historical patterns.
We'll go to Suzi Stein with Morgan Stanley next.
Research Division</strong> It's Toni on for Suzi.
Can you talk about the pricing environment? Are you able to implement the 3% to 5% price increases that you had laid out? And if you compare it sort of this quarter to last quarter was there a noticeable change in the environment? And finally do you expect a similar 3% to 5% increase in pricing for the contracts in 2012 as they renew? Yes Toni this is Rich.
The short answer is we've seen the same trends in fourth quarter that we saw throughout the year.
We were very pleased by our ability to maintain price increases in that 3% to 5% range.
And that is our expectation going forward in 2012.
We haven't seen any notable change in the environment or the patterns with our customers.
I think it remains the primary basis for the purchase decision remains the overall value we're delivering to our customer.
And it's not a price-focused discussion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the opening remarks I think you mentioned former members resubscribing.
Was that a bigger factor this quarter than usual? Or is that sort of a consistent theme that you have? I'd say it's more consistent.
I mean we do have people who rejoin us.
I wouldn't say it contributed any more or less than it has in prior quarters.
It's just one of the factors that contributes to the growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And lastly regarding M&amp;A you've made a couple acquisitions recently with Valtera this quarter and one last quarter.
Are valuations looking more attractive right now than previously? Or if you could just comment on that.
Yes.
We always see M&amp;A as a subset of new product development so we start with identified member need in one of our key buying centers.
Then we ask the question: Is it better for us to build the product ourselves for somebody that has already done the hard work of creating unique intellectual property valuable data-grade technology? That most of the time as you know the answer is build it ourselves.
So we'd be hard-pressed to call this an M&amp;A spree.
But for a couple of the needs that we have identified we happen to have encountered very uniquely valuable assets over the past couple of quarters.
And I don't think it was driven so much by valuation as the confluence of an identified member need a uniquely valuable resource and an opportunity to build a shared vision of a business together with those management teams.
We haven't seen valuations move around all that much.
We'll take our next question from Gary Bisbee with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I guess a couple of questions.
I want to go back to the Wallet retention for a bit.
Given the number of products you have in the broad sort of set of products I guess I struggle to understand why the reasonable goal for that metric is especially given 3% to 5% price is to be high 90s to low 100s.
Basically flat is what you're saying.
It would seem to me there should be an opportunity particularly with price to continue to grow that.
I guess what are the gating factors to doing so? Do you think in a much more robust economy that that will be an expectation that would make more sense for that to grow at some healthy rate? Or how do we -- just give me some context on how to think about that number.
Sure.
Gary as we've said that number is pretty consistent from last year at this time.
So we're happy with where it is.
And at the same time we think that is a huge opportunity in the business to continue focusing on growing our existing relationships with our installed base.
So if you ask me the question: How many of your 5 700 member companies do as much business as you'd like to see with you? The answer is none.
We've had a huge opportunity to grow these relationships across time.
And the math at the end of the day is a factor of none of our products have a renewal rate of 100%.
So you automatically at any membership are losing some relationships.
They're having to rebuild through new sales and pricing power.
And you do -- we don't have 100% member renewal rate either.
So you've got 2 headwinds if you will that we then go off and build a book of business against.
But the overall frame that we wake up every morning and say "How do we excel at first and foremost engaging and retaining and supporting the members we have and then delivering such value they feel comfortable taking on a modest price increase and then finding new opportunities for us to serve and support?" That is breakfast lunch and dinner for us here every day.
So no argument from me on that front.
And I think we have opportunities to continue to build there through great execution.
And we're pleased with the outcomes thus far.
We think they benchmark very favorably against what you see elsewhere in nature.
But that doesn't take our edge off at all for pursuing it more aggressively across time.
Research Division</strong> How should it -- can you give us any more sort of concrete data points or anecdotal points on the new business development and sales model with a single relationship at a customer within one of the broadly defined vertical areas? I think you've said in the past that that had helped with retention or you'd seen some benefit there.
But is that a gating factor to growing this fast? That these people just have too much going on? Because it seems pretty obvious with a new customer you put more feet on the street.
You go meet with new customers and you're growing that very well.
But again maybe some more color on how that's impacting it or whether you have good data points on how that's going.
I think we're happy with the account management structure we've put in place over the past couple of years.
And I think every one of those people is deeply incented to grow their book of business.
And I think the business they're likely to generate and that they are generating is pretty healthy because it begins first and foremost with great impact on what a chief HR officer cares about or what a CFO cares about.
And through that impact we create opportunities to serve and meet new needs.
So I'm very pleased with the progress thus far.
We certainly see opportunities to improve.
We see opportunities to improve every facet of the business every year.
So I don't think anybody here is resting on their laurels but it's not a gating factor.
In fact if anything it's a pathway to great success on that front.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question on the guidance.
The year-to-year growth of cost this quarter as you told us it would decelerated and was pretty modest.
The guidance for the year seems to imply a pretty significant -- maybe a moderate reacceleration of cost growth.
Given the wide range of guidance -- and I realize part of it is probably driven by the wide range of top line guidance.
But where are the factors that could lead to less spending growth and higher earnings versus more spending growth? How good a handle do you have on it today? And what factors would lead you to make those decisions to scale it up or scale it down? Yes I mean obviously one of the factors that is going to influence expense growth is the acquisition.
That comes along with the cost structure so that's going to be part of it.
I think we are -- as we did last year we are planning to hire more salespeople to put more capacity out there and also hire the support staff that goes along with those folks.
We're going to be deploying some more money in product development efforts.
That's an area that we could potentially scale up or down depending on how the year is playing out and how the -- what the revenue trajectory looks like.
And I'd say those -- and there are other kind of -- some variable costs that come along with revenue and the size of the membership base as well that are going to influence it.
So broadly speaking those would be the key drivers that I'd highlight.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one last question.
I appreciate the dividend increase.
It looks to me like it's only an incremental $4 million though.
You've got $144 million of cash and you're generating cash at a really high level.
Why -- I understand your commentary on buybacks.
But why not be more aggressive there? Should we read into this that there is likely to be a continuing string of these acquisitions? Or is there some other reason maybe the board decided not to be more aggressive on the dividend? Gary it's a good problem to have.
The business generates a lot of cash and we have a lot of cash.
As Rich showed you on the slide we've shown a real commitment to deploying that cash effectively in a number of different dimensions by getting it back to shareholders through both buyback and the dividend deploying it in the business through CapEx and very selective and I'll note to-date pretty small acquisitions and maintaining a very strong financial position so that we can be opportunistic on any of those fronts as scenarios unfold.
So I don't think you've seen a sea change from us.
I wouldn't interpret any huge signal in any dimension.
If anything the signal is that we're committed to wise deployment of the asset the business generates.
And you saw us do that in 2011.
I don't think you'll see any sea change in how we think about it in 2012.
It's a nice feature of the business and it's something the board pays a lot of attention to.
We'll go to Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just another Wallet retention question maybe from a different angle.
Has there been any change in focus in the organization about growing new members? And then obviously new member growth was great in 2011.
Is that more of the focus in Wallet retention? Can you talk to that? And was member growth greater internationally? I'm sure it was than in the U.S.
But can you maybe talk about how big the dispersion was? Then I've got a couple of housekeeping follow-ups.
Sure.
At the very top line Paul some of it is just seasonal.
As we've said fourth quarter is the time when I'd say corporate executives are more open and  have more visibility into new budgetary commitments and new operational commitments they've got to go get after.
And as a result they're more open to a conversation what sort of help they need to go get them done.
So unlike renewals where people have a sense of how they use you how they're going to use you the value they get that window is a little more open in Q4 as corporate budgets settle out and people gain perspective on the next year's priorities.
So there is a seasonal effect that I wouldn't ignore there.
That said new member growth was strong.
We were pleased with it.
And it does reflect investments we've made both in international markets and continue to grow middle markets.
And we also put more resources into our North American large corporate sales organization last year.
And that group did a great job.
So it was a deliberate focus of investment strategy and we're very pleased not only with their success last year but the fact that these members are now all set up to get on to the growth path of cross-sell and retention and price increase across time.
But it was a deliberate effect.
I don't think there's any tremendous news internationally because we made investments both in North America in large corporate sales and internationally.
So it was a pretty even outcome globally.
Research Division</strong> And Baumgartner was immaterial to client growth? Largely yes.
They do have some members that we didn't have and we have some members they don't have.
And in Germany that just gives us a much nicer richer broader immediate footprint.
But remember Baumgartner is pretty small.
So the number of new logos they brought to us was pretty small.
We're excited about the people.
We're excited about asset.
But the number of new logos I don't think it was material against the overall backdrop.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Then just the housekeeping questions.
Was there any Contract Value related to IT Toolbox? I don't think there probably was.
But if there was what was it? And what was the impact to the fourth quarter? And then will we get revenue by quarter for IT Toolbox and EBITDA losses? Or will we get that in the pro formas as you report the next year? Yes Paul.
On the first question no there wasn't any Contract Value that had been associated with IT Toolbox.
The nature of its revenues were different and didn't lend themselves to the Contract Value definition.
Our plan -- we did provide these pro forma schedules this quarter to provide additional insight for you to help interpret the results.
We don't plan on providing those same schedules going forward.
What we do have though if you look at the appendix of our earnings presentation you can see we've laid out on an annual basis what the business looks like excluding Toolbox or basically consistent with the presentation going forward.
So hopefully you find that helpful.
Research Division</strong> Was there -- do you think there was any -- looking back was there any major EBITDA loss variations between the first 3 quarters of 2011? No I mean I think it was fairly consistent.
And we'll take our next question from Dan Leben with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just to kind of follow up on this path we're working down on Wallet retention.
So with Wallet retention 100% looking at the Contract Value per institution moving higher obviously bringing in some very large new customers and new customer growth could you talk about some of the reasons for success there? Is it simply a focus? Is it recapturing some lost Contract Value? Help us understand the dynamics there.
Sure.
At a very macro level it reflects our investment in large corporate sales both internationally and domestically.
We put money to work.
We talked about that early last year and you saw that reflected in the P&amp;L over the last year.
And those teams came through within the calendar year which is always great so that it reflects a deliberate investment we made.
And at the same time continued strength in middle market growth so new members sales was strong across-the-board.
Research Division</strong> Help us understand what's going on in the middle market.
If that average Contract Value for institution meaning multiple memberships in the new base how -- doesn't that reflects some just numerical there has to be some weakness in middle market? Or help us understand that dynamic there.
You're not wrong that it's an average of middle market and large corporate.
It gives you some sense of strength in large corporate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one for me.
Have you gone back and looked at kind of late '09 the Contract Value had at that point.
Kind of what was lost in the great recession? Kind of what percentages of that have you now gone back and recaptured? You can imagine we look at it pretty carefully and try to understand it.
I think at a very macro level we feel good about our ability to reinitiate relationships that we may have lost.
And generally the pattern that happened across the great recession was we kept our customer base they spent less with us and they've reexpanded that spend which feels good.
At an operational level it tends to be a little more complicated in that executives turnover.
And even if XYZ company was a member and had to drop you're often sitting across the table from a new executive with a new set of problems.
So it's not as simple as an on-off switch.
The team getting in there often with a new team often with a new set of challenges sometimes with a totally new corporate profile and building a new relationship.
So we feel very good about the progress we've made.
Some of it is reinitiation of lapsed relationships some is a complete new sale.
But overall it looks quite healthy.
We'll go to Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of just kind of housekeeping stuff.
If I calculate the bookings they look like they were only 7.6% year-over-year.
Should I be adjusting for the $2.5 million for the accounting change which brings them up to a little bit over 9% in order to look at the bookings year-over-year? I mean that certainly is a factor that plays into when you do that calculation.
Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is that a fair calculation in terms of how much the bookings actually did grow year-over-year? I think it's a reasonable approximation.
Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So when I think of the revenue guidance should I be thinking of the midpoint minus say $13 million $14 million from acquisition growth? And if you kind of take that number which would be like $532 million or something that approximates kind of the bookings growth in the fourth quarter of about 9% on an organic basis? I think what Rich said was we would guess that -- well again at this point we're days into the integration with Valtera.
We have not had the chance to go through every contract and figure out how much flows through into revenue this year.
Our best estimate at this point is $10 million to $12 million not $13 million to $14 million so it's a slightly lower amount.
We'll update you as we get -- adapt those contracts to our methods of accounting and our contract format.
So there's probably some more news to come but that $13 million to $14 million sounds a little higher than our initial estimate would be.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then in terms of the EPS mix over the year in this last year you basically had like 62% plus of EPS coming in the second half so it's much more back end-loaded should we think of the pattern in 2012 just basically as a repeat? Yes I think that we would expect it to be broadly similar.
Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when I look at large corporate memberships versus middle market memberships you had a very large overall membership growth.
Is there a significant weighting towards middle market? Or did you guys do particularly well in the large corporate? Just going back to one of the questions that was asked beforehand you wouldn't expect to see the average Contract Value per member go up that much with what I would assume is a very large middle market additions as a percentage of the total.
No it's safe to say we feel good about new member acquisition both in large corporate and middle market.
And the relative size of the 2 businesses a a good year in large corporate is going to make that number look attractive.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when you think of Valtera we don't have that much familiarity with it how much of the business is really sort of a consulting model? The core of the business is an annual set of activities they go through to help large companies understand what is motivating engaging attracting and driving productivity for their employee base.
So it's got a nice healthy annual book of business.
On top of that there are a variety of things they do at different points in time to help a company make best use of a particular finding or drive a particular outcome.
So it's a mix of great scalable IP which we like recurring business which we like and some bespoke work that they do to help people make great use of those capabilities.
So it's all of the above.
As I said in the call it's got more of the third category than most of our businesses but we're very comfortable that that's important that they're delivering the outcomes they need.
And it's a very sticky product.
So I don't have any intention of getting into that laboratory and trying to remix the formula.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's what I'm trying to get at.
So it really is kind of a niche-y thing that fits on to their business and it's not really any broader foray into any consulting.
No there are definitely one-off services they provide to their customer base through their longer-term relationships no question about it.
And there are things they do that are more service-intensive than some of our core membership businesses.
But it fits very nicely with our focus on core buying centers key workflows recurring activity sets and high-dollar decisions.
So we're very pleased to have them on board.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then one last question just on the IT Toolbox sale.
I want to make sure I'm understanding correctly.
It was $0.07 of losses generated from the loss on sale and then roughly $0.07 of operational losses that are spread fairly evenly over the year.
That's correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when I'm comping we're basically taking out of $0.07 of operational losses when I go forward to next year? Yes correct at least as it relates to 2011.
Our last question will be a follow-up from Tim McHugh with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick one on the depreciation and amortization guidance.
I think you said $1.5 million to $2 million for Valtera.
So if you back that out the D&amp;A still I guess at the midpoint in the range projected to be up a couple million dollars.
And that's kind of a reversal of the last few years as you've seen that line decline I guess as the CapEx has been much lower than that D&amp;A level.
What's -- why I guess the change in that trend this year? Yes.
As you pointed out certainly the amortization is a chunk of that not only from the Valtera but from the other acquisitions we've done previously.
The other thing is obviously the CapEx is going to be the big driver in terms of where that lands in overall spend for the year.
We do have a chunk of that that's going to come in as we integrate these businesses and that will influence it.
So those would be the main factors.
And I'll turn the conference back over to Mr.
Tom Monahan for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks everybody for calling in or logging in this morning.
Rich and I will be out on the road over the next couple weeks and we'll also be at the Deutsche Bank and Baird conferences both in February.
As you should have seen in the press release we'll host an investor day for institutional investors and sell-side analysts at our offices in Washington D.C.
-- I'm sorry in Arlington Virginia on May 17.
And we look forward to seeing a good number of you there.
Thanks for dialing in today.
We look forward to using these opportunities to keep you all up to date on CEB's continued progress.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Corporate Executive Board's First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through May 11 by dialing (719) 457-0820.
The replay passcode is 5476246.
The replay will also be available beginning later today and through May 11 at the company's website and at www.earnings.com.
To the extent any non-GAAP financial measure is discussed in today's call you will also find a reconciliation of that measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated according to GAAP by going to the company's website and following the Investors link to yesterday's news release.
You will also find a PDF of the supporting materials that the company will use in its prepared remarks this morning by going to the Investors page and following the link to the first quarter earnings conference call.
Please review the second page of these materials which includes important information about any forward-looking information included in the presentation.
This conference call may also contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements among others regarding the Corporate Executive Board's expected quarterly and annual financial performance for fiscal 2012 or beyond.
For this purpose any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing discussions of forecasts estimates targets plans beliefs expectations and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
You are hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by important factors among others set forth in the Corporate Executive Board's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its first quarter news release.
Consequently actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the conference over to the company's Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Richard Lindahl.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
I'm Rich Lindahl Chief Financial Officer of the Corporate Executive Board.
Thank you for calling or logging into our first quarter 2012 earnings call.
Here's a quick overview of our time together this morning.
I'll start with a summary of highlights for the quarter and review our financial outlook for 2012.
Tom Monahan our Chief Executive Officer will provide an update on our key strategic priorities and then we will take your questions.
Please turn to Slide 3 of our presentation which serves as a roadmap for our conversation this morning.
Our overall theme is that we got off to a solid start against this year's objectives.
On balance our operating teams once again delivered very good results and positioned us for additional growth throughout the year.
Our financial performance was steady with double-digit gains and top line metrics accompanied by strong growth in earnings and cash flow.
We expect the financial pattern of the year to unfold as we have previously guided.
And as a result we are on track to deliver against the outlook we shared in February.
And finally we will update you on the progress we continue to make against our longer-term strategic objectives.
Please turn to Slide 4 for a discussion of our key growth drivers.
Our teams made good overall progress securing important relationships and building pipelines for the rest of the year.
Overall bookings grew even in comparison to last year's very strong first quarter led by solid performance in North America and strong results by our Asia Pacific team.
In EMEA outcomes were mixed as our service-led strategies produced solid renewals but obtaining new business continued to be harder to come by in the quarter.
Lastly there was little divergence from an industry perspective as bookings from all vertical markets were in line with firm average.
Moving on to our operating metrics.
Wallet retention rate at March 31 2012 was 99% compared to 104% last year.
We continue to be satisfied that this is a healthy outcome consistent with our historical experience and in line with or favorable to other peer companies that report this metric.
A few factors influenced the year-over-year change.
First the prior year's figure benefited from a onetime step-up due to the addition of Iconoculture and pricing performance contributed less growth compared to last year.
Consistent with our longer-term guidance we still expect annual increases -- price increases to be in the roughly 3% to 5% range.
However after a strong performance in 2011 we are currently seeing price increases trend towards the lower end of that range.
We remain confident that our focus on delivering business value will continue to support favorable renewal price increase and cross-sell outcomes over time.
Total institutions increased by 8.6% year-on-year in the first quarter driven mostly by growth in middle market institutions but also due to an increase in a number of large corporate customers.
As you know obtaining new business remains an important component of our long-term growth strategy as a means of reinforcing the strength of our network and laying the foundation for future renewals in cross-sell activity.
Because the number of middle market institutions grew faster than large corporate on a blended basis total Contract Value for institution increased 1.5% in the first quarter even though the growth rates were stronger at the end market level.
Please turn to Slide 5.
As you can see our first quarter financial results produced double-digit gains in Contract Value revenues and deferred revenues reflecting a good balance of positive current returns and healthy future prospects.
We also saw the benefits of our economic model which continued to produce solid cash flow as the top line grew.
These results reflect the general pattern for the year that we anticipated and are consistent with the outlook we shared with you on our last earnings call.
At March 31 2012 Contract Value was $490.2 million which is an increase of 10.3% from March 31 2011.
This figure includes approximately $4 million of Contract Value from Valtera and Baumgartner.
Regarding this inorganic portion note that due to differences and how these entities have historically contracted with customers you will see a smaller portion of their annual revenues reflected in Contract Value that is typical for our subscription businesses.
These items thus slightly increase our mix of repeatable non-subscription services which will continue to influence the relationship of Contract Value to revenue over time.
Revenues were $128.5 million in the first quarter of 2012 a 13.1% increase compared to $113.6 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Revenue growth was mostly a result of the solid bookings trends we just discussed and was further enhanced by approximately $2 million of inorganic revenue.
Moving on to operating expenses.
Cost of services in the first quarter of 2012 increased by $3.9 million versus the first quarter of 2011 largely driven by acquired businesses as well as increased headcount and related expenses in the product functions.
Member relations and marketing expense increased by $3.2 million in the first quarter versus the prior-year period as a result of increased sales and marketing staff as well as higher commissions due to the growth of bookings over the past year.
The addition of Valtera and Baumgartner also contributed a portion of the increase.
General and administrative costs increased by $0.5 million in the first quarter of 2012 versus the first quarter of 2011.
Nearly all of this net increase was from expenses that acquired entities.
And as a reminder included in Q1 2011 was $0.6 million of expense related to the Iconoculture earn-out which also provides some favorability in the comparison.
Other income was $1.4 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $1.5 million in the first quarter of 2011.
This $100 000 decrease is largely due to lower net interest income as the changes in the fair value of deferred compensation plan assets and the foreign currency gain essentially offset each other.
Adjusted EBITDA margin in the first quarter of 2012 was 24.9% versus 21.2% in the first quarter of 2011.
Adjusted margins in the quarter benefited from the normalization of revenue recognition deferrals the removal of acquisition-related costs and effective cost management.
As we discussed on our last call we are now adjusting out acquisition-related costs which were $0.5 million in the first quarter of 2012.
I'd also remind you that we do not adjust out stock compensation expense which was $2 million in the first quarter of 2012 when calculating adjusted EBITDA margin.
Depreciation and amortization in the first quarter of 2012 was $5 million an increase of $1 million compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Most of this change was from higher amortization due to the year-over-year increase in intangible assets.
There was also a small increase in depreciation from the addition of Valtera.
In the first quarter our effective tax rate was 41.4%.
We currently estimate that our full-year tax rate will be approximately 41% before the effect of foreign currency translation gains or losses.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share in the first quarter of 2012 was $0.47 an increase of 34.3% compared to $0.35 in the first quarter of 2011.
The combination of strong revenue growth effective cost management and the impact of onetime items delivered this strong outcome to start the year.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Membership fees receivable were $95.6 million at March 31 2012 as compared to $154.3 million at December 31 2011.
Average day sales outstanding were 88 days for the first quarter of 2012 consistent with historical seasonal ranges and a 2-day improvement versus the first quarter of 2011.
Deferred revenues increased seasonally and the current portion was $308.7 million at March 31 2012.
Note that due to the nature of Valtera contracts we have not recorded any deferred revenue for Valtera.
As compared to the prior year deferred revenues increased by 9.6% due to improved year-over-year bookings.
This outcome continues to bode well as a leading indicator of near-term revenue growth.
Cash flows from operations were $102.1 million for the first quarter of 2012 an increase of 20.1% over the first quarter of 2011 driven primarily by year-over-year bookings growth.
Next I'll discuss our outlook.
The following comments are intended to fall under the Safe Harbor provisions outlined at the beginning of the call and are based on preliminary assumptions which are subject to change over time.
Please turn to Slide 6.
Before I go through the details of our 2012 outlook I'll comment briefly on Valtera which Tom will discuss in more detail shortly.
The integration is going as planned and the financial impact on this year remains unchanged.
As we previously told you in terms of economics the business currently generates annual bookings in the area of $15 million due to both the upon completion nature of its invoicing and the fact that we did not acquire the business until February.
We are still assuming the contribution of Valtera to our 2012 revenue will be lower than this annualized bookings figure.
In addition as described on our last earnings call given the complexity of the data and tools the business offers producing great client impact often requires more intensive personal service than some of our subscription products.
As a result the business currently has a margin structure that is in the mid to high single-digit range which as you know is below CEB average and we have incorporated that factor into our overall margin guidance.
Based on our progress to date we remain on track to achieve our 2012 outlook.
We are anticipating full-year revenues of $535 million to $555 million.
This range assumes a reasonably stable macroeconomic backdrop and the expectation that we will drive organic revenue growth in the high single- to low double-digit range.
And as just discussed there are some differences in how Valtera and Baumgartner have historically contracted with customers.
So less annual revenue from these businesses flows through the Contract Value metric and more revenue was invoiced and recognized upon the completion of work that you've come to expect in the rest of our business.
We anticipate adjusted EBITDA margin to fall in the range of 23% to 24%.
As we said on our last call we expect that first half margins will be lower than second half margins due to the impacts of seasonality and our typical hiring patterns.
Given our first quarter performance you should expect that margins and earnings per share in the second quarter will decline meaningfully before recovering in the third and fourth quarters.
We expect a sequential increase in revenues to be offset by growth in operating expenses already underway as we incorporate a full quarter of Valtera increase headcount experience annual merit and seasonal payroll tax increases kick off our annual meeting series and ramp up product development and launch activities for the year.
In 2012 we also anticipate depreciation and amortization to range from $20 million to $22 million and effective tax rate of 41% not including the effect of foreign currency translation and capital expenditures of $12 million to $15 million.
In accordance with these revenue and margin ranges we expect 2012 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $1.75 to $2.
That's it for the financial summary.
Please turn to Slide 7 and I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Rich.
Good morning.
As Rich made clear we are pleased with our progress across the first quarter of 2012.
We've delivered a solid but not flawless quarter that provides good foundation for continued growth during the year and puts us on track to achieve our annual objectives.
As you know Q1 is our big renewal quarter and we saw our teams around the world doing a good job securing these relationships and strengthening our platform for growth.
We saw solid renewals and generally strong cross-sells and new sales.
As Rich mentioned EMEA was the outlier here.
While renewals in Europe were strong we weren't able to grow as many of these relationships as we were in North America and APAC so Europe was effectively flat year-on-year.
As we reflect on the quarter I want to share with you what we're hearing from our members about how 2012 is shaping up for them.
First in general the U.S.
economy has stabilized albeit at a less than robust level of economic growth.
Europe continues to be a source of worry for our members as austerity measures cramp growth prospects in key markets and the sovereign debt situation continues to bubble at or just beneath the surface.
Key emerging markets have of late become a source of some worry as both China and India have had minor stumbles that point to broader more concerning risks on the horizon.
Finally a series of highly visible risk management and/or ethics issues at some of the world's most respected companies are commanding attention.
Housing companies just seek to prevent or at worst respond to issues in their own companies.
Net-net our members face the world where they are: first eager to drive productivity gains share shifts and innovation through better management of their teams and talent and more effective attraction of must-have people in key labor markets like top sales talent; second they're anxious about their current deployment of resources against markets with markedly different risk and growth profiles; and third they're highly sensitive to the potential for game-changing risk events to severely impair their ability to operate.
In short our members are confronting a range of difficult issues where our ability to bring data insights and tools can help them set course and take action.
As I have shared in the past our primary growth opportunities come from 3 sources.
First growing relationships with our existing customers.
There are currently more than 5 700 companies in our global network and this group represents our largest and most important growth opportunity as we work to connect more of our resources to more of their decisions and workflows.
Second adding new customers.
There are currently more than 1 500 eligible companies around the globe who have yet to initiate a relationship with CEB.
We are taking specific steps to bring more of these companies into the CEB membership for the first time.
Third by introducing relevant new products and services.
By targeting uncovered or emerging needs in our key buying centers we are able to invest in products and services that strengthen relationships with our customers and those are platforms for new sales renewals and cross-sells.
We focus on 4 core priorities which are restated here on Slide 7 to address these opportunities.
Let me spend a moment providing an update on each one beginning on Slide #8.
First we create uniquely valuable insights into corporate performance.
As we've discussed before authoritative and relevant content built from our deep research data and analysis is critically important to the growth of our business.
Our objective here is to create must-have content that supports member performance and gives them the power to make smart timely well-informed decisions.
I'd like to share one example the key insight platform develop our technology practice.
The emerging attention to big data the increasingly overwhelming abundance of data about businesses markets and customers is now shaping member strategy in our own business opportunity.
This explosion in data availability have generated quite a bit of hype and plenty of discussion about vendors and G-Wiz case studies.
Lost in the discussion of platforms transmissions storage and mining is the simple fact that most firms sorely lack the requisite skill sets to manage and interpret rich data.
We have helped a set of member companies across industries assess the capabilities of their employees and found that only 40% of their employee base have the skills necessary to correctly manage and interpret the data at hand.
The returns from diagnosing and remedying these gaps are real.
Firms with a concentration of these people generate consistently higher levels of profitability and return.
We have called this having strong insight IQ and have designed a diagnostic to help members assess and improve their own capabilities here.
This strong work not only produced great outcomes in our technology practice but had important implications for key customer groups in HR and finance.
And as you'd expect it has also generated strong media coverage including an HBR cover story.
Please turn to Slide 9 for our next priority.
Driving loyalty growth and brand strength through member impact.
We believe that given our huge installed base of marquee customers our strongest calling card is the great impact we have on our members.
We continue to see significant gains in users usage and most importantly business value for those we support.
To help our teams keep raising the bar we are continuing to invest in new tools that help them diagnose specific member needs and align our service strategies accordingly.
But as strong as our reputation is among those who know us CEB has for too long been a well-kept secret because reach and value far exceeded its brand recognition.
We'd certainly never trade off direct customer impact for glitzy promotion but we believe that raising awareness of our value will lead to stronger sales retention and cross-sells over the long term.
For this reason we have steadily invested to expand our marketing presence and capabilities.
We have overhauled and consolidated our web presence invested in new SEO and lead-generation tools and worked to consistently document the great results member companies realize through our work.
We are also sharpening our brand communications to more clearly convey the breadth effect and value of our services.
As our service mix has broadened in a range of ways in which we help members as diversified we are making sure that we speak with one voice about mission and impact.
As part of this we continue to leverage our rich data analysis to develop compelling thought leadership positions on key topics.
These are regional and often counterintuitive insights to showcase the value of CEB's products and services especially when their reach is magnified by profiles in key publications such as The Wall Street Journal Fortune Forbes and USA TODAY.
In particular we are proud to have had at least one article on the cover of the Harvard Business Review every year for the past 3 years.
These are real investments.
Even against the backdrop of our strong margins we have more than quadrupled our marketing spend across the last several years.
We are already showing returns by reaching new buyers within our existing customer base and attracting new customers through our powerful services.
The ongoing coverage of our insights in the media coupled with increasingly more sophisticated digital marketing capability has resulted in a more than 15% increase in revenue generated from online leads.
Next please turn to Slide 10.
Investing globally in key markets.
We continue to be underpenetrated in key global markets and have been investing to increase our presence in the largest non-U.S.
corporate markets.
Last year we made step function enhancements in Germany by both the opening of a Frankfurt office the acquisition of Baumgartner &amp; Partner and by investing in our Singapore office.
We continue to see good returns from both these investments and are particularly excited by the early success and broader promise of Baumgartner &amp; Partner.
Several of that team's measurement assets and products can be skilled more broadly and we are working to do that right now.
More generally the international story is one of different trajectories.
Asia Pacific and LatAm are showing healthy rates of growth albeit of lower basis while EMEA is largely flat.
While macroeconomic factors certainly contribute to this we see much more we can do to engage the markets and drive member impact and growth.
Accordingly we have organized the teams around some important near-term objectives and are optimistic that we should see stronger growth as the year unfolds.
Please turn to Slide 11 for our final operating priority.
Leveraging technology and service to deliver innovative products.
There are 2 noteworthy updates in this area.
First I'll share an update on our Valtera acquisition and second I'll introduce the newest member product in our technology practice the IT Roadmap Builder.
In the last quarter you saw us take a significant step forward with the acquisition of Valtera.
Valtera brought us one of the world's most respected and influential providers of insight tools and solutions to help the world's largest companies drive productivity through great management of human capital.
I am pleased to report that the important work of integrating the talented staff and technology of Valtera is off to a strong start.
Working within a common management structure the CEB Valtera teams are now using a coordinated assessment approach to help members compare their organizational performance to a much broader set of external benchmarks.
On the systems side we have established a comprehensive plan to integrate the unique Valtera technology capabilities with the current CEB technology infrastructure.
Also importantly we're receiving very positive market reaction from our combined offerings.
We have been able to renew our work with existing clients such SAP Hewlett-Packard Sprint and Sony.
We're also welcoming clients who have joined since our merger such as NBCUniversal and the Gap.
We aim to continue this strong start by leveraging our participation at 2 significant events Engage Europe and CIOP.
[ph] At CIOP in particular more than 10% of the content at this year's conference was developed and presented by CEB Valtera an enormous share of the thought leadership at a conference that includes hundreds if not thousands of corporate buyers and key influencers from academia and beyond.
A second noteworthy example of our evolution in new products and technologies is the introduction of the IT Roadmap Builder product set.
The IT Roadmap Builder is a web-based management application that enables organizations to effectively manage every aspect of their technology roadmapping process.
Simply put this innovative solution allows IT organizations to automate and standardize their IT planning processes to ensure technology decisions are made with confidence and to minimize business risk.
In particular CIOs and their teams can use the tool to help answer frequent strategic planning questions such as how do we establish consistent proven criteria for assessing value and risk for every technology? How do we uncover costly redundancy across the organization? How do we assess risk associated with adopting technologies too early or too late? The development of the IT Roadmap Builder represents an organic build for us stemming from strategic research in a proprietary data set that identified the critical need for technology leadership teams.
This product has been in beta for the past year and has been one of the fastest to scale in CEB history.
I'm excited not in a way about the success of this product but by the broader opportunity that this visual technology platform represents.
While the current product offering makes ITRB one of our more technology-rich products.
At a macro level the economics are broadly similar to our existing product set at a slightly higher and sometimes materially higher price point.
At present an array of leading companies have utilized the IT Roadmap Builder including McDonald's De Beers Pitney Bowes Honeywell ABB the FAA and JPMorgan all tools representing more than 20 industries on 5 continents.
And a shameless plug for our Investor Day many of you will have the opportunity to see a test drive of the IT Roadmap Builder and our visual technology platform during a demo that we have planned during our upcoming Investor Day on May 17 in our headquarters here in Arlington.
Both CEB Valtera and the IT Roadmap Builder represent continual focus on our core strategy of linking rich contents and data to critical decisions and workflows inside our target functions.
In Valtera we identified a well-respected market leader in an area of great interest to our members and we took the step to integrate it into our broader portfolio.
And with IT Roadmap Builder we identified an uncovered need in our member strategic IT planning processes and invest in the solution to drive some more effective technology decisions.
I'm pleased with the strong start to both efforts and look forward to keeping you up-to-date as the year unfolds.
Finally let me close with some comments about the people who have driven this progress against our core priorities.
I am privileged to work inside incredibly talented colleagues who bring analytical rigor generosity of spirit and a true passion for member impact to our work.
On a daily basis I'm reminded of how well these colleagues represent our values and our brand so consistently around the world.
Talent has a critical importance to our business and we invest heavily in ensuring that we are able to grow and retain the top people we've got.
We're also attracting new talent globally.
We are looking forward to welcoming the newest staff members to join CEB and I'm excited by the possibility that they represent.
To sum up the quarter before we move to your questions I'm pleased with the solid progress that we have made early in the year and believe we are focused on the right opportunities for growth and improvement in the months to come.
We'll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Tim McHugh with William Blair &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Rich first I want to ask you -- your comment about the expenses increasing significantly in the second quarter they did somewhat last year [indiscernible] but it sounds like you're describing a bigger than normal even seasonal increase if we compared it to what you saw going from Q1 to Q2 last year.
So can you kind of explain what's different other than the Valtera acquisition? Yes Tim.
The -- certainly the Valtera acquisition is a part of it.
Another big component is going to be the impact of annual factors such as merit increases renewals of our benefits plans payroll tax that kind of thing.
Those are a little bit higher because we have more employees this year than we did last year so the increase is bigger.
We're also going to be adding more headcount and then we have other seasonal things coming into play as I mentioned earlier about starting the annual meeting series et cetera.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the pricing being at the lower end of the spectrum can you give us a little more color there? Is there any particular region or vertical? Or is it more on new sales versus renewals? Kind of what's causing it to be at the lower end of the range? Sure.
Tim yes we were -- we've targeted 3% to 5% annual price increase as a core part of the plan and we got very much the high end of that last year.
And this year I think in general we're being slightly less aggressive on that front having done a major step-up across the last 12 to 18 months.
Now as to region the big difference by our region was new sales and cross-sells.
It's our big renewal quarter so globally we're working on renewals.
But what we saw was that in APAC in North America we're able still to keep cross-selling on our way in the new budgets.
And we just -- it was just harder to accomplish that in EMEA.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- and the visualization platform here can you talk about -- is the plan over time to probably develop that beyond the IT sector? And somewhat unrelated is there any upfront implementation costs that we need to be aware of? If that starts growing a lot that there will be an upfront investment required by you to implement this with lines? Sure.
The answer like all of our technologies we look to ways to leverage them both within existing product sets and beyond.
So assume that we're always looking for ways to leverage any of the CapEx we put against technology platforms into new areas.
Right now the opportunity in IT is so immediate and we have such momentum and that's our focus right now.
Generally there isn't a ton of implementation cost to upfront.
There is an advisory layer in the product like there is in a lot of other products.
And helping clients think through how they're going to use it et cetera is something we spend time on.
Over time we expect the margin profile of this product to look very similar to our other product areas and like others it's an annual renewable subscription.
And we'll go next to Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just -- you always calculate the bookings that you guys have off the balance sheet and I know there's some moving parts.
I know you mentioned $2 million of revenue coming in the quarter from acquisitions that are not typical deferred revenue type things.
Last quarter you also mentioned in the accounting change that you expected $3.6 million to move out of deferred revenue into regular revenue just because of the accounting change and half of that to come in the first quarter.
Can you talk about whether that actually happened? Yes Shlomo this is Rich.
Yes we did recover basically what we had indicated in the first quarter.
There was an offset from other things as we've now moved to this being a more normal part of our revenue reporting.
So the net impact was really more of a push and again we're not highlighting the revenue recognition impact separately anymore just because that's now just in the sauce if you will.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I mean when I do the calculation and if I normalize for some of those items once you take out the accounting item it looks like the bookings year-over-year are up a little over 6%.
Is that fair? In that area a little bit -- probably a little less than that actually.
Yes I think that the important point being there they came in line with what we were expecting and the year is really unfolding according to what we would have expected when we talked to you last time.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So is it in -- normally you guys have -- had better bookings.
Is that just coming off of a really tough comp? I think you had like 23% or something in the year before in the way that I calculated it.
Yes certainly that is a major factor right there that it -- we had exceptionally strong growth last year and -- but we still were pleased with what we did in the first quarter and again it was right in line with what we would have expected.
Yes.
This is -- unlike last year this is how we saw this year shaping up.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So this is kind of in line with the way you guys were thinking.
What's the -- you talked about things that you saw internationally that you can address to be able to go after the market opportunity.
I was wondering when you were talking about that did you mean everyone internationally or specifically Europe where things were particularly slow? It's -- I think the international story is 2 side of the story.
One is Europe one is everything else.
Everything else is growing at a very healthy rate.
[indiscernible] strong APAC franchise had a great start to the year.
And we continue to make progress in new Latin American markets that's good.
Europe was basically flat.
The team did a great job securing renewals and we're obviously delivering a ton of business impact there.
But earning our way into new budgets is proving more difficult and that's on us.
We got to get tighter in how we message we got to be sharper on how we translate the business value we're creating into an expectation of business value in the part of new buyers.
And we're working very hard on it.
We have to use that strong track record to arm our people with messages and compelling examples and get to work.
So in the big picture I think the macro dislocation provides us with an opportunity but we have to be on our A game every day.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then following up off of the IT Roadmap Builder how many of these types of kind of IT-enabled tools or memberships do you guys have at this point in time? So every one of our products has some sort of tool at the center but there are -- you've heard us talk a lot about what we've done in HR both with our own business the Genesee acquisition the Valtera acquisition that's probably the most fully developed area of instrumentation that we've got.
And now we've got a strong -- a very strong offering in IT.
We see a number of other opportunities but in this day and age any information or any data that we provide has a pretty healthy technology wrapper around it anyway.
So it's hard to peel apart what is technology and what isn't but we certainly have gone the farthest in HR.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is the item that you have in HR is that an IT-type sale or is it really a research-type sale that is IT-enabled? The CEB Valtera line is very much about collecting and manipulating information specifically for that company against the set of broader benchmarks.
So it's a mix of technology data and professional perspective but it's very technology-rich.
We'll go next to Gary Bisbee with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Theresa Chen calling on behalf of Gary.
I just had a couple of questions about deferred revenue trends kind of a -- more of a follow-up.
It seems that even if you strip out of the onetime factors there's still underlying deceleration.
And can you just help us think about if that's a thing we should be concerned about or even if that's the correct way to look at it? No I mean we're certainly not concerned.
Again I think the trends are playing out as we would have expected.
You did see a little bit of higher growth in deferred revenue last year because -- largely because of this revenue recognition factor was an influence there.
But I think at this point this it -- it's still very healthy and consistent with the 2012 outlook that we had provided.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then moving on to Wallet retention.
So I understand that on a year-on-year basis the decline was owed to Iconoculture.
But even looking at the sequential trend it seems to be kind of edging a little lower every quarter for the past couple of quarters.
Is there a reason for this? Or how should we think about that? Yes I mean I think first of all if you look at our historical experience with Wallet retention it's right in the zone of where a healthy outcome would be.
Secondly I think we're happy with where it is in terms of how it compares to peers who report this metric as well.
And I think you're going to see that bounce around a little bit quarter-to-quarter but we think that where we are right now provides us a good solid platform to continue to grow the business off of.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last one.
We were particularly impressed with how much cash you were able to generate this quarter.
And just in terms of the outlook for buyback and such can you provide a little color on that possibly why none of that happened this quarter? Yes.
I think our priorities really are the same as they have been on capital allocation.
We certainly want to maintain a strong financial position.
We want to have the flexibility to pursue strategic investments and other opportunities such as the acquisition of Valtera in the first quarter.
And then we also want to distribute cash to shareholders.
We have focused primarily on the dividend there.
You saw that we put an annual increase in place in the first quarter and we're continuing to move forward on that.
And then opportunistically as a means of maintaining a constant share count we would intend to purchase some stock but that's we're applying the same philosophy that we've had for quite some time now.
We'll go next to Ato Garrett with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I want to get a little bit more detail on Valtera and Baumgartner acquisition impact.
You said that in this quarter it was about $4 million contribution to Contract Value.
And given the difference in the invoice and programs of Valtera can we think about the similar kind of contribution to Contract Value growth for the balance of the year from those acquisitions? That will depend.
I think as we said we have different contracts right now as we move through the year.
Wherever we can we're going to try to move them to a similar type of mechanism that we have in place for the rest of our business.
So that could lead to somewhat higher percentage of the revenue coming into Contract Value.
But all in all it's not likely to follow the same kind of trend that the rest of our subscription businesses have followed.
I think it's safe to say you're going to see some revenue come through that doesn't sit in Contract Value before closed through.
That's going to be certainly not the dominant feature of our business by any stretch the imagination but the correct way to account for some of that revenue.
We'll go next to David Ridley-Lane with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You're -- are you still seeing double-digit growth in a number of mid-market members? Or is it getting harder to sign up new of those for that group? No the only part of the business that was hard to go get new customers in was EMEA this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then following up on some of the Wallet retention numbers if you adjust out the Iconoculture step-up sort of adjust for the lower pricing Wallet retention was 102% in 2011.
What would kind of the comparable figure be adjusted for those 2 items? That's not a number we've disclosed but suffice to say it will be slightly lower.
But again we're very comfortable that where we in -- where we are right now is a very healthy range.
Yes we're bouncing around in the high end of our historical range and the underlying dynamics are good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right that makes sense.
And then on pricing being at the low end I think I heard you sort of say these prices you increased maybe sort of 3% to 4% and maybe procurement and volume discounts are dragging as well.
Or are you not seeing as much drag from kind of the involvement of procurement departments and volume discounting? We don't allow for a ton of discounting.
We do have a strategic partners program out there for our largest customers that just rewards them for our business but that's been in place for several years.
In a network-oriented business we've always believed the right business principle is to have absolutely minimal discounting.
So when we talk about lower end of the price increase range it tends to be a least phenomena where after being aggressive on that for 18 months or so the right thing to do in segments the membership was to be at the lower end of our target range rather than the higher end.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And just one final one.
Cash on the balance sheet is up over $6.50 a share.
Just to get a sense of what the excess cash is available to you here in the U.S.
what's kind of the normal balance? And then what's that excess cash level in your view? I think we're comfortable with the liquidity position we're in.
Again we're going to stay true to the philosophy we've articulated in terms of how we deploy that.
And a critical component of that is maintaining -- is ensuring that we maintain a strong financial position independent of wherever the capital market winds are blowing at any point in time.
We'll go next to Dan Leben with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I apologize I had to miss the beginning of the call.
Could you just walk me through again the impact on Wallet retention from Iconoculture? Yes.
So there was an impact of the onetime step-up essentially.
When we reported Wallet retention last year we had the benefit of Contract Value from customers we had already have the year before that also were Iconoculture customers.
So that helped the numerator but didn't impact the denominator.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And so why did that -- so I guess the underlying trend of kind of ramping up through first quarter of '11 and then to kind of down ever since why didn't we see that spike when Iconoculture closed? Was that the other dynamics going on or...
Yes I mean I think again we -- you didn't have the year-over-year comparison until you got to the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the pricing side help us just understand the thought process of moving to lower end.
Just given kind of the profitability dynamics of price increases why to make that decision this year.
No question there's nothing you can do that is as strong a driver of profitability as a price increase.
We've been very aggressive for the past 18 months going after them.
We do try to make sure within that 3% to 5% range that we're making it easy for members to make a decision and renew with us.
And as we looked at the product set and where we were we thought after being aggressive for 6 quarters or so it was time to aim a little bit more towards the lower end of that spectrum.
We're still right in our target range and we fully anticipate pricing will be a key growth driver going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one just within Baumgartner and Valtera.
The pieces that are not flowing Contract Value help us understand the seasonality or at least what you think the seasonality will be for when those contributions are likely to hit.
Yes I mean I think the overall -- the revenue is -- trend is fairly flat.
You get a little bit more contribution from Valtera in the second and third quarters but it's overall fairly flat.
We'll go next to Toni Kaplan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a little bit about the sales force.
Where are you adding people geographically? Are you a little bit lighter in Europe but still -- well aside from the acquisitions? But are you adding a lot in North America and Asia? Short answer we're adding great salespeople wherever we can find them.
We continue to make adds on a global basis.
We do think -- we're going to have to work a little harder to generate growth in Europe and therefore on balance sales productivity will be a little lower.
But where we can find great salespeople we're adding them in all of our market region and segments.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And the reference to having a higher headcount in Q2 is that due to the acquisitions or is that because of the hiring of salespeople? Yes.
I mean it's both.
I mean certainly the -- you get the full quarter impact of the acquisitions coming in in the second quarter.
And then as we're hiring folks which we -- as I mentioned those activities are very much underway that comes into play in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then lastly are you seeing any shortening in the selling cycle outside of Europe? Our sales cycle has traditionally been pretty straightforward.
Our products are priced in a way and sold the principles in a way that we enjoy a pretty compressed sales cycle.
Certainly there are some situations where it moves faster but I don't think we're seeing anything materially different off of historical trends.
And at this time there are no further questions in the queue.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Monahan for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks everyone for calling and/or logging in this morning.
Rich and I will be on the road this quarter at the BofA Merrill Lynch Business Services Conference in May and the William Blair Growth Stock Conference in June.
And we will host our Annual Investor Day for institutional investors and sell-side analysts at our offices in Arlington Virginia on May 17.
We look forward to keeping you up-to-date in this story and hopefully seeing a lot of you live at those events.
Again that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Corporate Executive Board's Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through August 9 by dialing (719) 457-0820.
The replay passcode is 540-3939.
A replay will also be available beginning later today and through August 9 at the company's website and at www.earnings.com.
To the extent any non-GAAP financial measures discussed in today's call you will also find a reconciliation of that measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated according to GAAP by going to the company's website and following the Investors link to yesterday's news release.
You will also find a PDF of the supporting materials that the company will use in its prepared remarks this morning by going to the Investors page and following the link to the second quarter earnings conference call.
Please review the second page of these materials which includes important information about any forward-looking information included in the presentation.
This conference call may also contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements among others regarding the Corporate Executive Board's expected quarterly and annual financial performance for fiscal 2012 or beyond.
For this purpose any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing discussions of forecasts estimates targets plans beliefs expectations and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
You are hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by important factors among others set forth in the Corporate Executive Board's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its second quarter news release.
Consequently actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the conference over to the company's Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Richard Lindahl.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
I'm Rich Lindahl Chief Financial Officer of CEB.
Thank you for calling or logging into our second quarter 2012 earnings call.
Here's a quick overview of our time together this morning.
I'll start with a summary of highlights from the quarter and review our revised financial outlook for 2012.
Tom Monahan our Chief Executive Officer will provide an update on our key strategic priorities then we'll take your questions.
Please turn to Slide 3 of our presentation which serves as a roadmap for our conversation this morning.
We are pleased with our second quarter results which reflect ongoing focus on delivering business value to our members.
We are entering the second half of the year with strong momentum.
We experienced sequential improvements in all of our operating metrics which led to solid growth in both revenues and earnings.
As a result we are on pace to exceed our prior non-GAAP EPS and adjusted EBITDA guidance and are raising the earnings outlook for CEB standalone.
Tom will share additional detail on some important accomplishments in the quarter that keep us on course with our key priorities.
And finally we are poised to complete the SHL acquisition this week and are excited to begin a new chapter in CEB's history.
Please turn to Slide 4 for a discussion of our key growth drivers.
As expected our teams built on the foundation established earlier in the year to deliver solid returns in the second quarter.
Consolidated bookings grew at a double-digit rate led by continued strong performance by our North American and Asia Pacific teams.
These positive outcomes were slightly offset by tougher results in EMEA where we saw modest year-over-year declines in total bookings.
From an industry perspective we once again saw balanced activity across all vertical markets.
These positive booking results were supported by sequential improvements in all of our operating metrics.
Wallet retention rate increased to 100% at June 30 2012 from 99% at March 31 2012.
The second quarter rate declined as compared to the prior year however it remains at a healthy level and we are confident that our focus on delivering business value will continue to support favorable renewal price increases and cross sell outcomes that are reflected in Wallet retention.
Total member institutions increased by 9.9% compared to last year again driven mostly by growth in middle market but also due to an increase in the number of large corporate customers.
These favorable trends support our long-term growth strategy by reinforcing the strength of our network and laying the foundation for future renewals in cross sell activity.
Once again because the number of middle market institutions grew faster than large corporate Contract Value per institution on a blended basis increased 2.1% in the second quarter even though the growth rates in this metric were stronger at the end market level.
Please turn to Slide 5.
As you can see our second quarter financial results produced solid double-digit gains across all our key financial measures.
These positive outcomes put us on pace to exceed the EPS and adjusted EBITDA margin outlook we shared at the beginning of the year and set us up well for continued progress in the second half of the year.
At June 30 2012 Contract Value was $512.7 million which is an increase of 12.2% from June 30 2011.
This figure includes $6.4 million from Valtera and Baumgartner.
Regarding this inorganic portion as we have discussed due to differences in how these entities have historically contracted with customers you will see a smaller portion of their annual revenues reflected in Contract Value than is typical for our subscription businesses.
Thus these items slightly increase our mix of repeatable non-subscription services which will continue to influence the relationship of Contract Value to revenue over time.
An and as a result when combined with other revenue recognition timing benefits revenues have grown faster than Contract Value these past few quarters.
Revenues were $135.7 million in the second quarter a 15.5% increase compared to $117.5 million in the second quarter of 2011.
Revenue growth was mostly a result of the solid bookings trends we just discussed and was further enhanced by approximately $5 million of inorganic revenue.
Moving onto operating expenses.
Cost of services in the second quarter increased by $4.2 million versus the second quarter of 2011 largely driven by acquired businesses as well as increased headcount and related expenses in the product functions.
Member relations and marketing expense increased by $3.3 million in the second quarter versus the prior-year period as a result of increased sales and marketing staff as well as higher commissions due to the growth of bookings over the past year.
The addition of Valtera and Baumgartner also contributed a portion of the increase.
General and administrative costs in the second quarter were essentially flat as compared to the prior year.
Acquisition-related costs were $2.3 million in the second quarter.
These expenses were nearly all due to the work on the SHL acquisition.
As we discussed when we announced the SHL deal on July 2 we currently expect to incur integration costs related to SHL of $10 million to $15 million over the next 18 to 24 months.
In addition we expect to recognize approximately $10 million of related transaction costs in the third quarter of 2012.
We will report both transaction and integration expenses under the category of acquisition-related costs.
Other expense was $0.7 million in the second quarter compared to other income of $0.3 million in the second quarter of 2011.
This $1 million decrease is primarily due to foreign currency translation losses and a decrease in the fair value of deferred compensation plan assets.
Adjusted EBITDA margin in the second quarter was 24.2% versus 19.8% in the second quarter of 2011.
The adjusted EBITDA margin in the second quarter benefited from the normalization of revenue recognition deferrals as well as delays in certain activities as the SHL agreement came into focus.
In addition we have adjusted out acquisition-related costs a portion of which would not have been so categorized if we had not executed the SHL purchase agreement.
I will also remind you that we do not adjust out stock compensation expense which was $2.3 million in the second quarter of 2012 when calculating adjusted EBITDA margin.
Depreciation and amortization in the second quarter was $5.9 million an increase of $1.6 million compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Most of this change was from higher amortization due to the year-over-year increase in intangible assets.
Our effective tax rate was 40.4% in the second quarter and 40.9% for the first 6 months of 2012.
We currently estimate that our full year tax rate will be approximately 41% before the effect of foreign currency translation gains or losses.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share in the second quarter was $0.48 an increase of 54.8% compared to $0.31 in the second quarter of 2011.
Non-GAAP EPS benefited from strong revenue growth certain expense timing delays a lower tax rate and the adjustments for acquisition-related costs.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Membership fees receivable were $111.5 million at June 30 2012 compared to $154.3 million at December 31 2011.
Average days sales outstanding were 69 days for the second quarter consistent with historical seasonal ranges.
Deferred revenues decreased seasonally at June 30 2012 and the current portion was $293.9 million which includes $3.2 million from Valtera and Baumgartner.
As compared to the prior year deferred revenues increased by 13% due to improved year-over-year bookings.
This outcome continues to bode well as a leading indicator of near-term revenue growth.
Year-to-date cash flows from operations were $83.5 million for the first half of 2012 an increase of 53.8% over the first half of 2011 driven largely by improved business performance and cash tax benefits from the sale of toolbox.com.
Next I'll discuss our outlook.
The following comments are intended to fall under the Safe Harbor provisions outlined at the beginning of the call and are based on preliminary assumptions which are subject to change over time.
Please turn to Slide 6.
Based on our progress to date we remain on track to achieve our prior 2012 revenue outlook and thus we continue to anticipate full year revenues of $535 million to $555 million.
While we expect second half revenues to increase as compared to the prior year the growth rates may be lower given the revenue recognition benefits realized in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our second quarter expenses were influenced by all of the factors we anticipated on our last earnings call including a full quarter of Valtera increased headcount the impact of annual merit and payroll tax increases and the seasonal ramp in annual meetings and expenses.
As discussed earlier our commentary in May also allowed for the possibility that a portion of what we have classified as acquisition-related costs would instead have been shown as general and administrative expense had we not signed the SHL purchase agreement.
In addition as the SHL transaction came into focus we deferred certain product development activities that we plan to resume in the second half of the year.
And given our positive momentum exiting the first half we now also plan to further increase hiring in our sales channels and accelerate the pace of marketing investments to strengthen our positioning heading into 2013.
Accordingly having mast our revenue expectations against both our spending to date and our plans for the remainder of the year we are raising our outlook for adjusted EBITDA margin to 24% to 25% and for non-GAAP diluted earnings per share to a range of $1.90 to $2.05.
In 2012 we now anticipate depreciation and amortization to range from $21 million to $23 million an effective tax rate of approximately 41% not including the effect of foreign currency translation and capital expenditures of $12 million to $15 million.
Before handing the call over to Tom for the strategic update please turn to Slide 7 and let me take just one more minute to discuss our approach to incorporating SHL acquisition into our 2012 outlook.
As we have previously disclosed we expect to close the SHL acquisition on or about August 2 which of course is in 2 days.
While we will move rapidly to coordinate operations of these 2 entities this transaction also requires that we complete a number of activities on the accounting side that will take some time.
We have highlighted the biggest items in the center of the page including the reconciliation of U.K.
GAAP to U.S.
GAAP presentations the finalization of purchase price accounting the completion of a detailed effective tax rate analysis and the preparation of pro forma financial statements.
We anticipate that these tasks will not be completed until October and accordingly we will not be in a position to properly update our 2012 outlook until we report our third quarter results.
For now we continue to refer you to the SHL financial information we presented in connection with our July 2 announcement as it provides a useful perspective on our annualized historical revenue and expense run rates.
At the time we update our 2012 outlook to reflect SHL we will incorporate our most current expectations for the business and include any appropriate adjustments to revenue and expense that results from the analytical activities I have just discussed.
That's it for the financial summary.
Please turn to Slide 8 and I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Rich and good morning.
As Rich previously stated we're pleased with our performance in the second quarter of 2012.
Against the backdrop of a tricky economic environment worldwide we have delivered a solid quarter that sets us up for a strong second half of the year.
In Q2 both revenues and Contract Value enjoyed double-digit growth.
In particular these solid bookings in Q2 were driven primarily by strong performance in North America and the Asia-Pacific regions.
However we were not immune to the challenging economic conditions in EMEA where we experienced a slight decline in bookings relative to last year.
While we are pleased with our performance year-to-date we see plenty of opportunities to keep raising our impact on member companies and drive great financial outcomes.
Reflecting on the quarter I want to share with you some of the sentiment that we are hearing from our members as we move into the back half of 2012.
A quick scan of the headlines over the past few weeks tells you all you need to know about the operating environment.
We're seeing weak to negative macro growth in a number of core developed markets coupled with moderating growth in key emerging markets and a fresh new wave of corporate scandals and risk management missteps is calling attention to the dangers inherent in running a large company today.
It's important to note that these short-term difficulties don't change the long-term trends that shape corporate performance nor do they reduce members need for help.
If anything as evidenced in our performance this is an economy that demands microsurgery daily as companies work to optimize the performance of their people bring profit and growth from challenging markets and manage of a widening array of complex risks.
In short it's just the sort of environment where we can be of the greatest help to our members.
It's is now clear that the changes we made over the past several years have helped our teams more effectively engage members wrestling with a difficult economic outlook.
As we have discussed in past quarters our primary growth opportunities come from 3 sources.
The first is expanding relationships with our now 5 900 existing customers; our second growth driver is adding new customers from a pool of more than 14 000 identified target companies; and our third growth driver is introducing highly relevant high impact new product and services that link great content directly to key member decisions and work.
In order to drive growth in these 3 areas we have established 4 strategic long-term priorities which are listed on Slide 8: Creating must-have data and insights; building brand strength through member impact; globalizing the business; and delivering innovative products and services.
I'll spend a few minutes providing highlights on our second quarter accomplishments in each of these areas.
Please turn to Slide 9 and we'll start with the first of these 4 priorities.
Creating must-have data and insights.
A perpetual goal for us is to provide uniquely valuable insight into corporate performance.
This insight built upon exhaustive research compelling data and thoughtful analysis becomes the fuel for great products and high impact conversations.
Ultimately we enable members to make critical decisions with confidence in a timely well-informed manner.
I'd like to share one recent example of a key insight highlighted by our legal and governance practice.
Rapid and frequent change is an inherent fact of corporate life but we've seen the pace of corporate reorganizations accelerate radically over the past couple of years.
And now we are seeing the effects on the compliance and the control environment at large companies.
Frequent organization compensation or role changes result in declining employee engagements increasing business misconduct and over the long term diminishing shareholder returns.
On the left of Slide 9 you can see data from our compliance and ethics leadership council showing the link between frequent organizational change and higher levels of misconduct.
Given the cost of misconduct the payoff for intervening effectively is significant.
In fact companies that craft effective reorg strategies can improve employee perceptions of integrity by 40% and reduce observed misconduct by almost 2/3.
To the right you can see strategies that the team documented for reducing risk levels ultimately creating a rich repository of best practices and tools under each of these strategies.
These insights powered tools that help our members manage organizational change more effectively and drive quickly to great business outcomes.
Please turn to Slide 10 for our next priority.
As we've discussed in the past we expand brand awareness through the delivery of compelling content and outstanding service not frequency promotion.
The growing network of members benefiting from the valuable insights rich data and powerful tools provides the greatest opportunity to drive loyalty and subsequently brand strength.
Our continued ability to stake out compelling thought leadership on topics of critical concern to member executives has driven continued media coverage in key high-end publications.
As you can see to the left on Slide 10 our work anchors the current HPR cover section on sales performance.
Placements like this showcase the value and authority of CEB's insight and drive recognition of our brand and demand for our products.
Along with the core promise of creating uniquely valuable resources and ensuring that they are tightly linked to high-value decisions we see an opportunity to grow our business faster by continuing to raise our profile and effectively articulate the impact of what we do.
We are making a series of investments this year to galvanize the company around the core CEB brand and ensure the prospects and members around the world are aware of the full breadth of what we do and the track record of impact that our teams have generated.
In the months ahead we will introduce a new description and positioning that will more fully represent the expanding capabilities of our company.
To the right on this page you see a snapshot of our new logo which will be rolled out as part of this larger branding process in the months to come.
The most visible change from your vantage point will be on August 13 when we are scheduled to officially change our NYSE ticker symbol to CEB.
We are excited to have our financial brand tightly linked to what our customers already call us.
Next please turn to Slide 11 to discuss our third priority.
Globalizing the business.
Deeper penetration of global markets is vital to our business for 2 reasons.
First and most obviously it powers growth.
Of the 1 500 or so large companies that have yet to source a single product or solution from us more than 1/2 are outside North America and each one represents a near-term revenue opportunity and a long-term attractive platform for cross sell.
We've continued to invest in strong teams on the ground in key markets and to complement these with investments in local events and media strategies.
Second and equally important being global ensures that we bring ideas and data that reflect the global reality of our members who hire source and sell globally.
Senior executives from Cincinnati to Chongqing see our operations and opportunities as global and expect that we engage their peers globally to support them.
Let me give you 2 quick examples of great work made better by our powerful truly global network.
First to the left as you'd expect the senior finance teams we support are looking for insights on how to manage the panoply of potentional outcomes from the Eurozone crisis.
The team and our flagship finance leadership council product worked to understand our deepest -- worked to combine our deep expertise in scenario planning and continued management with perspectives from member executives close to policy makers in the EU.
The result was a set of insights and contingency planning tools that armed finance teams to safeguard their enterprise no matter how the next several years play out.
Let me share a second example.
If you browse the business section in an airport bookstore or on Amazon you've probably seen the tremendous reception that our book The Challenger Sale has received.
The book summarized our vast data sets on the performance of sales organizations and salespeople and is a literal roadmap to growth in difficult markets.
As you might expect our member and prospect base has been particularly eager to understand how these findings apply to the complex and growing markets of China and southeast Asia.
Just this week we've staged working sessions in the region with dozens of sales leaders that help them work to roll out the findings across cultures and markets.
The insights gained not only helped companies headquartered in Singapore and Shenzhen but also their peers running global sales organizations in Charlotte or Hamburg.
Please turn to Slide 12 for our final operating priority.
Delivering innovative products and services.
Before discussing our recent announcement on SHL let me briefly comment on the great results we're seeing from 2 of our recent product launches.
The 2 lunches we have discussed so far this year have ramped nicely generating both solid growth and real member impact.
The IT Roadmap Builder product which we demoed as part of Investor Day is the first formal product launch on our visualization technology platform.
This product is rapidly becoming the repository for the key planning choices of an increasing share of the world's largest IT organizations and we're seeing great growth in customer feedback.
The growth of this platform is not only good news from a revenue standpoint but also gives us a robust new data set to help our members plan and benchmark.
Likewise we are continuing to see strong results from the CEB Valtera line of business which blends the employee engagement analysis capabilities from our CELC Genesee business with a great team and capabilities from Valtera.
Beyond giving us the ability to help companies identify and act on key productivity and cultural issues across the enterprise we are also working to leverage Valtera's great resources and tools around leadership assessment and development into a shared vision and platform that can be leveraged across the business.
The largest step we've taken to bring powerful new capabilities to market is to our pending acquisition of SHL which will result in our being the global leader in supplying the data tools and insights necessary to measure and manage talent.
As we look at Slide 12 let me spend a minute updating you on the process and then share a bit more about the huge opportunity we see from combining our capabilities.
As you may have seen we were granted early termination of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust review process.
We've also received ratings on the company on our new credit facility from S&amp;P and Moody's facilitating the creation of a strong bank group.
We've had a joint team from both companies working to identify key leverage points in the integration process so we can get off to a fast start right after our targeted close date of August 2.
Finally I've had the chance to visit live or by phone with the SHL team around the world.
As we have gotten even deeper into the SHL business our excitement about the potential of this combination has only increased.
We see 2 major categories of opportunity which we have illustrated on Slide 13.
Across the top you see our 5 target end markets inside the large company from HR to IT.
The first and most obvious focus of opportunity is to the left of HR highlighted in orange.
HR was the home of our first large corporate product and as a result is our biggest end market.
We have a large loyal network of CHROs heads of LND talent management and recruiting.
Many of these HR teams are already active users of SHL assessments and talent analytics but many are also not yet customers or don't use the solutions as broadly as they should.
The biggest opportunity is to ensure that we leverage our install base particularly in North America to broaden the penetration of SHL services.
Likewise outside of North America and particularly in key emerging growth markets we see the inverse opportunity.
SHL's strong relationships can be a platform for more rapid expansion of our strongest products.
The less obvious but equally powerful opportunity for impact as illustrated by the blue horizontal stripe as you all know talent is not an issue for the CHRO exclusively.
In fact each of our key buying centers has a range of important talent issues that they wrestle with.
We see an equally exciting opportunity to link SHL tools to the specific outcomes that matter for each of these executives an objective greatly enabled by our deep processing outcomes data in each domain.
In doing this we can create both richer data sets for our existing products and whole new solutions to be sold into other end markets.
Imagine how powerful a talent management or assessment tool built specifically around the needs of a sales executive head of apps development or an R&amp;D head like me.
Given the huge success of our Leadership Academies business we see that executives outside of HR are eager to purchase and use solutions that help them manage people and productivity.
Let me make the last 2 points about integration priority.
The first reflects the fact that even prior to the combination both of these businesses have solid growth and profitability profiles.
And you can see the momentum that we are enjoying in CEB's 1H results.
An important priority for the integration will be to ensure that we seize new opportunities in ways that complement rather than distract from the great work that our teams are already doing globally.
Job one of the integration is to maintain the momentum that both businesses currently enjoy.
Secondly one insight from our pre-closed integration planning activities is that SHL will bring nearly 1 000 highly motivated and superbly capable employees to our organization.
As I've mentioned in our previous announcement we had known key members of their leadership team for a while and had always been impressed by their vision and accomplishments.
With a fuller view of the organization we now have a more complete view of the quality and energy of the SHL employees globally.
We're excited to close the transaction and delighted to welcome them to CEB.
On that topic let me close with a note about my colleagues globally.
As our results indicate we made great progress against both our operating and strategic objectives in the first half of 2012.
All of this against the backdrop of a less than perfect global operating environment our progress is a powerful testament to the energy and impact of our teams all over the world.
I'm grateful for their efforts pleased with the progress we've made and even more excited by the opportunities ahead most importantly I'm proud to have such great colleagues.
Thanks for dialing in and we'll take your questions now.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just one housekeeping one.
First what was the revenue recognition benefit in the second quarter? It was basically a push so there was a net neutral impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just talk maybe -- can you talk about how Europe progressed through the quarter or how it is today versus maybe 3 months ago? And then is there any differences in your -- in the growth of the functional areas of the 5 functional areas you sell into? Is there any differences in growth between the 2? I would guess that technology right now is one of your better growth areas.
Let me do the second one first which is -- actually the 5 functional areas are all moving along at the same rate they're all seeing good results in end market.
So all the teams were on top of the key issues that matter and frankly all the executives are sitting on a pretty robust pile of challenges for us to get after.
So they're all very tightly aligned in terms of their growth rate.
In EMEA I think our story is pretty consistent with what you've been hearing will be hearing from other companies.
On balance companies are more conservative with budgets as they work to navigate the macro uncertainty.
We saw a huge change across the quarter the story was pretty broadly similar from Q1.
In our business that tends to be reflected more in new sales and cross-sells than in renewals.
On balance we find it harder to earn our way into new companies and budgets than to remain connected to budgets and work that we're already supporting.
So the net-net of reasonably consistent renewals and lower cross-sells in new sales result in a book of business that is slightly down in bookings for the quarter.
Yes we still think this environment bodes well for our long-term opportunity that we even slightly expanded our team with an eye on competing for more budget dollars as people trade into effective low-cost solutions.
And we know that's an important market for us over the long term so I have every confidence that our team over there will find ways to grow and thrive as the year unfolds.
Research Division</strong> If I could just sneak one more.
So if Europe slowed a little bit from the last quarter then obviously the U.S.
accelerated in a more uncertain economic environment.
Can you pick out any reasons that would be? It seems a little -- I'm a little surprised you'd accelerate in an uncertain economy in the U.S.
I think we're pleased with the performance in the U.S.
and Asia Pacific.
And we think in this environment our resources match up very well against the challenges people have and our teams are doing a great job finding ways to make sure we're connecting in conversations and through technology with those problems they've got and giving them real immediate returns on their investments with us.
And I have every confidence the Europe team as it works its way through this environment will find similar opportunities to connect with member problems and drive great outcomes.
And we'll take our next question from Gary Bisbee with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at your commentary from a quarter ago you indicated margins would likely be down.
I think you even used the word sharply but maybe I just wrote that down in my notes a quarter ago relative to Q1 and that really didn't happen.
What was better from the cost side this quarter? Or was it just that the revenue was better and the cost were closer in line with your target? Yes I'd say there was certainly an impact on both sides.
I think we definitely saw although it's in line with our expectations on the margin we saw revenue come in a little stronger than we were anticipating as we came into the second quarter.
On the expense side most of the things we anticipated did actually come through and there is a pretty significant sequential increase in expenses from the first and second quarter.
I would say the 2 things that did turn out a little differently one was in our thought pattern we knew that we would be working on the acquisition with SHL but we did not know whether or not it would be successful.
And so we built in a little bit of buffer to record some expenses in case that didn't actually come through and then be something we could adjust out.
And then the second is as the acquisition came into a clear focus we put some activities on the product development side on hold temporarily to both complete the acquisition and then also resume them with a clear focus on where we were going to head post acquisition.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of the year-over-year reacceleration in a bunch of the metrics whether it's Contract Value or the wallet retention getting better deferred revenue getting better should we think of that that the business actually gains some momentum? Or is there -- was there -- it looks like there was somewhat easier comp.
Is that also part of it or is it fair to say that you feel like the business did gain momentum despite the macro? Yes I mean I'd say it's all of the above.
I mean clearly the comp was a little easier this year.
I mean we were pretty upfront last year about how we got off to a slow start in the second quarter of 2011 that did not occur this year.
We had great solid performance all the way through the quarter.
But I think we did see some improvement in momentum especially as we've talked about in North America and Asia-Pacific.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- well I guess 2 more.
The first one how do we think about the pipeline of opportunities for incremental revenue streams like the IT Roadmap or some of the things that are going on with Valtera in some of these other areas? Are these still so early stage that they're not likely to have a big impact over the next 12 to 24 months? Or are we at a place where you're starting to have a bunch of real opportunities to charge incrementally on top of what you're charging for the base subscription? And how do we think about that trending? I think it's safe to say some of the momentum that Rich just pointed to reflects the fact that not only are we doing a great job with our existing product set but we're introducing good new products on a consistent basis.
We've seen real success in a few different areas IT Roadmap Builder is one.
We've mentioned challenger sale and the resulting resources in our sales area where we've got tremendous market traction right now as people are competing in tough markets and looking for any advantage they can to shift share.
Again as I said that's a roadmap to growth in an environment where there are very few roadmaps to growth.
So we're seeing great traction there.
But across the board I think we believe new products are a vital part of the company's future and we're very excited both about the existing pipeline and about how much richer that pipeline looks with the combined opportunities of CEB the addition of Valtera and now the addition of SHL.
Pretty rich set of resources for us to package up and bring to market in a variety of compelling new ways.
Research Division</strong> And then that just leads to my last question which is on SHL I realize that it's early in your store consider the numbers.
Anything you can give us in terms of a better estimate on amortization or what the tax rate would be or even just the sense of what the seasonality of the revenue and cost in margins are relative to your core business? Yes Gary unfortunately there's not much we are prepared to say at this point in terms of kind of model building guidance other than what we've provided in the July 2 call.
On seasonality I will say that they are a less seasonal business than we are.
They tend to be -- their business tends to be more evenly distributed through the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe let me take one more.
It seems to me like the transaction would likely be quite a bit more accretive to free cash flow than earnings.
And it seems like it should have maybe not as strong as yours but a somewhat negative working capital cycle 2/3 of it is subscription relatively low CapEx.
Is all of that a fair statement? I think one of the reasons that we found the acquisition attractive was that it shared a lot of the same economic characteristics of our business.
So yes I think that's a fair statement.
And we'll take our next question from Tim McHugh with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I guess just one more question on SHL.
Can you talk about -- you mentioned Europe was weaker for you and they obviously have a lot more exposure to Europe.
I know you can't give us a lot of details but has the slowdown you've seen in Europe impacted the numbers for SHL such that we should keep that in mind relative to kind of the trailing numbers you gave us before? Tim we are -- we don't have anything new on that from when we said when we announced the acquisition has been growing slightly higher rate than us.
And that as a look back that reflected both the European performance and they're also more broadly exposed in Asia than we are.
So I think netting out those factors and just the urgency of the resources they have give a great platform for growing the business going forward.
And obviously we've got a footprint in North America that can help them accelerate here.
So on balance they're strong in a number of important markets where we're not strong.
And their exposure -- the combined companies exposure to Europe is -- skews north it skews to markets that are considerably less affected by some of the unfolding dramas you see in key sovereign nations.
Research Division</strong> But it hasn't slowed or changed significantly because of what you've just seen even in the last 3 to 6 months.
That's fair right? Yes.
I mean Tim look I think we're not giving any kind of forward guidance or incremental financial information on SHL at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In the pricing you talked last quarter about pricing this year being towards the lower end of the ranges.
Is that -- of your historical ranges is that still the case or have you seen any movement in that? Yes it's still the same story from where we were in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned accelerating some of the sales force or sales and marketing investments into the second half of this year.
Can you talk about -- give us a rough sense of maybe what your sales force is growing at and what you -- what that acceleration might mean in terms of sales force growth rate.
Yes I mean I think the sales force continues to grow roughly in line with revenue maybe a little bit lighter year-to-date.
I think that we do see an opportunity in pockets to provide some incremental resources to help set up both helpful performance in Q4 as well as more importantly get off to a fast start in 2013.
I can generally assure you that it's availability of great talent that drives our growth of the sales force more than someone sitting in Rich's office saying please please there's one more great sales person I'd love to hire.
Then Rich saying no.
We're active acquirers of great sales talent.
As a Rich said that tends to be in line with revenue but we're also opportunistic to add talent when we see it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then one more if I could slip in.
It's just currently you changed the way you price your contracts this year as currency rates have moved.
Did that have an impact on the numbers for this year or it's more a factor we'll have to keep in mind for next year? Yes I think it's still early days there.
There's not a lot of Contract Value that's multicurrency at this point.
So that wasn't a big influencer of foreign currency translation cost.
And we'll take our next question from Dan Leeben with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> First Rich I know you don't want to get into detail but if you could just at a high-level kind of directionally walk us through the differences between U.K.
and U.S.
GAAP and some impact that would have on the numbers when we're looking at the acquisition on a trailing basis.
Yes.
It's not appropriate for me to go into any level of detail at this stage because we're still working through the analysis.
Clearly among the things that we're looking at are revenue recognition policies and how those could change.
We're also looking at how certain expenses get recognized and the timing of those.
So there are various elements there could be some puts some takes.
There's clearly as we always do with purchase price accounting there are important outcomes that need to be determined in terms of how much deferred revenue gets brought forward onto the new balance sheet and also how you allocate intangibles versus goodwill which obviously influences amortization.
So I'm just not in a position at this point to provide any meaningful commentary beyond that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when we look forward to the third quarter call the impact on the metrics Contract Value Wallet retention et cetera.
Are those going to be fully baked in for SHL and if so any kind of the differences in Wallet retention metrics at SHL versus CEB? Yes I mean I think we're still looking at that and there's still some kind of policy definition to be finalized.
Suffice it to say that we'll provide transparency to help you understand what the impact of any SHL calculations are on those metrics.
And broadly speaking Dan we've done look backs at their business there and in -- for a Wallet retention rate there's still work to do.
When we inferred it it's pretty attractive.
It compares favorably with ours and we think that's a good signal of the recurring nature of their revenue but also the fact that they're tethered pretty tightly to the member work that they support.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one last for me.
Just the uptick in Wallet retention more favorable for retention or cross sell? Which was the bigger driver in that? I think it's safe to say that the larger story was actually by region where in North America and APAC they all look pretty good.
And in EMEA as we said on balance it's easier to renew a contract as to go work your way into a new budget or new company.
So the storyline tended to be more a regional story than a drivers of growth story.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> The net new member additions were pretty strong this quarter.
I know you said mid-market is stronger than traditional.
I'm just wondering given the bad economic backdrop how are you continuing to add new logos and is there anything to cull out there? I think our business begins and ends with having great resources that people need to make decisions on problems they see sitting on their desks right then and they're not looking -- in this environment people aren't looking for something they hope to use next year to solve a problem that's going to arrive in 3 years.
So it begins with really compelling resources that hit challengers they're looking at right now and I think in all of our domains we put together a really solid set of capabilities that support people.
And then we need great people to help prospects understand how fast the payback will be on an investment with us.
So we've made investments to build out great teams in both large corp and middle market great teams of people focused on not only enriching the relationships we've got but going and securing great new logos in both markets.
And you're seeing those investments and the great leadership of teams pay off there.
So both sides of that equation look pretty good to us right now and we're pleased to see the investments we've made paying off.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just to clarify on an earlier comment with Contract Value down in Europe inclusive of Baumgartner on a year-over-year basis? What we said was that bookings was down modestly on a year-over-year basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then any thoughts as to dividend growth versus the debt repayment last year? I think you increased annualized dividend by $0.10 but now you have another potential use of cash and how you're thinking about the trade off? Sure.
No I think we've articulated that we're going to stay true to the financial priorities that we've been -- that we've laid out there for some time.
We were very firm in our commitment to maintain our dividend growth policy and you should expect us to continue down that path.
And we'll take our next question from Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I apologize I had to jump off in the middle if you've addressed this beforehand.
But the bookings look to me to be up 23.6% year-over-year and using the calculation the change in deferred revenue on the balance sheet can you give us a view as to how much of the lift in bookings came from acquisitions and how much was organic? Well what we've given you was Contract Value for the quarter the ending Contract Value about $6.4 million of that is from Valtera and Baumgartner.
So you can use that as a proxy for relative contribution.
But it was primarily organic.
It's largely an organic story obviously.
But going forward we like those platforms and as we continue to integrate them I think you'll see their impact.
But the quarter was organic.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you talk about the margin lift from some of the delayed costs and you talked about investing in some of the products in the second half can you just give us a little bit more detail on things that you're thinking about and how that -- quantify how much that impacted this quarter and how much of it is really going to shift into next quarter? In other words is this just strictly a timing item? Yes.
If you look at it several of our planned launches for the year featured either an employee analysis component or an assessment feature or something that helped executives around the executive suite choose and deploy talent.
So as you can imagine as the SHL deal got closer we thought it wise to hold off so we didn't actually duplicate the investments with things they might already have underway.
So with the close imminent and a much clearer view of the 2 organizations' resources you can expect to see us push ahead in Q3 and catch up on a fair bit of that planned investment.
I think our guidance for the year anticipates that not all of it will be squeezed into this year but we'll catch up on a fair bit and we'll pull forward some resources.
So we've got some great capacity in market to keep the momentum going.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess another way to ask this question is if absent the timing of those investments and then you guys actually removing the expenses the M&amp;A expenses from the SHL deal that obviously you guys would not have done had the deal not closed would your guidance have been going up for the margins or not? I would say it might have gone up a little bit or at a minimum we would have been towards the higher end of our range.
Some portion of it was just to beat on revenue so that obviously -- you get that and you keep it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay so absent some of that stuff you guys would have been at the higher end of the range or maybe a beat a little bit.
I think that's fair.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On a go-forward basis like when you guys think about year-over-year when we come to next year and you're normally thinking about a 25 basis point on average improvement are we going to start thinking about that maybe we should think about a decline because you had an usually high year or how should we think about that? I think we'll have to incorporate the fact that SHL is also a higher-margin business than ours historically into a broader view of margin structure.
So I think as a matter of strategy these are businesses that inherently have some scalability built in.
And so that balancing act between reaping the returns of scaling as we grow and making the right investments for the future still tends to be there.
There's nothing new in the overall economic profile of the business that allows us to scale across time and we're committed to that.
But I think we'll have to remodel out how the company looks as the 2 margin structures come together.
But there's no inherent change to the economic leverage in the model.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So absent SHL given what happened this year because you're giving guidance.
But without SHL would I normally expect the margins to follow what you're expecting that they would trend up? Or would I just say hey you had some stuff that went on and therefore they would be flat? I would say we were still comfortable with our 25 basis point on average long-term margin guidance.
So with the contacts obviously we have to reevaluate that every year based on the specifics of what we're seeing in that year to come.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just in terms of how you guys are thinking about Europe internally are you expecting some kind of improvement? Obviously you saw some shrinkage and again I apologize if this was asked before but are you expecting any lift whatsoever from Europe? Or is it really expected to be a continued drag through the end of the year? I think it's hard to believe that Europe at this point will contribute to the overall growth rate.
If you look at our bookings growth that was exclusively a North America and APAC story.
That said I have a lot of confidence that the team on the ground which made some investments is going to step up their growth rate across the year and contribute to a good overall corporate outcome.
But I think on balance they'll be under the corporate average rather than driving it up.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So are you continued shrinkage in Europe or are you expecting more flattish year-over-year in the second half of the year? I don't think anybody at the company running anything anywhere expects shrinkage in their business.
We see opportunities to grow we see -- we think we've resourced the company well.
And we think there's some evidence that in this environment even the U.S.
and APAC which are markets with their own sets of challenges we're enable to connect what we do to real problems on members' desks.
And I think the team in Europe feels exactly the same way.
We'll go next to David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick follow-up to make sure I get these numbers right.
Organic revenue growth last quarter was 11% and this quarter you had $5 million which makes it 11%.
So steady organic revenue growth in both first and second quarters.
Are those the right numbers? Yes we had $5 million of inorganic revenue in the second quarter.
And we'll go next to Sam Hoffman with Nomura.
I just have a question about -- if you could give a little bit color on what's going on in the ground in Europe in terms of are you generating pent-up demands for the products which because the second quarter there was particularly [indiscernible] at some point could release into sales when the market environment improves.
And then also in other regions even though they did exceptionally well in the quarter might there be even some clients who are hesitant to buy who might then decide to kind of move into revenue over the course of the rest of the year and going forward? I think it's probably -- I think the #1 reason our sales teams don't get a sale is they tend to hear not now and that not now can have a variety of reasons.
It can be I'm new in my job I'm retiring we're reorganizing.
And so at any given point in time we usually have a very healthy set of conversations that even if they haven't closed we're still an active cultivation mode on.
I think that's true for Europe and some of those will certainly break across the rest of the year and some may not break until second quarter next year.
And I think the team feels a lot of energy around pulling those decisions forward and creating a reason for someone to buy right now.
I think outside of Europe the economy cuts 2 ways.
On one side it is a difficult operating environment and some people probably defer some budget decisions.
On the other hand our product is pretty cheap and if it's a difficult operating environment and you're looking around for things to help you get your job done we're a lot cheaper than an FTE we're a lot cheaper than a lot of the professional services alternatives.
So people may be -- as people trade at the bottom of the pipeline people may be trading it for more expensive solutions.
So it's hard to make that call base on the results we've seen that we're not monetizing enough of pent-up demand elsewhere.
Europe we certainly think we're building a good solid pipeline of conversation that if we work hard we think we can monetize some this year and we think some may spill over into next year and the years to go.
But it's all a great asset for the company.
Terrific.
And then just also can you help us on currency.
I think you had said in the past that you're changing your billing to be in foreign currency at some point or maybe it's already happened.
And if that's the case than if the billing is in euros and the euro is down does that mean that you raise price more to kind of compensate for that? Or how should we think about the effect of currency on revenue going forward in the core business as well as in SHL? And I guess the effect on revenue and expenses as long as we're talking about it.
Sure.
As far as I'm -- I'm not just going to comment on the CEB piece only at this stage.
As far as the multicurrency billing as I mentioned before that's still a relatively new capability and we haven't really ramped up to a material level in terms of overall take-up on that.
We would expect that will grow through this year and into next year and become more of a factor.
As far as the -- how the impact on pricing I mean I think part of the notion here with operating multicurrency billing is that we can remove some of the volatility that customers would otherwise have experienced in their pricing from year-to-year.
And as a result we think that will help with customer satisfaction retention and selling efforts over time.
So we think -- that's really our philosophy is to try to maintain the same discipline in that currency that we maintain here in the U.S.
So in the event that the euro continues to decline would you be able to kind of make up for that somehow by maybe cutting into the middle maybe raising price somewhat more? Because you've kind of been doing that all along.
So is there any way that you can make up for that if the euro declines? Well I mean certainly there are hedging approaches that could be implemented over time.
If we get more of our cost base in euro-denominated locations that would provide a partial offset as well.
And then of course if there are dramatic changes in currencies then we would have to revisit our pricing approach if conditions warrant.
Yes.
In fact with modest declines in the currency move you to a different place in the demand curve too.
So you'd expect one way you might make up some of the volume is just -- might make up some of the opportunity is just higher volumes off that price base.
So one of the things we're going to do is have more stable end market pricing and that gives us opportunities to grow the business in more ways.
Okay.
And then just one clarification I'm not sure I have it right in my notes.
But you had guided for $5 million in expenses.
I just wasn't clear if that was intended to be kind of actually reported in 2013 or I could achieve across 2013.
So you'd kind of be at the full run rate of the $5 million like in 2014.
What did you mean by when you said $5 million of expenses in terms of when it actually hits the bottom line? As we talked about when we talk about the SHL integration both businesses are performing at a very healthy level both in terms of revenue growth and margin right now.
So we're going to be very careful not to do anything that takes apart the well-performing watch to see what's inside.
So we expect getting to the full run rate of cost savings will probably be a full year activity by the time we carefully integrate the right activities and find the purchasing synergies.
And we don't want to disrupt the good momentum that both businesses have because the leverage of our revenue synergy here is substantial relative to the cost synergy.
Okay so the $5 million will be kind of the run rate of that by like the fourth quarter of next year? Yes.
Yes I think fourth quarter next year is a relatively accurate estimate of what it will take to make sure we do it without disrupting any other important work.
That's all the time we have for questions today.
I'd like to turn the conference back to Mr.
Monahan for any closing remarks.
Thanks everyone for calling in or logging in this morning.
Rich and I will be out on the road across August and September and we look forward to checking in with you as we hit various cities around the world.
Thanks so much.
Thank you everyone.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning welcome to the Corporate Executive Board's Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through November 12 by dialing (719) 457-0820.
The replay passcode is 8546530.
The replay will also be available beginning later today and through November 12 at the company's website and at www.earnings.com.
To the extent any non-GAAP financial measure is discussed in today's call you will also find a reconciliation of that measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated according to GAAP by going to the company's website and following the Investors link to yesterday's news release -- or this morning's news release excuse me.
You will also find a PDF of the supporting materials that the company will use in its prepared remarks this morning by going to the Investors page and following the link to the Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Please review the second page of these materials which includes important information about forward-looking information included in the presentation.
This conference call may also contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements among others regarding the Corporate Executive Board's expected quarterly and annual financial performance for fiscal 2012 or beyond.
For this purpose any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing discussions of forecasts estimates targets plans beliefs expectations and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
You're hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by important factors among others set forth in the Corporate Executive Board's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its third quarter news release.
Consequently actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the conference over to the company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Tom Monahan.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Scott.
Good morning and thanks for calling in and/or logging into the CEB Q3 2012 conference call.
Before I begin my remarks let me say a brief note of thanks to everyone who accommodated our moving the timing of this call.
We appreciate the flexibility in light of the weather events this week.
Let us also send best wishes to our colleagues on this call or not of this call who have been significantly affected by the weather events.
Let me layout a roadmap for how we'll spend our time together.
First I'll provide a quick summary of the financials.
Then I'll walk through our core strategic priorities and our longer-term financial goals.
I'll then hand off to Rich who will walk through the financials in a bit more detail.
It was a very busy quarter at CEB.
I'm proud of how our teams continued to execute well in a very complex global environment even as we announced and closed a significant transaction.
We emerged from the quarter with great momentum in our largest markets an even stronger competitive platform and real clarity about where we need to target our energies and closed -- to close the year strong and set up a great 2013.
Revenue for the quarter was $164.7 million up 35.5% from this quarter last year.
Adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was 29.1% up from 23.5% last year at this time.
Non-GAAP EPS is $0.78 on the quarter up from $0.47 last year at this time.
For the full year-to-date revenue was up 21.6% and non-GAAP EPS is $1.85 through 3 quarters an increase of 50%.
At the highest level the legacy CEB products are tracking to deliver growth and profit a little ahead of our expectations and our SHL products are tracking below their historical averages due to some transition issues and a few difficult markets.
Let me add some color to the financial data.
Please turn to Page 3.
The quarter continued to be a tale of 3 regions 2 with considerable strength and one with some shorter term growth challenges.
North America both across the CEB businesses and our new SHL business continued to see very healthy rates of organic growth.
The APAC area broadly was a source of overall strength.
Even though economic conditions are less than stellar across these regions our teams generally did a great job linking our resources to the most important drivers of business value in our member P&amp;Ls and earned the right to grow.
Growing in Europe continued to be very difficult.
Given SHL's broader exposure to Europe this affected the overall growth of this business more significantly which you saw in the 8-K and continued into the quarter.
Obviously we were aware of this exposure and incorporated it into our valuation of the business.
At this point a couple of their markets are tracking below our original projections for '12 but we have a lot of confidence that our go-forward plans for the business will yield solid growth across 2013.
Overall SHL's growth for the year will fall below their historical trend.
While market mix will play a role I think it's also say safe to say that SHL's growth was affected by distraction factors from the acquisition.
Their senior-most management team spent much of Q2 working on the sale and much of Q3 working on the integration in preparing for a few senior management shifts.
Given the solid wallet retention numbers that we're seeing in the business and huge opportunity in front of us we believe that our ramp back to normal growth ranges is largely within our control but will take several quarters to move through the transition cycle.
Overall we couldn't be more excited about the potential of this combination or with the pace at which our teams are working to make this real for customers.
Conversely given our overwhelming North American footprint overall CEB organic growth was quite strong.
The sum of these puts and takes not only places us on track for solid growth and profit in 2012 but anchors our 2013 planning on our now larger portfolio driving it toward the historical 8% to 13% organic growth rate against the backdrop of industry-leading margins.
We'll obviously give you a more concrete picture early in 2013.
The quarter's results underscored the storyline of the year so far.
Considerable strength in number of our major markets globally a major strategic step forward with the acquisition of SHL and a few pockets of weakness most notably in EMEA.
The net result is one of strong organic growth solid margin performance and an unrivaled platform for customer value and growth in the years ahead.
There's much work ahead particularly in realizing the opportunity in the SHL acquisition.
But we have a world-class team making progress every day.
You can turn to page 5.
Our overarching mission is to unlock the potential of organizations and leaders by advancing the science and practice of management.
We believe that doing this will create unparalleled business value for our members and pave the way for strong growth in the years ahead.
We've taken many steps over the last few years to move us closer toward achieving that goal but it is an ever-moving target.
Over the next several years our work is organized against 3 core priorities which you see listed on Page 5.
These 3 priorities will shape how we manage the conclusion of 2012 as well as inform our early planning for setting up a successful 2013.
Let me spend a few minutes highlighting key components from each of these priorities.
Three priorities are leading the analytic transformation of talent management consistently creating distinct business value for members and achieving brand recognition that matches our global impact.
Please turn to Page 6 and I'll spend a little more time on each one.
Leading the analytic transition -- sorry transformation of talent management.
While many companies have long claimed that talent is their greatest competitive asset we've seen a real change underway across the past couple of years.
Leading organizations globally have begun in earnest to manage talent with the same rigor and analytic depth with which they've managed other vital corporate assets.
We've been a key part of this transformation arming them with insights and best practices in our core HR practice and beyond.
They've seen us drive this agenda through our work on topics as varied as employee productivity sales performance and changing IT skills.
And with the acquisition of SHL we are in an unmatched position to take the lead in meeting the growing demand for deeper more predictive and actionable support for leaders in HR and importantly across the executive suite.
Our foremost focus on this front right now is the effective integration of our SHL assets.
To that end let me share an update on our early progress to date.
We started the first phase of our integration planning efforts even before the combination closed in August.
The goal of this space is to enable us to operate as an integrated corporate entity with a clear path to achieving our cost synergy targets.
Leadership and integration teams from both organizations have spent the past 8 weeks creating key touch points and integrating some core processes.
Most recently we've integrated the SHL finance and HR teams with CEB's teams to provide important cross-form resource allocation and talent management capabilities.
We've also put in place a roadmap to the $5 million cost synergy target that we outlined in our initial announcement.
As expected the overwhelming majority of these come from scale purchasing opportunities benefits consolidation fee avoidance and already-announced staff transitions.
We're hard at work putting in plans to capture them and we will have realized the full benefit across the next several quarters.
We've also put in place a great leadership team to operate the business on the CEB platform and to take advantage of key synergy opportunities.
CEO David Lee will be stepping down from his role but will stay on for a period of time as an adviser to me.
David has done a great job positioning these assets for solid growth and importantly cultivating a great leadership team.
I've asked Robert Morgan SHL's Chief Customer Officer to lead the business and join the CEB senior leadership team.
Robert has been a key member of the SHL team for the last several years and has a stellar reputation and an outstanding record of leadership in the industry including heading up the Saratoga Institute and business units Experian and Hudson [ph].
Robert has worked with us in several collaborative efforts in his past lives and we've long admired his strong leadership skills.
We're excited to work with him to bring a now unparalleled set of CEB and SHL research-based management capabilities to bear on the outcomes of global companies.
We're now in the second phase of integration when we will focus on the much larger opportunities that we see from realizing the revenue synergies.
I'm pleased to report that our teams are making faster advances in some of these areas than we had originally anticipated.
Let me share a couple of highlights.
There are 3 main areas of effort: first marrying CEB's deep functional knowledge with SHL's predictive capabilities to create products that link to business value drivers and senior decision makers.
Second leveraging the large CEB North American footprint and strong new sales capabilities to drive SHL's growth here.
And finally levering -- leveraging SHL's strength in key global markets to grow the CEB global footprint.
Given challenges in some key international markets we've prioritized the first 2 for now and have made solid early progress.
Our most important early win was the first joint product launch which we just announced at HR Tech in Chicago.
It's called the CEB Challenger Selection &amp; Assessment offering.
It helps companies select high-performing sales people and key sales managers to drive better productivity and performance.
As you might guess the product links our data on sales performance with SHL's Predictive People Analytics to create a powerful new tool for sale sets.
I'll share a bit more detail on how this launch fits into our broader suite of sales effectiveness solutions in just a few minutes.
We've also put up in place some cross-selling pilots where lead CEB account managers partner with their SHL colleagues to generate opportunities at the largest U.S.
companies.
We're still in a very early part of a limited pilot but have already boosted pipeline value by about $600 000.
Clearly the full realization of these efforts will take time and will shape how we plan and resource for the immediate future.
But our strong early progress on the integration will not significantly inflect our near short-term outcomes but does establish a very solid foundation for accelerated scalable growth in 2013 and beyond.
Please turn to Page 7 for our next priority.
The second strategic priority is consistently creating distinct business value for members.
Since the start of our company we have focused on innovative research and analytic methods and ways of blending insight service and technology to transform our customers' performance.
Our goal has always been to target and improve really important customer outcomes.
This obviously starts with great usage.
We actively track users and usage to make sure that we are connecting our products to the right users and work streams.
But while usage is important we hold ourselves to a higher standard.
We also seek to measure our ability to enable growth increase efficiency and reduce risk.
The strength we are seeing in the business is evidence that our members recognize the business value that we add and we have recently redoubled our efforts to make sure that everything we do every product sales service interaction leads directly to great outcomes for our members.
This begins with clear focus on economic levers that matter and flows through every product and service interaction thereafter.
I'm particularly proud of the recent work we've done to help our members grow in a very difficult economy.
A real focus of ours has been the expansion of our support for member efforts to drive sales which is briefly summarized on this page.
We started with proprietary research and data conducted originally in our subscription products which really resonated with the sales leadership community.
You can see some of the findings to the left of this page.
First and most importantly our customer data indicates the sales process accounts for more than 53% of product value in B2B markets.
And even more importantly a certain type of salesperson is 4.5x more likely to be a high performer than their peers.
You can imagine that for Head of Sales this is powerful insight that you'd be really eager to act on.
To help them do that we developed and launched several service offerings that embed these Challenger insights into practical tools to help sales leaders enhance their effectiveness.
Across the year we put in place a full suite of analysis management and development resources to help companies accelerate growth and realize pricing power.
These have proven incredibly resonant with the marketplace.
Companies seem really hungry for resources that help them profitably gain share in a slow growth environment.
Among the products we now offer to Head's of Sales are our core Sales Executive Council and Sales Leadership Council products.
Together they're among the most widely-used sources of insight and benchmarks about sales effectiveness in the world.
Direct sales rep training and tool sets through our Challenger rep front [ph].
Moving down the right-hand side of Page 7.
The CEB Manager Development Program which trains managers and arms them to drive team performance.
Sales Management Leadership Academy which gives sales managers tools and skills to take on broader leadership roles.
Finally messaging toolkits that guide members through the creation of distinctive collateral and conversion of that collateral into sales messages.
And finally as I mentioned our most recent service launch in the sales effectiveness terrain is the CEB Challenger Selection &amp; Assessment offering.
This is the first product we've launched using SHL's predictive technology.
It arms our customers with the ability to speed time-to-productivity for sales reps and achieve a higher goal attainment through better management of their sales teams.
While I'm pleased with the great financial outcomes that our teams are creating I'm even more excited by the direct impact we are having on customer outcomes.
Let me give you just one example of the feedback that we're hearing from customers quote: "Groundbreaking timely and disciplined research presented in a way that is both intuitive and completely actionable.
It has already impacted our organization by creating customer lends that impacted our sales recruiting hiring training and development.
Since implementing Challenger in partnership with CEB the receptivity and sales results have been terrific." That was Jeff Connor SVP and Chief Growth Officer Aramark Global Food Hospitality and Facility Services talking about our sales effectiveness work.
And this is one of dozens of great documented member value stories we've generate recently across the business.
We believe that a laser-like focus on delivered business value in every sales service and product interaction will continue to power our own growth and success.
Let me take us through our third strategic priority achieving brand recognition that matches our global impact.
Despite our deep relationships with the overwhelming majority of the largest companies in the world we believe that we're an under recognized resource.
Without a sustained reputation for impacted value any attempt we'd make to trumpet our brand will probably backfire.
But given our teams' demonstrated track record of creating great outcomes we see high return building awareness of the CEB brand among key buyers globally.
Ultimately higher-brand awareness facilitates the work of our sales service and advisory teams driving growth increasing productivity and enhancing margins.
And frankly it helps our members too as it speeds their adoption of products and services that improve their business outcomes.
Our incredibly strong research gives us a great platform for engaging key audiences.
We are targeting our efforts here on 4 key levers: First continued exposure on top-tier media outlets.
Here we had another strong quarter with CEB insights on topics ranging from sales performance to eurozone contingency planning highlighted in outlets ranging from The New York Times to The Australian to CNN.
Second partnering to reach new audiences and potential users.
The goal here is to leverage large installed customer bases to introduce our resources to new buyers and importantly to link directly to more workflows.
A couple of recent examples include a marketing alliance with the Young President's Organization which has a common commitment to advancing executive leadership.
This partnership now enables us to share CEB resources insights and tools with YPO's 20 000 members worldwide and greatly increases brand awareness among senior executives in our fast-growing middle market segment.
Another good example is the series of events we've just conducted with the Royal Society for Arts and Manufacture in London engaging senior executives and thought leaders on key topics in ethics and innovation.
SHL too has a long history of partnering effectively to link our products directly to workflows and to leverage other companies' presence to grow our key product areas.
I'd expect us to see us keep this momentum going.
Our third area of focus is hosting large-scale events that showcase the breadth of our offers.
These complements our intimate senior most-only meetings with large summits for senior leaders and HR IT and sales and marketing.
These have proven to be very cost-effective ways of engaging leaders and introducing them to a range of products and services they don't yet buy.
In particular we have just come off a very successful SHL link event in London that brought together HR execs from the U.K.
and beyond to hear about innovations in talent management from their peers and lead SHL and CEB researchers.
We just also wrapped up a sales and marketing summit in Las Vegas that attracted 600 CMOs CSOs and their teams.
Both of these events saw considerable leap in year-on-year attendance and in concrete cross-sell opportunities.
The fourth area of focus and by far the most important is ensuring that our teams speak globally with one voice about CEB and its capabilities to our global customer base.
We believe that our innovative business models provide uniquely authoritative relevant and actionable resources to the markets we serve.
And even in our scale even our best customers leverage only a fraction of what they could.
Arming our people with consistent clear messages about how we helped companies drive performance has been a real focus across the past 6 months.
You've seen visible public examples through our public rebranding and the change of our NYSE ticker symbol but the real work has been at the ground level making sure that each of our people globally can make the full power of our business real for each of our customers.
This work will continue apace as we work to rapidly link the SHL brand into CEB's brand framework as an accelerant to the significant revenue synergies we see ahead.
Before I hand the call over to Rich let me close with a word about our teams globally.
We've got a lot done this quarter announcing and closing a significant transaction while delivering double-digit revenue growth and margin expansion against a complicated macro backdrop.
I'm proud of what we accomplished but even more so I'm energized by the opportunities ahead.
And I'm confident that my 3 500 colleagues around the world are uniquely qualified and uniquely positioned to drive great outcomes for our customers.
Let me turn the call back to Rich for a discussion of our financial results.
Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
I'll use my remarks this morning to accomplish 2 important goals: First we want to help investors unpack our consolidated results to get a clearer picture of our current financial performance and operating trends.
To that end as you've seen in our press release we've modified our non-GAAP measures to better represent our ongoing cash earnings profile.
Second we want to update you on our expectations for the combined CEB-SHL business over the near term -- near to medium term having completed the post-closing activities we discussed on our second quarter call.
We'll tackle this objective by discussing both our updated 2012 outlook and our preliminary views for 2013.
Let's start by turning to Slide 9 to review our key operating metrics for the quarter.
CEB contract value at September 30 was $522.4 million and was up 10.6% compared to the prior year.
This increase was fueled by double-digit firm-wide bookings growth as continued strong performance by our North America and Asia Pacific teams offset a slight drop in year-over-year bookings in the EMEA region.
For SHL full quarter revenue growth was essentially flat on a year-over-year basis as the slower trends experienced in the second quarter continued into the third quarter reflecting both some challenged markets in Europe and the to-be-expected distraction of the sale and integration process.
CEB Wallet retention was 99% at September 30 2012 and remains in the normal range of the high 90s to low 100s.
SHL Wallet retention rate was 101% in the third quarter of 2012 reflecting the high degree of recurring revenues in that part of our business.
Growth in total CEB member institutions extended the gains made in the first half of this year by increasing 8% compared to last year.
Once again this growth was driven mostly by additions in middle market but also due to an increase in the number of large corporate customers.
And finally CEB Contract Value per member institution continued to improve as it grew 2.4% to $87 900.
Please turn to Slide 10.
As you can see our adjusted third quarter financials benefited from both solid organic gains in our CEB segment and the addition of SHL to our results from the August 2 2012 acquisition date.
CEB segment revenues were $139.1 million in the third quarter a 14.4% increase compared to $121.6 million in the third quarter of 2011.
Included in the CEB segment is approximately $4.3 million of inorganic revenue in the quarter from Baumgartner and Valtera.
SHL segment revenues contributed $25.6 million in the third quarter and were net of an $8.4 million impact of the deferred revenue fair value adjustment.
This quarterly revenue adjustment represents the first portion of the total $34 million adjustment to pre-acquisition deferred revenues that resulted from the purchase accounting fair value analysis.
Additional quarterly reductions will continue to be recognized going forward and through 2013.
Moving on to operating expenses.
Cost of services in the third quarter increased by $19.1 million versus the third quarter of 2011.
SHL represents about 70% of this increase.
Other acquired businesses accounted for most of the remaining change with the additional balance coming from headcount and related expenses in the product functions.
Member relations and marketing expense increased by $10.8 million in the third quarter versus the prior year period.
SHL was also the biggest factor here representing about 65% of the change.
Increased sales and marketing staff higher commissions due to the growth of bookings over the past year and the addition of Valtera and Baumgartner also contributed to the increase.
G&amp;A costs in the third quarter were up $4 million compared to the prior year with about 95% of the increase due to SHL.
Acquisition-related costs were $18.6 million in the third quarter which breaks out into $10.7 million of deal-related fees and expenses a $5.1 million non-cash loss on the foreign currency hedge put in place at the announcement of the acquisition and $2.8 million of integration costs.
We continue to expect that we will incur total integration costs related to SHL that will accumulate to $10 million to $15 million through the end of 2013.
Interest income and other was $1.6 million in the third quarter compared to a $2.4 million loss in the third quarter 2011 primarily due to swings from loss to gain in both the fair value of deferred compensation plan assets and foreign currency translation.
Interest expense in the third quarter was $5 million versus $0.2 million in the prior year period reflecting $4.8 million of additional interest on the $555 million of new debt raised to fund the SHL acquisition.
Total company adjusted EBITDA margin in the third quarter was 29.1% versus 23.5% in the third quarter of 2011.
At the segment level adjusted EBITDA margin was 29.3% for CEB and 28.4% for SHL in the quarter.
In addition to improved scaling of the business on strong revenue growth the CEB segment margins benefited from a $1 million swing from a loss to gain on foreign currency translation the normalization of revenue recognition accounting as compared to the prior year and as we discussed in Q2 the continued deferral of some investments as we focused on the early stages of integration.
Depreciation and amortization in the third quarter was $11.3 million an increase of $7.5 million compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Most of this change is from higher amortization of intangible assets resulting from the SHL Baumgartner and Valtera acquisitions.
We currently estimate that our full-year effective tax rate will be approximately 47% before the effect of foreign currency translation gains or losses.
The rate this year is higher than the statutory rates due to the non-deductibility of certain items for tax primarily transaction costs related to the SHL acquisition.
The tax provision in the third quarter thus reflects additional amounts needed to bring the 9-month total up to the full-year estimated rate.
Next year on a normalized basis that is before factors that could give rise to permanent book tax differences we currently expect that our effective tax rate will be in the range of 38% to 40%.
I'll come back to non-GAAP EPS in just a minute.
But first I'll highlight a few other items in the quarterly financials.
Accounts receivable was $150.2 million at September 30 which includes $40.2 million for SHL.
The current portion of deferred revenues was $289.5 million at September 30 including $26 million from SHL.
As compared to the prior year deferred revenues increased by 12.1% on the CEB portion due to improved year-over-year bookings and points to additional near-term revenue growth.
Year-to-date cash flows from operations were $77.3 million for the 9 months of 2012 an increase of 33.1% over the prior-year period driven largely by improved business performance the addition of SHL and cash tax benefits from the sale of Toolbox.com.
Please turn to slide 11.
In his opening remarks Tom told you that non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for the quarter was $0.78 representing a 66% increase from the third quarter of 2011.
This growth is the result of 3 factors.
Improved performance in the legacy CEB business the addition of SHL's results and the application of a new methodology for calculating this measure.
In the top half of the slide we first stepped through a year-over-year comparison of non-GAAP EPS using our prior methodology.
On that basis which provides a clearer view of ongoing operations you can see that our non-GAAP EPS was $0.60 a 42.9% increase reflecting both growth in the CEB segment and the acquisition of SHL.
In the bottom half of the slide you can see that we are now also adjusting out the impacts of share-based compensation and the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles.
We believe adding back these non-cash expenses will help investors more clearly assess CEB's ongoing cash earnings and facilitate easier financial comparisons to other information services companies many of which define these non-GAAP measures in a similar fashion.
You'll note that for the same reason we have also changed the definition of adjusted EBITDA to add back share-based compensation expense.
Please refer to Pages 11 and 12 of our press release for a full reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures.
Now let's move on to our outlook.
The following comments are intended to fall under the Safe Harbor provisions outlined at the beginning of the call and are based on preliminary assumptions which are subject to change over time.
Please turn to slide 12 which highlights our current outlook and provides a preliminary view into next year.
Starting with 2012 you'll note that we raised our guidance for the year to reflect both CEB performance and the addition of SHL.
We now expect consolidated revenues to be in a range of $610 million to $620 million for the year which contemplates CEB revenues trending towards the upper half of our prior outlook our near-term expectation for flatter year-over-year growth at SHL and the estimated impact of deferred revenue fair value adjustments in the fourth quarter.
We now expect adjusted EBITDA margin for this year to be in a range of 26% to 27% which implies a sequential reduction from the year-to-date level.
This expectation is based on seasonal factors at CEB several items intended to set up a fast start to 2013 including our initiative to bring forward certain hiring needs into the fourth quarter of this year and our plans to accelerate marketing and brand development initiatives in this year.
We also expect a small sequential decline in SHL margins largely driven by expected project delivery costs in the quarter and a catch up of some hiring activity.
Depreciation and amortization in 2012 is expected to be in the range of $37 million to $37.5 million and capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $18 million to $20 million.
The effective tax rate for this year is currently estimated to be 47% due to the factors I discussed a few minutes ago and these elements combine to imply that our non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is expected to be in a range of $2.45 to $2.55 in 2012.
Now let me share some preliminary thoughts about next year.
Of course we will have a much clearer view on projected 2013 financial performance when we provide our initial guidance during our February call.
Our perspective will be informed by where we end 2012 and the nature of the prevailing economic environment as well as our operating and investment plans for 2013.
But here's how we see the world today: First and foremost while there are certainly challenges in pockets of the legacy CEB business especially in Europe on balance our teams are enjoying solid momentum that we expect will carry through into 2013.
And we will continue to make the investments necessary to sustain that performance and also develop new revenue streams.
Next as Tom said earlier we see great potential on our SHL business and continue to believe that these operations will produce similar economics in terms of revenue growth and profitability to those seen on the CEB platform.
As we disclosed in the 8-Ka we filed on October 18 and again in today's call 2012 growth at SHL is lower than what the company experienced in the 2009 to 2011 period.
For 2013 we are constructing an operating plan designed to put SHL back on a trajectory towards its historical growth rates by increasing sales capacity and pursuing revenue synergy initiatives especially in North America.
While we expect it may take a few quarters to see better growth at SHL our teams are focused on achieving that outcome as soon as possible.
As a result we expect 2013 consolidated revenues net of the impact of deferred revenue fair value adjustments to grow in line with our long-term 8% to 13% organic growth objective as compared to pro forma 2012 revenues.
We would expect to see adjusted EBITDA margin in the range of 25% to 27% depending on the pace and timing of revenue growth versus our investment plans.
Depreciation and amortization will depend on our capital investment plan for 2013 but at this stage we would expect roughly 5% growth on a pro forma basis.
This assumption incorporates potential capital expenditures including an integration related cost of $25 million to $30 million.
And as I said earlier we expect the normalized effective tax rate in 2013 to be in the range of 38% to 40% depending on the magnitude and mix of U.S.
versus international growth.
We will provide a more comprehensive discussion of these 2013 expectations and the implications for non-GAAP EPS during our February call to review full-year 2012 results.
That's it for the financial summary.
We will now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Tim McHugh with William Blair &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> First I want to ask about SHL.
Can you just give us a little more color on kind of some of the transition issues that you talked about? And I think you noted a couple of markets so can you be a little more specific about what was weak there? Sure.
Yes SHL definitely saw its growth take a step back in Q3 and Q4 and we're not expecting a rapid tick back up in -- I'm sorry in Q2 and Q3 and we're not expecting a big tick back up in Q4.
We see 2 big reasons behind this.
One is they've gone through a pretty significant corporate transition for a company of their size.
Their management team was deeply involved in selling the business and then getting off to a fast start in integration.
We look at it and say there's no question that that cost them time and energy that would have otherwise been spent on the market.
And second very healthy growth in their core U.K.
and U.S.
markets was offset to some degree by sluggish performance in the challenged EU markets that I think we can all name if we tried.
And just -- in their business European markets are just a bigger portion of the business line than they are in any of our other business lines.
So the impact from those markets is necessarily going to be greater.
That said we remain incredibly excited about this asset.
As we move through this transition we expect to see the SHL portion of our business growing at a very healthy rate.
We think their historical performance supports this view and we also see opportunity to drive improved pipeline development and conversion by deploying some of the best practices that we've developed over time at CEB.
As we mentioned in the script we're already seeing good referral volume and that's off a very limited pilot.
So we're feeling short-term challenges in some markets that you could predict but we see huge opportunities particularly in North America from this combination.
Research Division</strong> Have you -- some of the transition issues is it just a diversion of focus? Or have you seen turnover or any other more significant issues following the merger? As I said on the call there was some planned and well signaled management turnover.
So we're through that exercise right now and Robert Morgan is taking ownership of the business.
We've known Robert for a long time and we're very excited.
He's got his leadership team galvanized and very focused on the market now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as we move forward to get the kind of 2013 back up to the kind of your normalized growth rate can you give us a little more color on kind of -- you talked about increasing sales capacity.
Is that primarily in the U.S.? And then the revenue synergy part can you help us understand -- so for example the one -- the joint program you already rolled out for Challenger sales.
How big can any individual program like that be in a year? Just so we can get a sense of how those factors can offset any macro challenges.
Sure.
I mean at a very simplistic level there new product launches launched with the SHL capability inside will be broadly comparable to historical CEB product launches.
I mean they're in that strike zone.
So think about it as the first year contributes but it's as they scale over time that things get really interesting.
So we're excited by the Challenger launch.
I think to say its impact on 2012 would be minor at best.
We'll see good early momentum.
We'll get some key nameplate customers in place.
It will start to ramp in 2013 and will continue to ramp beyond that.
I think you'll see that pattern be pretty consistent the way in which these products come to market looks very much like our historical product launch activity set.
We see really 3 key areas of revenues synergy.
First is that one marrying our strong business value insight into functional performance with their strong predictive capabilities to give people the tools to manage talent in their organization.
And I would expect a few more of them in 2013.
That's obviously a key priority area.
I'm thrilled with how fast the teams worked to get that one in the marketplace.
That -- as you know that exceeded my expectations.
That was not -- the team set themselves an aggressive timeline to get valid predictive capabilities in market and they delivered wonderfully.
And that gives me great confidence we'll be able to get more products in market like that quickly.
Second just leveraging the big CEB North American footprint to drive SHL's growth here.
Some of that is referral some of it is using the fact that we can -- just -- we've already begun incorporating some of their data as a marketing play to our customers.
They know what's available to them.
Some of that is adding sales capacity and some sales process that we've got that we think allows them to knock on more doors and create more opportunities.
And third down the road they have a great presence in the international markets that make up -- as strong as North America is right now for us the rest of the world we have a number of markets where we're still underdeveloped and we will leverage their capacity in those markets to grow our business.
That's probably our third priority in terms of urgency right now given that some of those markets are challenged.
But make no mistake we see huge opportunity across time there.
So we're feeling good about integrating the functions and getting a plan in place to capture the cost savings feeling good about linkages on products early days yet on the referrals and scaling the sales engine but a lot of indicators that we cannot -- together we can accomplish some important things so very exciting.
And I feel very confident that we're going to have a great 2013 plan ready to go.
And the -- Tim this is Rich.
I'd just add a little bit more color just in terms of how this plays out in 2013.
As we mentioned it will take probably a couple of quarters to get back on a trajectory towards those historical growth rates.
So you would expect that we'd see better growth at kind of this time third fourth quarter next year.
But the full-year growth rate probably won't be well up into those historical rates.
Research Division</strong> The full-year growth rate won't be? For SHL.
Research Division</strong> For SHL.
But your guidance here it's for the overall to still be within? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last just a numbers questions for me Rich.
The organic CEB growth.
Can you tell us what the contribution was from Baumgartner in terms of -- and Valtera in terms of the CEB growth? I can't remember if that's...
Yes yes.
It was -- the Baumgartner Valtera piece was $4.3 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Same as the revenue? I'm sorry.
Research Division</strong> I was asking contract value.
It was comparable to last quarter.
It was in that $4 million range.
And at this point Tim we've got those products effectively well integrated into our platform.
So we've mixed them up with some CEB capabilities and are jointly bringing them to market.
So I think that -- if you're a customer you don't even look at most of those and see them as different anymore.
And we'll go next to Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you just give us the normalized year-over-year growth for SHL however you want to do it either on a pro forma revenue or a reported revenue? Just -- you only had like 2 months' worth.
And what did I see on a year-over-year basis? So on a constant currency basis in the third quarter it was roughly 1% year-over-year growth.
There were currency headwinds again in the quarter.
So when we put out the Q next week which will provide the third quarter pro forma numbers that will actually be slightly negative.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it sounds like the -- what we're seeing is a consistent deceleration of the revenue growth and you're expecting that to continue into the fourth quarter and possibly into the first quarter of next year as well? I think based on we're seeing right now we think that the year-over-year growth is similar in the fourth quarter to what we have in the third quarter based on the current forecast in place.
And then we would expect to start to make some progress back on the upswing as we move into next year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in order to get into your -- into the range you're talking about in the 8% to 13% were you either thinking a really strong snapback in SHL or really good performance on CEB.
Is that correct? Well I think obviously depending on which end of the range you're talking about.
That's a key factor.
I think we certainly expect as I said that by the time we get to the end of the year we should see growth rates trending more towards historical patterns for SHL.
I think for the -- on the full-year basis that probably gets us close to the lower end of the range there.
But CEB we would still expect to be anywhere in that kind of low to high end of the range.
So on a blended basis it gets us into the full-year range.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you're talking about a pro forma growth of 8% -- or 8% to 13% for next year what's the actual revenue number we should be using to grow off of? Just -- what's the number you're expecting in a GAAP basis-driven report? You could give it with the range with the $610 million to $620 million annualized number.
Yes.
I mean I think obviously that will depend on the fourth quarter.
But if you take the -- if you assume the same rate of growth in the fourth quarter as the third quarter on a pro forma basis that gets you kind of over $210 million at SHL depending on where currency exchange rates go.
And then if you just use something kind of above the midpoint of our range that we had at CEB that's kind of in the 5 -- between $545 million $550 million area.
So you add those numbers up you get something in the kind of $760 million area.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So what we should be looking at is the growth off of a $760 million number? Yes.
But then you need to apply the deferred revenue haircut for next year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so what -- how should we think of that? There were $34 million is this going to be ratable $8.4 million a quarter? How should I think of a deferred revenue haircut? So I would expect it'll be at -- it's inherently hard to predict because there's a portion of it is based on actual usage.
But our best estimate right now is for a similar number in the full fourth quarter as to what we saw in the third quarter.
That probably slows down a little bit in the first and second quarter of next year and then tails off in the second half.
But I would say most of it should be -- have -- should've come through by the end of 2013.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I'm looking at $760 million minus $26 million and then when next year's growth of 8% to 13% off of that number the $760 million minus $26 million? Are there -- just looking for a real number out there.
What's the real number to look? Yes.
I mean obviously Shlomo again we're going to provide more clear guidance once we get to the end of the year and we provide our full-year guidance.
This is just a way for you to shape your modeling at this stage in time.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Should I take out the $26 million for this year or -- for that 8% to 13% growth or not? From the $760 million how should I think of that? You need to take it out of this year's.
So you need to take the $16 million out of this year and then grow off of that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Wallet retention is actually pretty surprising on SHL given the revenue trajectory.
What's going on over there exactly? Are they having stronger growth out of existing clients in North America and shrinkage in Europe? I mean can you give us more color on that? Yes.
Shlomo it's Tom.
It's kind of interesting their business is not widely different than ours.
In challenged markets what you tend to see happen and this is true in our European business as well the easiest thing to do and it's not easy but the easier of the 3 things to do is renew your existing customers.
The next hardest thing to do is cross-sell to them and the hardest thing to do is go knock on a new door and get someone to adopt a new solution.
So on balance this illustrates just how sticky their products are in that they're -- even with their market exposure their existing customer usage and engagement seems to be pretty good.
As I said on the call I do see an opportunity for them and for us to work together to continue to add some new sales capacity to build on top of that.
But it does I think illustrate the strength of customer relationships and the good job that their teams do at engaging existing customers and staying part of those workflows.
But it's interesting.
Their business does behave a little bit like ours in challenged markets in that the hardest thing to do is kick open a new door.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on a metrics basis.
When I look at the number added to net income to get to the adjusted EPS versus the write-off of deferred revenue.
The write-off of deferred revenues is $8.4 million.
But the add-back is only $6.1 million.
Is the difference an assumed tax rate? Yes.
That's applying the appropriate effective tax rate.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so the effective tax rate would be lower on that stuff? It's lower on that because it relates to international jurisdictions.
We'll go next to Dan Leben with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification question first.
On the revenue guidance for 2012 is that the pro forma adjusted revenue or is that GAAP revenue? That's GAAP revenue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then digging into SHL.
Is there any seasonality in that business on the non-subscription side of the business that would impact the fourth quarter positively or negatively? On balance they're less seasonal than we are.
There are a couple of periods the summer months kind of July August in particular and then December as well where you see a little bit slower usage consumption just given kind of office holidays and things like that.
So that will certainly be -- that December element will be a factor in the fourth quarter but that's contemplated in our forecast.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the 8-K the SHL business is broken out by 5 regions.
I know you mentioned that the U.K.
Tom was a stronger region.
Did the performance there actually get better in the third quarter? Because that was an area that was sluggish in the filing.
Yes.
There's some noise in that filing number Dan in that they flow some of their distributor relationships through that U.K.
number.
So think of like 3 guys who are doing coaching work in Milwaukee would license some of their stuff to do the coaching work to assess talent.
That business for historical reasons just flowed through the U.K.
And that part of the business was -- it's been -- it bounces around a little bit probably in decline across time as they build out their own capabilities.
So that number flows through the U.K.
and mucks it up a little bit.
U.K.
growth has been solid this year across the board and that continued in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the core CEB segment.
Very strong margin pull-through in the quarter.
Revenues up $3.5 million but an $8 million increase in EBITDA.
Help us understand the moving parts there.
Is it $2.5 million stock comp $1 million FX and then the rest just deferral of investments? Or were there other moving pieces on the cost side? The other piece is the revenue recognition impact from last year.
You may recall we had about -- we had a $2.5 million reduction in revenue last year in the quarter which depressed the margin in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> But on -- I was just looking on a sequential basis.
So I'm sorry which were the items that you highlighted again? Research Division</strong> So on a sequential basis it's stock comps an additional $2.5 million -- your expenses were $4.5 million lower.
So it's $2.5 million stock comp was there an I guess FX impact? Or what else brought the expenses down sequentially? Well there are seasonal factors.
The biggest one is that the payroll tax impact for bonuses being paid out in the second quarter and then we also have -- 2Q and 4Q were kind of our peak times for doing the member meetings and the summer time is a slower time.
So those 2 were the biggest factors that kind of drove sequential expenses down.
We'll go next to David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a bigger quick picture question.
On the broader market for employee -- preemployment testing what percentage of the market is now on a SaaS-based model like SHL versus more traditional methods? I'm just trying to get your sense of how far along in that secular shift this market really is.
Yes.
I think we're still in the early innings on a couple dimensions here.
One is if you look at preemployment I think it's adopted for some functions but not for all.
So we still see huge opportunities both by job category and by geographic market to continue to roll out SaaS-based or technology-based preemployment.
Secondly post employment like the stuff we're doing for Challenger is hugely under-penetrated from a technology and data perspective.
There is still underutilization of these capabilities internally as people think about evaluating people for promotions or new jobs or reorgs et cetera.
So I think on both sides we're at the very early stages of adoption many job categories it hasn't been applied to yet and many geographies have not proceeded down the adoption curve yet.
Probably the third thing is I'd say -- creating kind of a complex simultaneous equation here.
But third thing is I'd say companies have only begun to leverage the data this generates to make better talent decisions too.
So the breadth of application beyond simple predictive -- of hire no hire promote not promote but more broadly what do we have as strengths and weaknesses.
And we think the first Challenger product we've got is early days there but there are other things we can do to help people do talent audits talent analytics et cetera.
So very early days in terms of adoption as we work through this.
And that's our historical strength is introducing people to new ways of conducting key elements of their business.
So part of the reason we're so excited is helping people make this conversion is something CEB has historically been pretty good at.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then maybe how many quarters would bookings have to be down in EMEA before -- I'm sure you're already tightening all the costs that you can but before you start making larger cost-containment actions? I think we're still -- to my previous answer the profile of the revenue in EMEA is solid but not perfect renewables okay with a lot of room to improve cross-sells and more difficult new sells.
What we think about that is on balance it probably shapes where the next 5 salespeople get deployed when we do hiring rather than any sort of cost outs.
So given our under-penetration in those markets over the long term we still have significant hiring to do.
But if people aren't buying new things we'd probably throttle back some of the sales force build there and deploy elsewhere in the world where we see robust growth and uncovered territory.
So right now we're seeing a little bit more capacity add in North America or in the Americas more broadly and Asia Pac.
But that's how we'll manage through this.
I think the core business there is performing solid but we have fewer opportunities to grow it.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then maybe if I could squeeze in one more.
On the CEB segment the fourth quarter has historically been the largest one for adding new memberships.
Are you tracking to double-digit contract value growth in that core CEB segment? It's hard because it's a leading indicator on a leading indicator.
It's almost as if you're meeting my simultaneous equations with a second derivative.
The -- I would say we -- as we said coming out of the third quarter we see our teams doing a great job connecting what we do to renew levers of business value both for members and for prospects.
And that's -- I think our core performance says that the economy is not great now but companies need help to perform and our teams are doing a great job helping them envision how we can help them and then making it happen for them.
We'll go next to Gary Bisbee with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I'll ask the question that's on everybody's mind but nobody's asked to date.
You tell us in July that SHL is growing above the corporate.
In August maybe you tone that down a little bit to sort of more like at the same range.
And then you drop these numbers on us a few weeks ago that show it decelerated a lot.
I think we all totally understand that Europe's weaker.
But just why didn't you say that? It's either that you communicated it terribly or you just didn't know.
Either one is pretty disturbing to me.
So -- and with a 20% drop in stock obviously I'm not the only one who was surprised by that.
So anything else you can tell us other than what you've said to date to explain that? Gary as we were going through the diligence process in Q2 and Q3 we certainly saw exposure to markets that were challenged.
But at that point certainly in Q2 their business was holding up well enough in other markets that we felt comfortable obviously that that exposure was going to be manageable.
The -- we did adjust our valuation based on our view of the business and the exposure to certain markets it had.
So we've reflected in our conversations with the sellers.
That said I would say a few markets did surprise us to the downside.
And given their relatively larger exposure to that market that has affected the overall growth rate of the SHL product areas.
As you'd guess that really does affect our near-term synergy and integration plans.
To the good it's only reinforced what we saw as the most important element of synergy which is helping their business get bigger faster in North America.
It's a market where we have a lot of momentum a lot of size and a lot of relationship.
So there's -- if anything the exposures we saw were confirmed and probably to the downside in a couple of circumstances.
But more broadly the big simple idea behind the acquisition that this is something companies need more help with this is a new way of solving real problems and this particular business has a leading solution that's under-applied in North America is not something that we've changed one bit of our opinion about.
But there were -- to be fair there are a couple markets that were even within the exposure bands downside surprises to us.
So we're working to offset those and get them back to their historical growth rate.
But I'm highly confident both in the quality asset and our ability to reaccelerate growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The comment there about focus more in North America.
How quickly will you -- I guess what does the sales cycle look like to cross-sell? How quickly will you be able to see success or get perceptions from clients as to whether this will make sense more broadly? Is this something a quarter from now you have a better handle on? Or is this going to take a while? As to perceptions from clients assume we tested that very thoroughly even prior to engaging in this process.
So a big thumb up -- thumbs up from our customers that both this is a large and growing need and that this combination makes a lot of sense in our customers' minds.
And the feedback we've gotten from customers has been great.
As to conversion of that excitement into revenue as I said we're already generating referrals.
But we want to be a little careful.
Both sets of sales teams had pipelines they were working entering Q4.
So my desire to go sprinkle new exciting bits of pixie dust all over what they were working on was pretty low.
I wanted to make sure we stayed very focused on the near-term opportunities these guys had already been developing.
So we put in place a few limited pilots to see what made sense.
I think the impact in Q4 will be modest.
But we're starting the process of building the sales capability adding the resource.
And sales cycles probably a little longer than CEB's historically.
So as you add sales capacity and start sales cycles part of the reason Rich says they're going to be tracking back across the year is not all of that will take hold in Q1 and Q2.
We'll get -- we'll take advantage of the earliest and most obvious opportunities as soon as we possibly can.
But the full build is going to take several quarters to work through the human capital plan into the sales pipeline into closed business and into the P&amp;L.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one more thing that came out of that filing that was -- that I guess was interesting to me was you had sort of core SHL business although I don't even if core is the right word because it had had some acquisitions.
But then there was this deconsolidated subsidiary serving U.S.
government or at least in large part.
I guess 2 questions on that.
Are you confident that this low-double digit to low teens or whatever the number was was actually the organic growth of the business when you look at customers and units sold and not more related to the historical M&amp;A there? And then #2 on this formerly deconsolidated subsidiary.
Is the risk to that business -- because it looked like in the first half it generated the lion's share of the growth that SHL had.
Is the risk to that is the U.S.
government starts cutting back whether it's on defense as Obama says he's going to do or just in general trying to deal with the deficit we have here? Is that asset is going to be challenged? Let me answer the first question which is no we're highly confident that the growth rates we're talking about were at the customer and at the market and opportunity level not -- they were -- we went through that very carefully in the process to make sure that we are comfortable with historical growth rates.
And also other things like we're comfortable with the quality of the asset and the quality of the resources.
So I did a lot of customer-level diligence.
One of the great things about CEB's huge customer footprint is we can diligence an asset very thoroughly.
Let me talk a little bit about PDRI.
It -- just so you get the full context they're the unit within SHL North America that does post-hire assessments and development which is a huge area of interest to us.
They're the big thought leaders in that space.
A portion of that business has been for the defense and security-related agencies.
So SHL as a U.K.
company had to manage them through a proxy board.
Hence you saw them broken out in the financials as an equity method investment rather than fully consolidated.
It's a great business.
It's got great thought leaders.
Their growth reflects the general relevance of what they do rather than a single contract opportunity or market.
They did -- they do serve the defense industry but they're well beyond that as well.
We do watch the federal budget situation carefully.
Obviously we live here.
Probably a couple of things worth keeping in mind as we look out though.
One is less than 10 -- far less than 10% of our overall business including PDRI is in the government sector.
That's a much smaller share than you would see in almost any other business services or advisory firm.
So we're still -- we still ironically see it as a growth market.
Second the things we do the areas of strength we've historically enjoyed and messages appear to be actually particularly relevant right now.
We're not selling $15 million $250 million programs.
We're selling management tools to tighten management of day-to-day activities and manage people better which historically governments been a big buyer of big things and small things that help them manage better have not been highly resonant for a whole bunch of reasons.
Ironically in addition to the PDRI growth our own government business was one of the fastest-growing markets in the third quarter as people are trying to find tools to help them manage their -- for themselves more effectively.
We saw people reaching out to us across a variety of agencies et cetera.
And the things we do for them procurements cost management cybersecurity employment for key populations like veterans are areas of pretty intensive focus.
So we think we're pretty well positioned for an era of government austerity.
That said it's not -- given that it's such a small part of our business in total it's not going to be area of corporate-level breakout growth.
But we actually are hearing -- even as people have prepared for and begun to implement austerity measures they seem to be turning to us a little more rather than less often.
We have our eye on it.
Research Division</strong> And then just one last one.
The preliminary 2013 thanks for that.
The margin flat to slightly down can you just give a sense Rich maybe some of the moving parts there? I know you had previously cited $5 million of cost savings and I think that that adjusted earnings excludes merger integration.
So what else is going on you're expecting to invest in sales force for this business? Or are the -- you said the margins would tick down a little sequentially.
Is that going to continue for several quarters? How do we think about the -- that margin guidance? Sure.
I mean I think the thinking right now is that yes we are going to be making investments in a number of areas sales capacity being the biggest one.
And as Tom referenced focusing on North America in particular for SHL is a factor there.
We'll also be doing product development again as Tom had mentioned and with a focus on fully leveraging not only the SHL assets but other efforts that were in place on the legacy side.
And one of the swing factors always is kind of how fast does revenue grow.
And so that would certainly be a key element of what determines whether we end up at the higher or lower end of that margin range as well.
And we'll take our final question from Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just on the legacy business for CEB.
Just wondered if you could give us some color around bookings and deferred revenue for the third quarter excluding any impact from SHL.
Yes.
The deferred revenue was up about 12% in the quarter.
I highlighted that on the -- in the deck and also on the balance sheet.
So the bookings if you do the math that people typically do you'll find kind of low double-digit growth in bookings as well.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference back to Mr.
Monahan for any additional or closing remarks.
Perfect.
Thanks very much.
Let me thank everyone for calling and/or dialing in and especially appreciate the efforts some folks made given weather impacts.
I will close where I began.
I'm proud of how our teams continue to execute very well in a tough environment even as we closed and announced a significant transaction.
We leave the quarter with real momentum at our largest markets an even stronger competitive platform and a tremendous amount of clarity about where we'll target our energies and focus.
To both close the year strong as we outlined but also to set up an attractive 2013.
I look forward -- Rich and I'll be out on the road and we're always here and eager to keep people up-to-date on our progress in the months and years ahead.
That does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Corporate Executive Board's Fourth Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through Friday through February 17 by dialing (719) 457-0820.
The replay passcode is 5487622.
The replay will also be available beginning later today and through February 17 at the company's website and at www.earnings.com.
To the extent any non-GAAP financial measure is discussed in today's call you will also find a reconciliation of that measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated according to GAAP by going to the company's website and following the Investor's link to yesterday's news release.
You will also find a PDF of the supporting material that the company will use in its prepared remarks this morning by going to Investor's page and following the link to the Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Please review the second page of these materials which includes important information about any forward-looking information included in the presentation.
This conference may also contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements among others regarding the Corporate Executive Board's expected quarterly and annual financial performance for fiscal year 2013 or beyond.
For this purpose any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing discussions of forecasts estimates targets plans beliefs expectations and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
You are hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by important factors among others set forth in the Corporate Executive Board's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its fourth quarter news release.
Consequently actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the conference over to the company's Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Richard Lindahl.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Jessica and good morning everyone.
My name is Rich Lindahl I'm the Chief Financial Officer of CEB.
Thank you all for calling or logging in to our fourth quarter and full year 2012 earnings report.
On today's call I will review our 2012 financial results and guidance for the year ahead.
Tom Monahan our Chief Executive Officer will then take over to share additional insight on our 2012 accomplishments and discuss our growth strategy and priorities for 2013.
Then we will take your questions.
Please turn to Slide 3 of our presentation and we'll start with a quick summary of key financial highlights.
Overall we are pleased with our 2012 results which reflect our success in the market and point to the strong value proposition we offer our customers.
We are seeing solid growth momentum across most of our business and are optimistic about the year ahead.
Accordingly we are planning for continued top line growth attractive profitability and strong cash flows which enable us to maintain our financial flexibility invest in further growth opportunities and return capital to shareholders.
Let's turn to Slide 4 for a summary recap of our results.
Revenue was $193.7 million in the fourth quarter and $622.7 million for the full year of 2012 reflecting year-over-year increases of 46.8% and 28.5% respectively.
Adjusted EBITDA margin was 27% in the fourth quarter and 27.2% for all of 2012.
Earnings per diluted share were $0.21 in the fourth quarter and $1.10 for the full year of 2012 and reflect costs related to the SHL acquisition.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increased 6.2% to $0.69 for the fourth quarter and 36.4% to $2.55 for the full year of 2012.
The business also continues to generate strong cash flows which are augmented by the addition of SHL.
Cash flows from operating activities were $122.2 million in 2012 an increase of 21.8% over 2011.
So all in all these results showed that our business gained financial momentum in the quarter.
Now let's turn to Slide 5 to review our key operating metrics.
I'll touch on a few highlights here and then Tom will provide more regional and segment color in his remarks.
CEB segment contract value at December 31 was $561.8 million and was up 12.5% compared to the prior year.
This year-over-year increase was mainly fueled by solid double-digit bookings growth reflecting sustained momentum in North America and Asia Pacific along with an uptick in EMEA.
Contract value also includes $9.6 million from Valtera which as we've said is fully integrated with our legacy CEB employee analytics business.
For the SHL segment adjusted revenue was $46.8 million in the fourth quarter consistent with the expectations we shared on our last earnings call and a modest improvement in year-over-year growth versus the third quarter.
CEB segment wallet retention rate of 102% at December 31 remained in the normal range and was also supported by an uptick in cross-sell activity in the quarter.
SHL segment while at retention rate was 97% at December 31 also in the normal range and reflective of strong recurring revenue in that part of our business.
Growth in total CEB segment member institutions further extended year-to-date gains by increasing 6.1% compared to last year.
Growth was fairly evenly split between middle market and large corporate customers.
Finally CEB segment contract value per member institution continued to improve and it grew 6% to $92 300.
Of note the average contract value across our top 200 largest accounts has increased to $800 000 reflecting continued cross sales of both member subscriptions and premium services to these customers.
Please turn to Slide 6 and I'll walk through key segment highlights.
Before I do so I want to be sure you note that we have modified our segment definitions and are now including PDRI results within the CEB segment.
We have begun to more closely coordinate PDRI's operations with CEB's government practice and therefore it is more appropriate to align our segment reporting accordingly.
As you can see our fourth quarter results benefited from both solid organic gains in our CEB segment and the addition of SHL.
CEB segment revenue was $155.7 million in the fourth quarter an 18% increase compared to $132 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Included in the CEB segment is approximately $12.2 million of inorganic revenue in the quarter from PDRI and Valtera.
The SHL segment contributed $38.1 million of revenue in the fourth quarter which is net of an $8.7 million deferred revenue fair value adjustment.
Additional quarterly reductions will be recognized going forward and we currently estimate the total impact on 2013 revenue will be approximately $13 million.
Moving on to operating expenses.
Cost of services in the fourth quarter increased by $29.3 million versus the fourth quarter of 2011.
Acquired businesses represented about 80% of this increase with the additional balance coming from product enhancement efforts and support for a larger customer base including increased capacity to deliver premium services.
Member relations and marketing expense increased by $18.6 million in the fourth quarter versus the prior year period.
Acquisitions were the biggest factor here as well representing about 65% of the change.
We also added more sales capacity increased our marketing and branding spend and saw higher commissions driven by the growth in bookings.
General and administrative costs in the fourth quarter were up $7.8 million compared to the prior year with about 95% of the increase driven by the addition of SHL and Valtera.
Acquisition-related costs were $3.2 million in the fourth quarter.
Interest income and other was net expense of $0.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to $0.7 million of income in the fourth quarter of 2011 with the change primarily due to higher foreign currency losses and a smaller gain on deferred compensation plan assets.
Interest expense in the fourth quarter was $6.7 million versus $0.2 million in the prior year period reflecting the interest on the new debt raised to fund the SHL acquisition in August.
Total company adjusted EBITDA margin in the fourth quarter was 27% versus 30.8% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
At the segment level adjusted EBITDA margin in the quarter was 27.6% for the CEB segment and 24.8% for the SHL segment.
CEB segment margins reflect forward hiring activity higher bonus and commission accruals and the normalization of revenue recognition accounting as compared to the prior year.
As expected SHL segment margins declined sequentially from the third quarter on lower position vacancy project delivery costs and some forward hiring.
One more comment on total adjusted EBITDA margin.
As we discussed on our last call throughout the year we delayed a number of investments while we focused first on the acquisition process and then turned much of our attention to integration.
Accordingly we deployed fewer dollars against these initiatives than originally planned which resulted in approximately 125 basis points of full year favorability for consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin.
Depreciation and amortization in the fourth quarter was $15.6 million an increase of $10.9 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Most of this change is from higher amortization of intangible assets resulting from the SHL and Valtera acquisitions.
Our effective tax rate in 2012 was 50.3%.
This rate is higher than we forecast in November primarily because of the final distribution of pre-tax income across our global operating subsidiaries resulted in a greater concentration of taxable income in higher tax jurisdictions and less ability to claim foreign tax credits than previously estimated.
In addition as we've previously indicated the rate this year is higher than the statutory rates due to the nondeductibility of certain items for tax primarily transaction costs related to the SHL acquisition.
In terms of our balance sheet.
Accounts receivable was $239.6 million at December 31 which includes $52.2 million for SHL and PDRI.
The current portion of deferred revenue was $365.7 million at December 31 including $36.1 million from the SHL segment.
As compared to the prior year CEB segment deferred revenue which includes $5 million from PDRI increased by 15.5% due to year-over-year bookings growth and is a positive leading indicator for CEB segment revenue.
Please turn to Slide 7 for a review of our capital allocation priorities which remain the same as they have been the last several years.
First we will maintain a strong financial position.
You can see from our balance sheet that we ended the year with $72.7 million of cash.
In addition on December 31 the amount available under our revolving credit facility was $74 million reflecting a $10 million repayment during the fourth quarter.
We also paid the remaining $20 million revolver balance in January.
Accordingly our current revolver availability is now $94 million.
As you know one of the great features about our business is the high ratio of cash flow to earnings due in large part to favorable working capital characteristics.
Over the past several years the ratio of cash flows from operations to adjusted net income has averaged about 1.5x.
We expect that relationship to again hold through in 2013 or perhaps be a little better [ph].
As a result we expected our credit profile will continue to improve throughout the year as reflected by a net debt adjusted to EBITDA ratio of 2x or lower by year-end.
We also have said that we will provide current cash returns to shareholders and highlight the attractive financial characteristics of our economic model by growing our dividend in line with earnings and cash flow.
Earlier this week our board declared a first quarter dividend of $0.225 per share which reflects a 30% increase over the dividend rate paid in 2012.
Finally we be plan to use stock buybacks to offset dilution and maintain a constant share count.
During the fourth quarter we purchased $10 million of stock on the open market pursuant to the authorization which expired at the end of 2012.
In addition earlier this week our board approved a new $50 million share repurchase program.
Management will determine the amount and timing of purchases and the authorization will run through December 31 2014.
Now let's move on to our outlook.
The following comments are intended to fall under the Safe Harbor provisions outlined at the beginning of the call and are based on preliminary assumptions which are subject to change over time.
Please turn to Slide 8 which highlights our outlook for the year ahead.
Overall we are planning for a year of continued solid revenue growth attractive margin production and increased investment to pursue several short- and long-term growth opportunities that we see in our business.
Starting at the top line we expect adjusted revenue of $825 million to $845 million.
This forecast compares to a pro forma figure of $762 million if we had owned SHL for all of 2012.
As I mentioned earlier we currently expect the deferred revenue fair value adjustment to be approximately $13 million this year and so the implied revenue outlook is therefore $812 million to $832 million.
Based on this revenue profile we are planning for adjusted EBITDA margin in the range of 25% to 26.5%.
Several factors are at work here.
To the positive we expect to see continued scaling of G&amp;A an existing product costs as well as improved productivity among our tenured sales people.
We will also realize initial benefits from acquisition cost synergies.
Offsetting these items are the impact of the timing shift to 2013 of costs originally planned for 2012 a higher mix of revenue from our fast-growing but lower-margin premium services and additional investments and product development sales capacity marketing branding and other growth initiatives.
For 2013 we expect to incur $8 million to $10 million of acquisition-related costs as we work through the next phase of SHL acquisition -- integration.
Depreciation and amortization in 2013 is expected to be in the range of $62 million to $64 million and capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $29 million to $31 million including $45 million of integration projects.
The effective tax rate for this year is currently estimated to be approximately 40% to 41% depending on the distribution of global income and excluding any nonrecurring permanent book-tax differences such as foreign currency gains or losses.
These elements combine to imply that our non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are expected to be in the range of $2.85 to $3.15 in 2013.
While we don't provide quarterly guidance I'll share a few thoughts on what to expect as we progress throughout the year.
Overall we should see similar seasonal trends in the CEB segment as we've seen in the past which implies a flat to perhaps slightly down sequential revenue trend in the first quarter followed by sequential quarterly increases throughout the year.
In the SHL segment we continue to expect more improvement in adjusted revenues in the second half than the first half of the year.
On the expense side in both segments we are working hard to deploy many of our growth investments early in the year.
In addition expect to see seasonal cost elements that influence expenses higher in the second and fourth quarters in the CEB segment.
All of these factors are likely to drive margins lower in the first half of the year before they improve in the second half.
That's it for the financial summary.
I'll now turn the call over to Tom who will share more color on our operations and growth strategy in the year ahead.
Thanks Rich and good morning and thanks to everybody for calling and/or logging in this morning.
We appreciate the opportunity to bring you up to speed in the business and are excited to share our plans to grow in size and impact across the coming year.
Before I add some color to Rich's summary let me make a few larger observations about 2012 which was clearly a watershed year for CEB.
We enjoyed healthy organic revenue and profit growth in all of our markets and domain areas and we coupled this with important strategic investments in SHL and Valtera that deepened our connections to important member work and extended our growth horizons.
I'm proud of the work that our teams did to deliver for our members and to create a platform for future growth.
Their efforts ensured that CEB exited 2012 with the core elements of its investment thesis substantially strengthened.
You can see them on Page 9.
Everything we did in 2012 supported the foundational value proposition for our investors.
We further enhanced our leadership positions in areas of growing corporate demand we've built and added rich new insights data and tools to help senior corporate executives set a course for their organization and get the right people in the right places to execute.
Our now larger and completely global business enjoys high margins scalable assets recurring revenue and cash flows that run as a multiple of net income.
And finally our success allows us to make focused investments that help ensure continued healthy growth.
Before I outline how we'll bring these priorities to life let me share just a bit more detail about our accomplishments in 2012.
The obvious place to begin is with the clear-eyed assessment of the operating environment we are navigating.
We continue to operate in a very complex economic environment with anemic growth at best across the developed markets.
As we benchmark member plans we don't see it getting a lot better in 2013.
Our average large cap member is seeking to grind out modest top line growth in 2013 and they have a weary eye on the still dysfunctional political climate in the U.S.
This is not an environment that rewards wasted effort and we see companies eager for help in allocating people and resources and ensuring that their operations are at a best-practice standard.
But to help them be at their best we have to be at our best connecting our insights data and tools to their needs via inspired sales and service.
And very often in 2012 our teams executed to a high standard.
As you can see from both the Q4 results and the year-end CEB number we sustained and in some cases accelerated momentum across much of the business in Q4 which sets us up well for 2013.
Within the CEB product lines the story strengthened as the year unfolded.
Both North America and APAC sustained growth rates above the corporate average for the full year.
The good news in the fourth quarter came from Europe where the team engineered a very solid year-on-year quarterly growth number with an impressive late-year push.
While no one expects the going in Europe to be easy anytime soon it's a powerful testament both to the value which this team creates for their members and to their intensity and focus.
All of our end markets grew at healthy rate with both mid-market and large corp showing solid year-on-year progress.
A notable story here was the success of our government markets team which posted very solid growth against the backdrop of significant austerity in the U.S.
federal sector.
This is obviously a very small portion of our overall footprint and we are exceedingly watchful in an era of significantly constrained budgets.
But this area's rapid growth is impressive evidence of our ability to help even the most budget-constrained executives realize value.
Finally all of our domains grew at a healthy rate with our sales technology and broader talent management areas seeing particular strength as we cross-sold members additional products and they opted into higher levels of premium support.
We're pleased with this dynamic but it does provide a little offset to the natural scaling of the business as our premium services sometimes have a higher proportion of variable cost.
In the SHL product line the story was a bit more positive than we had projected in November with the business overall showing very modest growth of the quarter on an adjusted revenue basis.
The original story was broadly similar to what our CEB products have seen this year with Europe offsetting steady performance in Asia the Middle East and in the Americas.
All in all I'm proud of what our teams accomplished across 2012.
Our financial outcomes are evidence that our teams are doing a great job helping our members navigate in a very complex economic environment.
We entered the year with momentum in a number of our businesses a richer asset base to draw from a stronger and larger team and an expanded market to attack.
And our goals for 2013 reflect our focus on continued healthy growth strong profit and investment for the future.
Let me spend a minute on each of our core priorities: delivering business -- surplus business value to members leading the analytic transformation of talent management and achieving brand recognition that matches our global impact.
Please turn to Slide 10.
Priority one delivering surplus business value.
From the earliest days of our company our goal has been to ensure that our members see substantial tangible business value from their investments of time and money with us.
Our goal is not simply to provide them with a fair return but to give them insights tools and advice that lead to transformative outcomes for their team function or company.
Everything we do aims to help a member grow revenue reduce cost manage risk and ultimately transform their organization.
Doing this well requires that we develop uniquely valuable insights into the levers of business value link these resources to member decisions through compelling advice instruction and technology and create demand by inspired sales and service.
When we do this well we create game-changing outcomes for our members at a fraction of the cost of other sources of advice and support and we allow them to hardwire these outcomes via people and technology.
Or as one of our members in the power generation business put it "It's almost like having a consulting firm at your fingertips without having to pay the exorbitant consulting fees." Through this we earn the right to keep and grow our relationships with our members and in 2012 we saw plenty of evidence that our team did an outstanding job.
We posted a wallet retention rate for the CEB product of 102% in the SHL products of 97%.
Our largest customers rapidly grew their relationship with us with our top 200 on average growing more than 15%.
A small portion of this came from the addition of Valtera which is a great Fortune 100 franchise but most of it represents strong cross-selling.
You can see the steady growth that we enjoyed in this segment to the right of the slide.
You'll also note that we crossed the threshold of 6 000 member institutions for the first time due to strong large corporate new sales globally and strength in our middle market team.
This growth was underpinned by a strong increase in usage of our online platforms and a significant expansion of the impact of our advisory team.
And at the core as always was authoritative actionable research on topics as various -- varied as new drivers of employee productivity better ways of delivering IT services and identification of key leverage points for compliance management.
Our goals for 2013 are to continue to help members achieve great outcomes through effective creative execution and focused investments to enhance our impact.
A few areas in particular that we'll be focused on: continuing to invest in our firm level talent and performance data management assets.
With the addition of SHL's rich data set we now have the most comprehensive view into the drivers of leadership success functional and corporate performance and employee engagement and productivity across all geographies and functions and we're investing to make that valuable to all of our members.
Second advancing the development of technologies and tools that tie our resources to the most important repeating workflows particularly in the area of functional benchmarking employment analytics and talent audits.
Finally continue our investment in the people in process to create moments of impact where our great resources can create a wow factor for our member.
Please turn to Page 11.
Priority number 2 lead the analytic transformation of talent management.
As we discussed we see an enormous multi-year opportunity at helping members navigate across functions manage talent with rigor and analytic depth.
As one early adopter of these analytics remark to us "Now we can make sure that we have the right people with the right skills and the right behaviors in the right place at the right time." As we've said most companies don't manage human capital with the rigor of other corporate assets so not many people can yet make that claim.
We see this as a significant opportunity.
This has been a long-time focus of our program domains and it is an area where we radically accelerated our capability in 2012 with the acquisitions of Valtera and SHL.
We anticipate significant long-term growth opportunity here and I see a few areas of focus in 2013.
Job 1 is ramping our SHL products back to their normal growth zone.
The focus here is on great execution globally and on investing to build our North America sales and service capability.
As in all our businesses there's a lag between making these investments and seeing their impact on the top line so we anticipate some early year margin compression in this business as we establish the foundation for faster growth later into the year and into 2014.
Job 2 is to leverage our now broader footprint to bring compelling new propositions to market.
This takes 2 main forms: bringing our broader set of capabilities to our HR buyers and developing new applications for execs outside of HR.
We're seeing some positive early indicators that we can combine our assets in compelling new ways for HR execs.
Just last month one of our top account management teams installed a multi-year agreement with a large technology firm that spanned pre- and post-hire assessments from SHL performance management tools from Valtera and HR best practice resources from our CLC area.
And our first effort to sell into new buying centers the Challenger selection and assessment product in our sales effectiveness area continues to gain strong traction.
To the right you see the tangible benefits of applying analytic disciplines to sales hires.
Reps selected based on high assessment scores perform 10% above the average and attrit at 16% less.
If you ran this process for 3 years at a large sales organization you'd drive overall sales team performance growth and profitability by double digits on an annual basis.
With results like this you can expect to see our second launch outside of HR in the new year.
Finally job 3 is concluding our SHL integration so we can operate as a single entity with respect to both our markets and our operations.
We've made good progress here with the SHL leadership transition now largely complete along with the integration of our finance legal HR and technology operations.
We've also started to add some CEB folks to the SHL senior team globally and in the Americas and I'd expect to see some SHL talent move the other way.
Finally we've identified and begun to realize our cost synergy targets which will flow into the P&amp;L across the year.
We'll measure our success by the growth of these product lines in the impact we have on member decisions.
As Rich said the early part of the year is likely to be an investment cycle as we ramp more top line growth later in the year.
Please turn to Page 12.
Priority 3 achieving brand recognition that matches our global impact.
For many years in our corporate history we were content to be a well-kept secret.
We took great pride in having huge impact on companies as a relative unknown amidst the larger professional services brands.
We're also content to let individual products and service lines develop differentiated market voices.
We've realized over time however that the CEB brand is vital to having impact on member decisions and member companies and accordingly have begun to invest in building a clear compelling story about CEB in all of our markets.
Our focus this year will be on 3 fronts: first continuing to raise the visibility of the CEB brand across all of our markets primarily through consistency in how we talk about our risk capabilities and demonstrated track record of impact.
We will also continue to invest in gaining recognition among our key buyers through targeted events and media coverage an area where we continue to see very strong year-on-year growth.
The second front will be the integration of the SHL brand into the CEB brand framework.
This will be an important and challenging effort as our corporate footprints have very little geographic overlap.
In essence this integration represents the debut of our respective capabilities in a good number of markets globally.
You can see the timelines and the treatments on the right-hand side of the page.
A strong brand will pave the way for more cross sells and new sales as existing customers recognize the full breadth of what we can do and as more prospects globally associate great business outcomes with the power of our work.
The third and likely most important element of our brand is continuing to build one of the world's elite talent brands.
We don't run arms and legs consulting businesses.
We are far more dependent on the quality of talent we attract and grow than the quantity.
This requires that we create compelling careers that attract keep and grow top researchers advisors technologists and business builders.
We had a great year on the talent front enjoying strong retention of our high performers and adding hundreds more of great new CEB-ers.
Our talent metrics are all at the high end of our historical ranges across all our communities and we are determined to keep it that way.
2012 saw us invest heavily in new training and development resources that accelerate the careers of our people and boost their impact on our members.
And as you would probably guess we practice what we preach using strong analytics to measure every talent investment carefully.
Before we transition to Q&amp;A let me make one last point about our brand.
Our brand isn't our logo our colors or our tagline.
Our brand simply put is what we do for people the collective set of outcomes that help our members achieve by connecting great insights data and tools for important decisions.
And this happens through high impact moments where our people create connect and deliver value thousands of times each week.
So to close out 2012 was a year where we demonstrated and strengthened all elements of CEB's core investment thesis which you see on Page 13.
First we strengthened our leadership in areas of growing corporate demand.
Second we created even more valuable insights data and tools to help members solve big dollar problems and we connected these resources to member work via inspired sales service advice and technology.
We grew and extended our highly profitable recurring revenue business model and demonstrated a cash generative power of the business.
Looking forward to 2013 we have clear focus on a few priorities that will set us up for across the year and beyond delivering surplus value to members leaving the analytic transformation of talent management and achieving brand recognition that matches our global impact.
I'm proud of how well our teams accomplished that in 2012 against a tough economic backdrop a dysfunctional political process and significant change within the company.
Our success allows us to create returns for our holders -- our owners build compelling careers for our people and invest to push out the frontier of value and impact for our members.
We have much work ahead but we entered with 2013 to considerable momentum and large opportunity in a skilled committed team.
We'll now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Gary Bisbee with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question encouraging commentary you made on how Europe transpired in the fourth quarter.
Can you give us a little more color? Was this just better sales execution? Or how did that pick up the trend versus what you've seen in the prior quarter or 2? I think obviously it wasn't a macro tailwind as the markets there continue to be very difficult.
I think 2 things we saw.
One was I do think companies there have settled into a new normal and are grinding out ways to try to create some profit and value for their investors.
And we don't need a tailwind we just need stability.
Second is that team is blooded by battle.
It's a strong team that worked like heck to be able to articulate and create value for customers there.
And they're operating in a tough environment but they're no strangers to it.
I think their skills capability and commitment helped us create great outcomes.
We're very pleased with the resurgence of Europe in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> And can you be a little more specific on how the SHL business did? I think you've said it grew modestly more than the third quarter did I hear that right? And is that -- similar things going on there? Yes Gary this is Rich.
On the -- if you look at it on an adjusted revenues basis the year-over-year growth was a little bit less than 2% at SHL.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then the $8 million to $10 million of integration costs that you said would be in 2013 is that in or out of the adjusted EPS? And can you be a little more specific what types of spend are within that $8 million to $10 million? Sure.
That is -- we adjust those costs out of both adjusted EBITDA margin and non-GAAP EPS.
And those are going to be things -- there's a good chunk on the re-branding effort that Tom described during his presentation.
There's also some cost to implement the right compliance processes including making sure that we meet the deadline for adhering to Sarbanes-Oxley requirements.
And there's some other IT-related integration costs that don't end up getting capitalized.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just [indiscernible] I want to clarify 2 things the PDRI being moved into the CEB segment did that -- was that additive to contract value? No there's no contract value for PDRI.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just how about the -- you said it was the $7.5 million on profit.
What did it do on adjusted EBITDA? Is that a profitable business at this point? It was $7.5 million on revenue in the quarter and their margins are comparable to the CEB segment overall.
We'll go next to David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
What is your expectation for pricing on the core CEB membership in 2013? We -- go ahead Tom.
David as you know our pricing philosophy is pretty consistent.
We aim for 3% to 5% same-store sales pricing across.
And you've seen us stay pretty much within that -- in that trend across time with the exception of the steepest parts of the downturn.
I'd expect we'll be in that range again this year.
Last year we probably came a little closer to the lower end after a couple of years of being at the higher end.
But we aim first and foremost to make sure we're stepping up the impact in usage and value and then monetizing that through a consistent same-store sales price increases.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then would you expect inside that 25% to 26.5% adjusted EBITDA margin wherever you end up for 2013 is that the new base that you would think [ph] then begin to grow as you've said in your long-term margin outlook 25 basis points a year? Or would you be expecting some additional catch up in cost synergies related to SHL to kind of help you put out outsize margin expansion in 2014? David this is Rich.
I would say that overall we expect to stay on that trajectory of on average about 25 basis points over a multiple-year time period.
As we've talked about that can be more or less in every -- in any given year.
You certainly saw it to be more last year due to the factors that we described.
And there'll be some help certainly from some of the cost synergies there.
But I think that kind of long-term average of 25 basis points is the best assumption at this point in time.
Yes.
We think that lets us balance both continued returns but also we see lots of opportunity.
We want to make sure we're prudently investing it across time.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then do you have pro forma adjusted EBITDA margin for what it would've been in 2012 given a full year of SHL? I'm just trying to gauge the year-over-year margin change embedded in the guidance.
Yes it's not materially different from what we reported.
Research Division</strong> So the 27.2% that was reported? Yes it's in that zone.
We'll go next to Tim McHugh with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> First I just want to ask can you help us understand if we look at the legacy business client growth while solid was a little slower than last quarter while retention picked up.
Does that mean -- should we infer -- the contract value you absolutely did a better job with cross-sell I guess than new client additions? I guess how do we -- the trade-off between those metrics can you give us kind of the color behind it? Tim I think first we're happy with both outcomes.
So I think we're pleased with how teams are executing both.
You probably see a little bit of the Europe story still flowing through the new customer adds because that team's success was going to be as you'd guess more anchored on existing customers who knew us and knew how to use us.
So that's still a tough environment to go kick open a new door and say "Hi I'm here to help you buy something you've never bought before." We're still catching up on that capability there.
But more of the success in Europe came in -- came via cross-sell et cetera.
And I think -- so I think you'll probably see a little bit of that news flowing through to the new customer number.
We're very happy with both.
We're happy to cross that 6 000 member barrier which is great and we're happy to see our existing customers finding enough value to keep investing with us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you mentioned the faster growth from the slightly lower margin premium services.
I'm assuming most of that is the Leadership Academy and similar businesses.
How big is that as a percentage of revenue and how much lower is the margin? If you look at premium services across all segments so think about the portions of the SHL business where our professional services team will come in and help you choose what assessment you want and link them to your systems or the CEB business where we might take fair employment analytics and break it out by business unit so you can pick what you're seeing about your employees down to the individual country or business unit level.
Overall it's about 20% of the overall CEB total and the margins are under the corporate average.
Obviously they're profitable but they are under the corporate average and that offsets some of the scaling we get.
Now it also makes the highly scalable components of our business more sticky and embeds us deeper in member workflows.
So we're very happy to make that connection to members and make the business more sticky going forward.
It's about 20% in total across all our businesses.
And you did see us take a step up from then probably historically about 10% within CEB.
It took a step up to about 20% with the integration of SHL.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And last question just now that your 4 5 months out from the SHL acquisition I think your commentary generally sounded positive.
But as you've gotten deeper into it the ability to kind of cross-sell and enhance SHL's growth and especially in the U.S.
can you give us just I guess a summary of do you feel better about that? Is it -- are there any -- is there any thing that's been more challenging than you would've expect when you first did the deal? Short answer to anything more challenging no.
I think we've seen on the 2 fronts that we've identified one is simply bring the SHL product set to a broader footprint.
We've seen good early indicators there and we're learning.
I shared the -- one of the examples we have one of our teams being able to present and integrate the capabilities well across the waterfront of needs that an HR team has.
And then early returns from taking the tools and technologies and applying them in other domain areas are positive as well.
So nothing that has surprised us.
As I said from the outset our -- both sales teams were big [ph] to begin with.
So this was -- we didn't want to pull everyone offline and say "Okay let's all learn the exciting new products we have." And we're taking it step by step to make sure that this is accretive to sales force activity and not dilutive or distracting.
So we're getting smart about what we need to do and scaling the elements that work as we land on them.
We'll go next to Shlomo Rosenbaum of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to go over I want to make sure I understood right.
The year-over-year organic growth rate of SHL on a pro forma basis was about 2%? For the quarter yes.
And that's on an adjusted revenues basis.
It was a little bit less than 2%.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And what -- can you just talk about -- give us a little bit more detail on the geographies.
The big issue was Europe and it sounded like Europe picked up at CEB but not necessarily at SHL.
Can you just talk a little bit about what's going on in the geographies more? Yes I think the story in North America and APAC in the CEB segment has been year-on-year strength throughout the year.
Europe picked up in the CEB business in Q4 and they had a real nice late surge.
The team executed very well.
The same general trends we're applying across SHL they've just have more Europe than we did in the historical CEB business.
So I think you'd see overall more annualized strength in APAC Middle East and the Americas and offset by a larger piece of the business from Europe.
Obviously if we -- given that that business in Q4 began to show improvement off Q3 that implies that there was more consistency and stability in the European markets in the quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you think that it was a macro stability that helped you improve over there in Europe in SHL? Or was there anything that you guys -- you would put an effort into over there particularly? Yes.
I think -- we talked about this in the Q3 about we are not yet able to gauge how much of Q3 is just distraction.
This was a company that went through a major corporate -- they got acquired in Q3 in a very fast timetable.
We closed the business very fast.
And so there's some portion of distraction factor as we've closed the transaction transition the leadership team put in place plans that you can see starting to wear off in Q4 just people getting back to business.
I was kidding with some of the SHL leaders this week but I had 3 or 4 phone calls with them and every single one of them was about growth.
Every single one of them was about a customer situation we thought we could leverage.
So we're kind of out of talking about organizations et cetera and we're into talking about how we blend our capabilities in ways to create new value for customers.
And I think that's an important trend just getting out of the integration period and into the growth period.
So I don't want to say it was distraction factor beginning to abate but I think that's part of it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Rich can you talk to us about the level of free cash flow we could expect in 2013? Yes.
Well we provided some guidance in terms of what you should expect the ratio of operating cash flow to adjusted net income to be.
And so I think you can do that math and then the CapEx is roughly $29 million to $31 million.
So that would be the way you get free cash flow.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are there any particular items of CapEx in 2013 that are kind of integration type of items that won't -- you don't expect to recur on a go forward basis? Yes.
I think we're expecting about $4 million to $5 million of that total to be related to integration.
Some of that is connectivity for offices on a capital basis and some other system integration efforts that we need to do.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of the timeline in terms of generating new products from the combined CEB SHL product teams I mean how do you guys things think about it in terms of coming out with new products over this coming year? Is there a number of membership launches that you guys are expecting from that? I know Tom your approach has been first of all don't break anything which sounds right.
But just in terms of coming up with something that's combined if you could talk about that.
Yes.
We're already at the first -- we worked real hard to get the first product to the market which was that Challenger add to our sales effectiveness suite.
And early returns for member conversations there had been very promising.
So job 1 is continuing to scale that and get that into more hands and in front of more members.
That's also the most -- as you know sales is easily the most quantifiable element of corporate activity.
So it's a great place where immediate returns great paybacks real precision around better management matters so much.
Beyond that you heard Rich say we're investing significant dollars in new product launches this year and I think some of that will be applying these great new resources to new areas within the -- in the executive suite.
And frankly we have some other ideas that we're going to -- were great ideas prior to the SHL combination that we want to make sure we get to market.
So I think over the year you'll see a balance of new products late of talent analytics and selection assessment products and new product launches elsewhere in the business.
We're -- with the integration period behind us we're very much focused now on bringing new stuff to the market.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Joseph Foresi of Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> My first question here is just on SHL.
Could you give us some idea what your expectations are built into guidance for 2013 growth in that practice? And when can we expect that margin profile to kind of return to corporate average? I think -- I know you talked about the back half of your being better for margins.
But I'm just trying to get a feel for those numbers.
Sure.
I think what we're expecting is that the growth is going to be relatively muted in the early part of the year as we continue to build traction there in the business.
And obviously also it's going to be a tougher comparison relative to the first half of last year.
We would expect better growth in the second half of the year.
And we would hope to get the full year impact into kind of the mid- somewhat high single-digit area which would be the bottom end of our typical multi-year growth range.
As far as the margin expectations go clearly this is a big investment year at SHL as well as in the CEB segment but in particular with the SHL segment so you will see margin compression especially early in the year.
We'd hope to see some improvement as revenue growth improves and we get to see some of the benefit of those investments at the end of the year.
But it's probably next year before you see meaningful improvement on a full year basis there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the sales cycle this year in general how did that fit versus kind of what your expectations were? I mean obviously we can see what the contract value was.
But how did that fit versus your expectations? And obviously Europe was better but I'm just trying to get a feel for how -- versus your expectations and what you see maybe this year versus prior years? Sales cycle for us it tends to be pretty consistent year in year out and the CEB segment is kind of 50 to 70 days more than that in the SHL segment as there's more configuration of the product.
And in the CEB segment the products are configured to be buyable and so it isn't a -- we really try to make the -- compress the sales cycle by not having products that require 150 people in a room in multiple loops.
So we didn't see much change in the sales cycle in either business.
Obviously the sale cycle compresses a little bit as you come to the end of the year and people have certainty about their budgets and they have clarity about what their objectives are for the next year.
And if we're doing our job right we're making it very clear to them that in a world of scarce budget dollars their ability to execute is contingent on their expanding relationship with us.
And then we spend the year after that making sure that's true.
Research Division</strong> It's kind of actually 2 parts.
First going back to the sale cycle I know that maybe financial services in that segment had been sort of lighter before.
Any changes across the segments as far as buying decisions or optimism given sort of as we head into 2013 versus maybe pessimism versus last year or the last couple of years? And then just on the housekeeping side of things can you give some idea what you're expecting on the stock comp and any of the things outside of guidance that make up the non-GAAP number? [Audio Gap] Industry verticals level.
The one I called out which was government was -- is a small sector for us but it was just surprising.
I think it's a powerful testament to that team's ability to create some value.
But the rest of the industry verticals all performed at a pretty healthy level.
When we benchmark budgets I think to oversimplify I think the financial services continues to look at hiring patterns that may be a little different as they try to rationalize some of their business lines.
But broadly most industry verticals have a very similar outlook on 2013 which is modest growth even more modest approach as to hiring people trying to get more out of what they've got grind more profit out of the resources they have.
But on the flip side it's a stable market.
Nobody is in panic mode.
People are -- they've taken their belts they're marching forward with some resolve and that's a good environment for us to sell into.
There isn't much news at the segment level but changes that across different end markets.
And Joe on the stock comp piece our guidance contemplates roughly $13 million of stock comp expense in the year.
And we'll take our last question from Jeff Rosetti of Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> My question was answered.
And at this time I will turn the conference back over to Mr.
Tom Monahan.
Thank you all for calling and/or logging in today.
Rich and I will be out in the road a lot over the next month.
We will be at the Bayer Business Services Conference up in New York later this month and we look forward to seeing many of you there or elsewhere in our travels.
Looking further ahead we hope if you've got your calendars out you can plan to join us here in Waterview for our annual Investor Day on June 14.
We'd like that opportunity to bring you up to speed on the business at a different level of depth to get to meet management and to demo some products.
It's always a good day and we hope people make time for it.
Thanks very much.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to CEB's First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through May 12 by dialing (719) 457-0820.
The replay passcode is 8645042.
The replay will also be available beginning later today and through May 12 at the company's website and at www.earnings.com.
To the extent any non-GAAP financial measure is discussed in today's call you will also find a reconciliation of that measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated according to GAAP by going to the company's website and following the Investors link to yesterday's news release.
You'll also find a PDF of the supporting materials that the company will use in its prepared remarks this morning by going to the Investors page and following the link to the first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Please review the second page of these materials which includes important information about any forward-looking information included in the presentation.
This conference call may also contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements among others regarding CEB's expected quarterly and annual financial performance for fiscal 2013 or beyond.
For this purpose any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing discussions of forecasts estimates targets plans beliefs expectations and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
You are hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by important factors among others set forth in CEB's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its first quarter news release.
Consequently actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the conference over to the company's Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Richard Lindahl.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
This is Rich Lindahl CFO of CEB.
Thank you for calling or logging in to our first quarter 2013 earnings report.
On today's call I will review our first quarter financial results and discuss our 2013 guidance.
Tom Monahan our Chief Executive Officer will then take over to share additional insight on our operations in the quarter and our priorities for the year ahead.
Then we will take your questions.
Please turn to Slide 3 of our presentation and we'll start with a quick summary of today's report.
The headline is that we are off to a good start in 2013.
We enjoyed continued growth in both our CEB and SHL operating segments and have taken important steps forward on our investment plan for the year.
We continue to pursue our growth strategy by leveraging our capabilities even as we navigate around the pockets of volatility that remain in the market.
Overall we are pleased with our progress on the year and comfortable reaffirming our guidance.
Let's turn to Slide 4 for a summary recap of our results.
Revenue was $190.3 million in the first quarter of 2013 an increase of 48.1% on a year-over-year basis.
Adjusted EBITDA margin was 24.2% in the first quarter compared to 26.4% in the first quarter of 2012.
Diluted earnings per share were $0.33 and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increased 26.4% to $0.67 for the first quarter of 2013.
Finally cash flows from operations were $111.4 million in the first quarter which as you know is our seasonally strongest cash flow period.
Now let's turn to Slide 5 to review our key operating metrics which were solid across the board and consistent with the seasonal dynamics of our business.
Along with the fourth quarter the first quarter of the year is typically one of the strongest in terms of total bookings.
However unlike the fourth quarter the first quarter is more heavily weighted towards contract renewals than new business as our teams focus on setting up and building their pipelines for the year ahead.
As a result while we usually see good year-over-year growth in the first quarter on a sequential basis it is common for contract value institution counts and quarterly revenue to decline.
The SHL segment shares many of these same characteristics as the CEB segment and so these outcomes are relatively consistent across the business.
CEB segment contract value at March 31 2013 was $548.7 million up 11.9% versus March 31 2012 and reflecting solid bookings growth over the past year.
For the SHL segment adjusted revenue was $46.6 million in the first quarter an increase of 2.2% compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Growth in adjusted revenue was somewhat constrained by the stronger U.S.
dollar during the quarter.
As on a constant currency basis SHL adjusted revenue growth was 3.6%.
CEB segment wallet retention rate was 100% at March 31 2013 in the normal range and up slightly compared to the 99% the prior year.
SHL segment wallet retention rate was 96% at March 31 2013 also in the normal range and reflective of the strong recurring revenue we see in that part of the business.
Total CEB segment member institutions grew 5.5% to 6 048 in the first quarter and we continue to add institutions in both our middle market and large corporate memberships.
Finally CEB segment contract value per member institution was $90 700 at March 31 a 6.1% increase over the first quarter of 2012.
Please turn now to Slide 6 and I'll review key segment highlights for the quarter.
As you can see our first quarter results benefited from both solid organic gains in our CEB segment and the addition of SHL.
CEB segment revenue was $148.1 million in the first quarter a 15.3% increase compared to $128.5 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Included in the CEB segment is approximately $6.8 million of inorganic revenue from PDRI and so our organic growth rate was 10% in the quarter.
The SHL segment contributed $42.1 million of revenue in the first quarter net of a $4.5 million reduction to reflect the deferred revenue fair value adjustment.
Additional quarterly reductions will be recognized going forward and we currently estimate the total impact on 2013 revenue will be approximately $13 million.
Moving on to operating expenses.
Cost of services in the first quarter increased by $27.3 million versus the first quarter of 2012.
Acquired businesses represented about 78% of this increase with the additional balance coming from continued product development and increased service delivery capacity both consistent with the investment plan for the year we outlined in February.
Member relations and marketing expense increased by $17.5 million in the first quarter versus the prior year period.
Acquisitions were the biggest factor here as well representing about 75% of the change.
The remaining portion is largely driven by increased headcount for our sales and marketing teams which again reflects investments in our targeted priorities.
General and administrative costs in the first quarter were up $9.2 million compared to the prior year with about 94% of the increase due to acquired businesses.
Acquisition-related costs of $1 million in the first quarter were driven by planned integration expenses.
Interest and other income was $1.6 million in the first quarter of 2013 about the same as the first quarter of 2012 with the biggest component in each year being the gain on deferred compensation plan assets.
Interest expense in the first quarter was $6.4 million versus $0.1 million in the prior year period reflecting the interest on the debt raised to fund the SHL acquisition in August of 2012.
Total company adjusted EBITDA margin in the first quarter was 24.2% versus 26.4% in the first quarter of 2012.
At the segment level adjusted EBITDA margin in the quarter was 26.2% for the CEB segment and 17.9% for the SHL segment.
CEB segment margins were relatively flat compared to the prior year and consistent with our typical seasonal investment profile.
Regarding our SHL business.
On our last call we've noted that an area of focus in 2013 is adding capacity to grow in key markets.
Accordingly SHL segment margins declined meaningfully from the fourth quarter largely due to increased costs from new sales staff and other customer-facing headcount.
The timing of annual merit pay increases and muted revenue growth in the quarter also impacted these markets.
Depreciation and amortization in the first quarter was $14.7 million an increase of $9.7 million compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Most of this change is from higher amortization of intangible assets resulting from the SHL acquisition.
Our effective tax rate in the first quarter was 37.2% which is below our prior guidance for taxes in 2013.
As we have previously said the SHL acquisition offers us more avenues to develop and implement tax planning strategies.
The first quarter tax rate reflects progress against some of these opportunities including a one-time 2% benefit to the rate in 2013 and a recurring benefit of approximately 2% that resulted from part of our acquisition tax structuring plan.
Please turn to Slide 7 for select balance sheet and cash flow highlights.
Our seasonally strong first quarter cash flows left us in a healthy financial position with $142 million of cash at March 31.
Accounts receivable was $175.7 million at March 31 which includes $56.1 million for SHL and PDRI.
The current portion of deferred revenue was $396.4 million at March 31 including $53.2 million from SHL and PDRI.
As compared to the prior year CEB segment deferred revenue excluding PDRI increased by 11.2% to $343.2 million a positive leading indicator for CEB segment revenue.
We ended the quarter with $517.6 million of total debt on the balance sheet and we are on track to reach a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of under 2x by the end of the year.
We also maintained access to additional liquidity via the $93 million of undrawn availability under our revolver.
During the quarter we spent $8.8 million on capital expenditures largely on application platform enhancements system infrastructure office buildout costs and integration items.
We repaid $23.3 million of debt outstanding including the remaining $20 million revolver balance as previously disclosed.
We continued to return cash to shareholders by paying out $7.5 million of dividends in the quarter.
As we have previously discussed we plan to use stock buybacks to offset dilution and maintain a constant share count.
We did not have any buyback activity during the first quarter and thus maintain $50 million of availability under the share repurchase program approved by the board earlier this year.
Management will determine the amount and timing of purchases and the authorization will run through December 31 2014.
Now let's move on to our outlook.
The following comments are intended to fall under the Safe Harbor provisions outlined at the beginning of the call and are based on preliminary assumptions which are subject to change over time.
Please turn to Slide 8 which highlights our outlook for the year ahead.
In short we are reaffirming the guidance we initially provided in February.
As we said then we are planning for continued solid revenue growth attractive margin production and increased investment to pursue several short- and long-term growth opportunities that we see in our business.
Starting at the top line we currently expect adjusted revenue of $825 million to $845 million and that the reduction in revenue from the deferred revenue fair value adjustment will be approximately $13 million this year.
So the implied revenue outlook is therefore $812 million to $832 million.
While our first quarter results were solid our more global business has greater top line exposure to currency volatility than in the past and our U.S.
government teams are facing growth headwinds given sequestration and uncertainty over the federal budget.
As a result we still see a wide array of potential outcomes and are currently tracking near the midpoint of our revenue range for the year on a reported U.S.
dollar basis assuming exchange rates remain in about the same place going forward.
We are planning for adjusted EBITDA margin between 25% and 26.5% depending largely on where we land in the revenue range.
Let me give you some color on how we see the remainder of the year playing out in each of our segments.
In the CEB segment we expect a sequential decline in margins in the second quarter before then seeing sequential increases in the third and fourth quarters.
While we expect CEB segment revenue to grow sequentially for the rest of this year we also will have the typical seasonal lift in operating expenses in the second quarter driven by merit pay increases payroll taxes our busiest meeting and event season and additional headcount costs in the product and sales teams.
In the SHL segment we expect margins to remain relatively flat the next 2 quarters before improving in Q4.
As we've said previously we are adding sales and delivery capacity in that part of the business to set ourselves up for better top line growth as we exit 2013.
Accordingly we are planning for another sequential uptick in SHL operating -- segment operating expenses in the second quarter due to the run rate impact of new hires and seasonal increases in event and project delivery expenses.
While costs will likely level off in the third quarter in the near term this trend in expenses will offset anticipated improvements in SHL segment adjusted revenue growth.
For 2013 we expect to incur $8 million to $10 million of acquisition-related costs as we continue to the next phase of SHL integration.
Depreciation and amortization in 2013 is expected to be between $61 million and $63 million and capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $29 million to $31 million including $4 million to $5 million on integration projects.
Let me comment for just a moment about our projected tax rate going forward.
Currently we expect our 2013 effective tax rate to be approximately 37% reflecting the benefits previously described.
We also now expect an ongoing normalized effective tax rate in the range of 37% to 39%.
The effective tax rate is dependent on the distribution of global income and excludes any additional permanent book tax differences that are not determinable at this time such as future foreign currency translation gains or losses or other discrete items that are not currently recognizable under U.S.
GAAP.
We are monitoring international regulatory developments especially in the United Kingdom which appears to be moving toward lower tax rates in the years ahead.
We will also continue to pursue strategies which will allow us to operate in a tax efficient manner.
To recap through the first quarter we are very much on track.
Solid overall bookings combined with planned growth investments to produce the outcomes we expected in the first quarter.
At the same time we have seen some volatility in currencies and headwinds from sequestration.
So full year revenue is currently tracking near the midpoint of our range.
We are also continuing with our 2013 investment plans which may push margins below the midpoint of our range.
As an offset we now expect a more favorable tax rate for the year.
So taking all of these puts and takes into account we are maintaining our outlook for 2013 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share in a range of $2.85 to $3.15.
And as you'd expect the distribution of quarterly earnings will follow the margin trends I described just a minute ago.
That's it for the financial summary.
I'll now turn the call over to Tom who will share more color on our operations and growth strategies in the year ahead.
Thanks Rich.
Let me add my welcome to everyone who's joined us today.
We're eager to update you on our start to 2013 and our exciting work to advance the business.
As Rich outlined in his remarks we delivered a solid performance in the first quarter that positions us well to meet our commitments for 2013.
Let me pick up the story on Slide 9.
The solid start was in the context of an operating environment that is still mixed.
The first quarter was punctuated by events like the Cyprus banking crisis and the U.S.
federal government sequestration.
Despite such turbulence corporate leaders are staying in the course they first charted coming out of the global financial crisis.
In the face of low growth in developed markets they are seeking to grind out modest top line growth and drive productivity gains.
You can see these themes repeat in the Q1 earnings calls we've already heard from the largest companies who are showing healthy profit despite seeing revenues pinched by Europe and currency.
As we've noted in previous calls companies are eager for help in optimizing the allocation of people and budgets while ensuring that operations are at a best-practice standard.
The good news is that we have an ever increasing portfolio of resources to help them set direction for their functions select and align talent to accomplish their goals and measure and interpret results.
Our progress to date indicates that we're positioned against areas of real need and that our teams are executing at a high standard.
Let me take a moment to share several Q1 performance highlights.
I'll then spend a few minutes updating you on progress we made on each of our core priorities delivering surplus value to members leading the analytic transformation of talent management and achieving brand recognition that matches our global impact.
Starting with the performance highlights we're pleased that the majority of our end markets have begun the year with a healthy organic growth rate.
Obviously North America large corporate results were strong and important to achieving our overall number but a few others have stood out.
We continue to see year-over-year strength in our middle market business as that team brings compelling products to a very large addressable market.
Our teams in Asia Pacific also had a good quarter sustaining a multiyear growth rate above our corporate average.
One other notable area of strength in Q1 was our financial services vertical product line.
Although this sector of the global economy remains challenged our teams performed well with targeted offerings aligned against areas of real need such as product and channel management and technology selection and implementation.
We also some areas -- saw some areas that lagged to the corporate growth rate.
Europe continues to face economic headwinds but our business remains stable.
On our last earnings call we showed that the European team engineered a solid fourth quarter performance but was still behind the corporate average.
We continue to see our teams there make progress in Q1 but don't yet expect this business to contribute to the overall corporate growth rate particularly in U.S.
dollar terms and current exchange rates.
Still even as we wait for a broader momentum to take hold we are seeing bright spots within our business like the performance of the SHL team in Continental Europe.
As Rich said we also find it difficult to grow those product lines that focus on the U.S.
federal sector.
We talked to the past few quarters about fast growth in our government business but we weren't counting on more of that this year.
With U.S.
federal government sequestration taking hold in Q1 it's clear that the headwinds on near-term performance have strengthened.
As 2013 unfolds we'll get a better sense of whether this is a timing issue as clients confront the sequester or whether we are confronting a permanently smaller opportunity.
Looking forward it's important to keep in mind that this sector represents only about 5% of total revenues across CEB's subscription products and PDRI.
And moreover we enjoy a very strong competitive position as federal managers confront challenging new problems with much smaller budgets than they're used to.
Finally all of our content domains got off to good starts in 2013.
Two areas of continued strength in opportunity were technology and sales.
Corporate IT is clearly undergoing a fundamental restructuring.
We remain well positioned to support companies navigating this transition through strong insight and innovative services.
Sales effectiveness also remains critical to companies trying to get more sales out of their current team to drive growth in the tough economy.
Our leading edge content has provided a strong foundation for new products and services that hardwire these insights in the companies.
Finally we remain excited about talent management as a critical area of focus for executives and the  distinctive strength for CEB.
I'll share more about our work here in a moment.
In summary I'm pleased with what our teams delivered in the first quarter.
We made a solid start to the year and set ourselves up for success in 2013.
We'll continue to track against our commitments in the coming months while working to build a strong future for our business.
Let me now share some of those highlights by updating you on our core priorities.
Please turn to Slide 10 for an update on our first priority: delivering surplus business value.
Our goal is to ensure that our members see surplus business value from their investments of time and money with our firm.
By business value we mean growing recognition reduce -- growing revenue reducing costs reducing risk and ultimately transforming the organization.
To deliver these outcomes we developed uniquely valuable insights into the levers of business value link these resources to member decisions through compelling advice instruction and technology and create demand through inspired sales and service.
When we do this well we create game-changing outcomes for our members at a fraction of the cost of other sources of advice and support.
And we enable them to hardwire our solution into their own organizations.
The clearest measure of our progress against this goal is our ability to keep and grow our relationships with members.
As Rich mentioned Q1 has some distinctive contours for CEB.
We booked roughly 30% of our target for the year in the quarter substantially over which renewal activity as many of our largest customers renew their portfolio.
Our sales teams usually confront a smaller new sales opportunity as they rebuilt their pipelines after Q4.
Our metrics for the quarter reflect this.
With wallet retention at 100% and contract value per member up by more than 6% we are clearly off to a strong start.
We cannot deliver these results without high-value content that deliver superior business value.
One highlight of the first quarter was groundbreaking new work we published on information security management.
While the importance of this topic is underscored by a constant flow of security breach headlines CEB brings a unique perspective.
Our strong franchise in IT and depth in related fields such as legal and compliance gives us a 360-degree view of the operational reality that our members confront.
Our team found that the real news was buried beneath the headlines.
The issue is not so much the mounting number and severity of security breaches but rather the new centrality of information to corporate strategies.
79% of our member companies now report that information-based strategies are core to their corporate agenda.
The most common of these data mining social media mobility and cloud-based architectures demand freer rather than more restrictive loads of information.
The fact as you can see from the right-hand side of the slide current security policies impose a huge cost on the business in terms of wasted employee effort in time lost innovation and project shortfalls.
And companies still face millions of dollars of direct loss.
This is an area where the cure at least it's currently administered is worse than the disease.
To help our members manage risks while maximizing the business value of information our team created a new set of risk governance models and tools.
The member CIOs General Counsels information security officers and strategists have reported immediate value for being able to match their information management strategies through their risk appetites.
One member a top 20 global bank reported that by "Reorganizing information risk management to focus on business risks and move accountability to business partners we not only strip weeks out of our project cycle but also substantially improve our risk posture." In addition to developing must-have content we're also focusing on several areas mentioned on our last call including investing in talent and performance managed benchmarking tools advancing technology that ties our resources to executive workflows and investing in people and processes to generate world-class service for our members.
Please turn to Slide 11 for an update on our second priority: leading the analytic transformation of talent management.
For some time now we've described with excitement the opportunity to help senior executives manage talent with increasing rigor and analytical depth.
With all the hype around big data we see executive teams looking for new tools and insights to manage their most important assets.
And CEB is uniquely positioned to support them.
We've long focused on talent management topics in our research but our acquisitions of Valtera and SHL in 2012 significantly advanced our ability to provide the necessary data and tools to fully unlock the power of these insights.
Our job has been to effectively integrate these assets into a broader business and bring our collective value to bear on CEB member needs.
We're pleased with our progress.
We've been disciplined in our approach to these integrations including an early focus on giving the right leadership team across this business area.
We're now past that stage and we are pleased with both the capability and energy of the people we have in place.
It's a strong mix of leaders staying on key SHL team members stepping up and experienced CEB leaders rotating into this product line.
Overall retention engagement and capability of this team have exceeded our expectations.
We're thrilled by our newfound depth and reach.
We also have largely completed the organizational integration of our back-office functions.
Completing these foundational activities allows us to concentrate on the real work of bringing our large set of capabilities to bear on the world's leading companies.
And there are 3 areas of particular focus.
The first is simply ramping growth in the business.
Our tactics here have been to intensively manage upstream sales and delivery activities and to invest more heavily in sales and services capacity in key markets.
While there is some lag in realizing the returns on these ladder investments we're making good progress as we see healthy growth in key leading indicators in the sales pipeline.
And importantly we see great receptivity to the technology and subscription offerings.
Overall we are on course with plans for the year and we're excited for the future.
The second area of focus is leveraging our broader footprint to bring compelling new propositions to market.
I'm excited both about our opportunity here and our progress to date.
Most notable is the entry of the Challenger Selection &amp; Assessment product which has gotten off to a very fast start.
This validates our thesis that executives outside of HR are eager for help with key talent issues.
We see many opportunities like Challenger Selection &amp; Assessment to provide powerful integrated talent management support to the companies we serve.
You can see the categories of opportunity to the right of the slide.
The third critical component of this effort is integrated packaging of our resources so that members know how best they can drive value in their organization.
You can see in our goal to the bottom right hand of the slide.
We've kicked off an important work stream to this end.
Over the next few quarters we'll integrating the SHL solutions into the broader CEB brand architecture.
In the process we'll communicate forcefully with the market and our membership about how we can help them.
We look forward to updating you more on this and the broader talent management story in the coming quarters.
Please turn to slide 12 for an update on our third priority: achieving brand recognition that matches our global impact.
We know that a strong CEB brand is vital to having impact on member companies.
Ultimately it also translates to real financial returns for us.
We can drive increased cross-sales and new sales as members continually associate great business outcomes with our work.
We're investing to build a clear compelling story about CEB in all of our markets with work underway in 2013 on 3 important dimensions.
In addition to the SHL rebranding work I just mentioned we are also raising the visibility of the CEB brand through simple and consistent articulations of our capabilities and impact.
And we are continuing to build an elite talent brand.
A particular focus of our branding strategy at this time of year is our hosting and participating in a range of high-profile events.
You can see the different forms this takes to the right-hand side of the page.
As you already know we routinely host gatherings of senior executives to shape our work share best practices and move our ideas into their organizations.
The classic format for this is 20-or-so CXOs in a business school classroom or board room no vendors media or junior staff just senior executives wrestling with real shared problems using our unique data and insights to solve them.
Even as the business has become ever more digital in fact maybe because it has become ever more digital we find demand for this sort of exchange to be really strong.
We will now do this more than 800 times this year all over the world.
In addition this regular series of retreats we now host or participate in a number of larger-scale and higher-profile events.
You can see these to the middle of the page.
These serve us an opportunity to gather senior stakeholders across teams including potential members across a variety of domains or markets to examine pressing challenges.
These events are larger in scale think hundreds not dozens of attendees and feature a much broader array of participants.
And unlike our senior executive retreats which are entirely off the record these events explicitly aim to create public dialogue.
Let me share a few examples.
In April we hosted a sold-out financial services technology conference in a major event in our sales and marketing area focused on selling and serving small businesses through digital channels.
Looking forward in May senior consumer marketing advertising and product executives will gather in Miami for CEB's Iconosphere.
And we're hosting a major SHL LINK here in Washington D.C.
next week.
For the rest of the year our schedule is packed with our teams hosting major events like their B2B Sales and Marketing Summit in Las Vegas and our IT and HR summits on both sides of the Atlantic.
We also maintain a presence at some major industry events.
Most notably we had a major presence at the Society for Industrial Organizational Psychology event in Houston where CEB researchers led 63 of the panels.
We're also very proud that some of our top researchers are gaining global recognition for their work.
Among those recognized this year are Nancy Tippins who won the SIOP distinctive professional achievement award for her pioneering work in using technology to help companies make people decisions.
Across the year we'll match our own event schedule with key external events like HR Tech.
Each of these opportunities helps highlight what is unique about CEB.
We ground our work in deep analytic rigor unmatched network breadth and cross-functional perspective and link it to high-value member work and decisions to innovative technology and inspired service.
In addition to ensuring that our brand stands for tremendous impact on members we also aim to build a brand that stands for unique opportunity for exceptional talent.
Our goal is to attract and select top people by creating a compelling employment value proposition that hinges on first getting great people and then choosing only the best.
Then we offer them an opportunity to work with other talented people challenge an unparalleled customer base and pursue intensive skill development.
I'm pleased that we saw great outcomes on all of these fronts this quarter.
We enjoyed strong retention of our best people and saw robust pipelines of new applicants.
And we continue to invest in rich training and development programs to accelerate the development of our highest performers.
Across the board our talent metrics remain strong but our ambitions run higher.
We're tapping new sources of talent to build our sales presence globally and we are continuing to engage with our highest performers to create new compelling opportunities for CEB careers.
So to sum up on Page 13.
We're off to a very solid start on the year growing the business and getting our key strategic investments in place.
We're pleased to be on track to an ambitious set of full year goals despite a still murky economic picture.
And as always we're pleased to work with such a driven talented group of people to create great outcomes for the world's best companies.
I'm energized by such great colleagues and proud of what we are accomplishing together.
We have much work ahead in the next 3 quarters but I believe we have the right momentum in place to achieve impressive goals.
We'll now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Joseph Foresi from Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> My first question here is just on SHL.
I think we have talked about kind of a return to growth at the end of this year.
I'm wondering if you could just comment -- I know you talked about it in your prepared remarks about how that business integration is going? And is there any change in what your previous guidance was for the end of the year? And maybe you can remind us of where we stand with that? Joe we're happy with how SHL got out of the gate.
I think on balance our view is that that business is on track.
We've had a real disciplined approach to integration tried to move the organization first through the transition period then laying the groundwork through some additional investments to create growth.
And we're already seeing early pretty good returns from that.
I think the business is on track.
We feel great about both the growth opportunity that we face in that business alone and some of the opportunities we see on the new product front.
Again we've been very pleased by our first cross-business new product offering which was an entry into the sales space.
That had both great internal collaboration to make it happen but also terrific market receptivity.
So we think that business is on track for a good year.
Joe just to be clear there's no change in our expectation for what SHL is going to do during the year.
We expect more muted growth in the first half of the year and better growth as we exit the year.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And I would imagine margins also coming back after this quarter correct? We -- at SHL we expect margins to remain relatively flat in the second and third quarters to where they are in the first quarter with improvements in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then just moving on to some of your commentary about the U.S.
government and some of the currency headwinds that you're facing.
I know you pointed towards more the midpoint of the guidance.
But could you give us a little more color either quantitatively or qualitatively around sort of where we stand with that versus your initial guidance? I know you gave the percentage of revenue from government and a little color around that but I wonder if you could just dig a little deeper into those 2 areas? Let me talk the government piece and I'll ask Rich to comment a bit on the currency piece.
Our positioning in government as you know is strong but small.
It's about give or take 5% of revenue and as with most of our businesses these are typically recurring contracts multiyear relationships targeted on pretty high-value levers in the budget.
Early in the year we had seen it's difficult to grow to get someone to try to do a new thing and that affects everything we're doing in the government.
So where they're using us we've got an opportunity to keep that relationship alive and feel good about it.
But our ability to go crack open a new budget when someone keeps hearing from their boss sequester sequester sequester has been difficult.
We're still figuring out whether that's a Q1 activity as people digest the news and try to figure out how they're going to operate or whether it just means it's going to flow through the year.
I don't think we have enough comfort there as to whether we're going to struggle to grow the business all year long.
But in the near term finding growth there has been challenging.
We like our competitive position in the medium term a lot if these guys are needing to look for new sources of support and help at a much lower cost than they're used to having these massive projects to support.
But in the near term cracking open new budgets is difficult.
And Joe this is Rich.
On currencies the most dominant influence is the relative dollar strength U.S.
dollar strength against the British pound.
You've seen that rate bounce around a lot just as of the beginning of the year.
I think we started the year at about GBP 1.62 to dollars.
It got as low as GBP 1.48 or GBP 1.49.
As recently as a couple of weeks ago it was about GBP 1.52 and now I think today it's somewhere in the GBP 1.55 range.
So it's bouncing around.
I would say as a rule of thumb for the rest of the year for the final 9 months of the year of every $0.01 of movement will influence revenue by about $1 million on the full year.
So that just gives you a little bit of a rule of thumb.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then last one for me.
We're about a quarter of the way through the year.
Wonder if you could just give us some qualitative commentary about sort of how you feel about the business.
Obviously you've reaffirmed guidance but are deal closures happening at the same rate that you expected? Is pricing holding stable? Have you seen any changes in the deal sizes? I guess I'm just wondering as we come through the first quarter obviously outside of guidance what you're seeing in the market? I mean I'd say Q1 felt like Q1 in many respects.
It's a big renewal quarter.
Obviously the strength in the metrics indicates that our teams got out and did a great job creating relationships that endure and sustain and secured some of our biggest relationships to go forward for the coming years.
So we feel good.
There are pockets of some volatility that we discussed.
There are some pockets where member demand is spiking and the net effect of all that is we're on track for the year.
And we'll take our next question from Tim McHugh with William Blair &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> First one is just PDRI and is that business a little more influenced by the government and is that when -- why that was down a little bit? And I guess just how that should influence what we expect for that going forward? Yes.
PDRI is substantially almost all of the U.S.
federal government.
So yes that's -- yes they are obviously holding their own but it's harder to find that next opportunity for growth.
We're hopeful as the year unfolds.
It's a great set of resources that are a very valuable toolkit for federal managers confronting some new challenges.
But in this quarter people were definitely a little quiet and a little reticent to go try the next new thing.
They were trying to sort out their own new budget reality.
So yes the PDRI is a government-focused business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to be clear on Europe is what you're saying that they were still -- was it still up year-over-year but just not near the corporate average? Or I guess is Europe flat up down a little I guess at this point? Yes it's -- the short answer is it's hard to tell in Q1 because Q1 is such a heavy renewal quarter.
As we said we saw modest growth in Europe in Q4 for the first time in several quarters.
Q1 is such a heavy renewal quarter.
It's hard to even get a picture of growth prospects for the year.
I'd say to give you some color so far 2013 feels more like Q4 2012 than the rest of '12.
We did see some bright spots notably the SHL continental team showed good momentum.
But we think on balance for the year we hope for modest growth.
It's going to be difficult to grow.
We don't think they'll catch up with the corporate average this year based on what we've seen.
I think there's the opportunity to generate some modest growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then SHL so you commented that Continental Europe is a little better.
I guess as I look at the last 3 quarters it seems like while the growth rate is not back to the level you want it's come up a little bit to year-over-year the constant currency growth rate.
Is that because the continental more so than you accelerating the growth in the U.S.
or somewhere else? I think broadly the dynamics in all of our business is looking more or less the same by region.
The one outlier we saw was more of momentum in the continent than you would've expected if you read the newspaper.
And while -- I'll be honest here one swallow does not a spring makes so I'd be careful to over generalize about the health of the European economy because of the performance of our team on the ground there.
Yes I don't think there were any economic tailwinds helping out.
I just think the team did a great job executing it.
It proves that when teams are doing a great job executing even a pretty difficult economy can be a growth opportunity for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But is it fair you're yet to really see some of the initiatives to try and accelerate the growth in the U.S.
SHL? That's more of something that's on the comment of future then.
Yes I think the real potential given SHL's underpenetration in this market realizing that potential lies ahead for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it did sound like you expect sequential growth going into Q2? Yes.
Some sequential growth yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the last question I had.
Just for the legacy CEB the contract value growth has been a little bit stronger than kind of the organic growth we saw for -- or organic revenue growth that we saw for Q1.
Is there anything with that -- was some of that just timing? Or is there I guess were some of the non -- kind of nonsubscription parts of the revenue a little slower than the kind of subscription piece? Yes.
It's largely timing issues Tim.
It's -- we've talked about the business mix shifting a little bit towards some more of these premium services where the revenue recognition is not as evenly distributed as the core subscription products.
And so that's really the main reason.
Research Division</strong> Is there -- I mean is there a timing then throughout the year where we would expect that that should catch up or is it -- if it's predictable when it will? Yes.
I mean I think when we look at it on a full year basis which is really the way we manage the business we expect that the trend should be pretty consistent for the full year.
We'll take our next question from Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tom what was the sales force growth at SHL in the quarter? I don't think we've discussed it but you can safely assume looking at the margin it was good and faster than the corporate growth rate.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean are we talking -- can you give like percentage-wise? Are you looking to double it? Give us an idea over the year.
It really varies by market.
Assume though the biggest opportunity for the ramp is in North America if you look at the size of that business relative to let's say even just CEB's relationships with HR executives in that market.
That's going to be probably a multiple of the corporate growth rate.
In other markets it's a percentage and basis points above the corporate growth rates.
So Americas is going to be the big outlier there and that will be a multiple of the corporate growth rate.
Research Division</strong> And did you see growth in SHL kind of pick up through the quarter? In other words as you guys started at the end of the year kind of worked out the personnel issues with the acquisition? Did you start to see that the growth pick up through the quarter? I don't know if it was much a news within the quarter.
I think if you think about the quarter the investments aren't going to have any impact on the quarter.
And these are new people arriving.
They're showing up in the budget and at a desk before they show up in the market.
So it was more just great execution from day 1 by the team that was there on Jan 1 getting out and doing a good work to execute.
So yes I don't think there was any particular news in the quarter.
In that business as in all of our businesses you build a pipeline across the quarter and you keep trying to monetize as the quarter goes.
So the end of the quarter's always a little busier but I don't think there's any particular news vis-a-vis previous quarters there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of new product development schedule I mean for CEB and SHL in a joint way do you have like a number of products that you're planning to roll out over the year? You talked about one that you guys worked on last year.
There are a new number of new memberships that you're planning to come out with? Can you just give us a little more detail there? Yes.
In some sense it'll be hard to give you a perfect number.
And that some of these become adds to a comprehensive suite where we're already in market with and it'll get sold as a portion of a broader package.
On balance I think we try to target one major new offer every quarter give or take.
Some quarters we have 2.
Some quarters we have 0 but that's roughly roughly the pace that we target.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I'm seeing -- that's for the combined CEB-SHL I'm seeing in the HR space for the quarter? Well I'd say in the talent management space more broadly.
If you think about a good chunk of the opportunity is building talent management capabilities.
Let's say a head of sales as we've shown can use them to manage their organization effectively.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then Rich is there a change in the timing of free cash flow over the year because of the SHL acquisition? In other words is there -- are we going to see a little bit more of a smoothing? Not in any meaningful way.
I think obviously we're planning on higher CapEx this year.
And that ended up being maybe a little more front-loaded in the first quarter so that had some impact on free cash flow in the first quarter.
But on balance you shouldn't see a significant impact.
And we'll take our next question from Gary Bisbee from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I guess on SHL just 2 more questions on that.
What goes into the commentary that you expect that to rebound in the fourth quarter? Is it just a sense of what you think the sales cycle will be to get these new assets you put in last fall and this winter up and running? How much confidence do you have that? Is that backed by the history of what the sales cycle look like? Or is it other factors? I guess I'm just trying to gauge the conviction or confidence that that happens if the macro remained somewhat challenged like it is today.
The way -- when we think about building a plan we look at the inputs the outputs we're trying to get.
When we look -- when we target growth what we look at is do we have the sales capacity in place? Are they adequately skilled motivated et cetera to go make that happen? And then secondly can we monitor their activities to see if they are touching enough customers generating enough new contracts? And the plan for the year was to get people on the ground early in the year get them up the learning curve and continue to keep working to create more moments of impact in the marketplace.
And as of today both the number in caliber of people we've brought in to the business and so far the activity of the sales and service organization probably to generate moments of impact and create invoices and sales momentum et cetera both look good.
So we've got lots of distance to travel before the end of the year.
But measuring what we can measure today and knowing the caliber of people we've got we've got confidence that business will continue to show momentum across the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then have you worked out or can you share with us how your existing sales force in the core CEB business will be incentivized or encouraged to make introductions and help the SHL product? And do they feel like that sort of a nuisance for them? Or is that an opportunity where they can either make money or at least feel like they're driving more with their customers? We obviously think selling -- particularly in North America selling a broader set of services including the SHL products to our existing installed base is a huge opportunity particularly even where they are underpenetrated.
We ran some modest pilots in Q4 to see what vector would look like.
So we're pleased with the results.
I think we've -- it gives us good clear focus for this year.
Two things that we'll be working on one is the rebrand which gives us an opportunity to go out and explain ourselves to our customers in a very effective manner.
So there are teams explaining the conversation.
Obviously they'll have incentives to do that et cetera.
And then secondly it's also important that sales teams outside of HR have new packages to talk about.
We're already doing that in sales.
So we've run some pilots.
We have confidence we can target the right things.
It is important -- we wanted to make sure -- we also don't want to be in a position where we distract teams from what they're already supposed to be doing.
We're being very careful and very focused in terms of how we roll these things out.
So no one sells the new thing at the expense of selling or renewing the great thing they already have.
So we're trying to be very planful about how we add these capabilities and these opportunities to our existing sales team.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then lastly just outside of SHL how is the whole premium service model evolved over the last year? You talked a lot more about it at last year's Investor Day than we'd heard in the past.
Is that becoming -- and I know it's typically been lower margin but is that becoming a more material revenue contributor? Or is it still really in its infancy? Yes if you look at the total business across both segments it's about 20 -- and what we call premium service is about 20% of what we do.
Obviously a good chunk of that is in SHL where when someone chooses their solution there's a start-up project of sorts to get it linked to the right systems and choose what populations they want and what skill bases they're trying to engineer.
So on balance on a percentage basis more of it's in the SHL business than in the CEB business.
In the CEB business the core philosophy of the business hasn't changed.
We like renewable scalable subscription products.
We have found there are places where members ask for a little bit extra help either installing something or interpreting something or doing a little bit of planning using some data we've helped them with.
And we've put in place some services that allow us to do that in a profitable way that both help them to get better impact from the work they're already buying and to some degree gain broader exposure to what else we can do for them.
So we're comfortable with its positioning in our business.
And I don't think you'll see it swing wildly as a share of the business over the coming quarters or year.
Research Division</strong> But what about the concept of getting a basic technology or offering within the subscription but then having an upsell to a more detailed one? I know there was a talk a while ago with the Genesee product and surveying that you could get some basic one.
If you want to do it more you had to pay more.
Is that material or is that still really small at this point? Yes it's -- I think you'd find it in all of our domains at this point that there's -- you saw us talk about the IT Roadmap Builder product which is an extension of some of the work we've done in architecture and infrastructure.
It's the next level of impact in depth.
You've seen in HR where we have the very light tools you can use to do workforce planning and then you can upgrade to the CEB Valtera heavier set of tools.
You see it in sales where there's some light work you can do to measure sales force productivity and you can upgrade it to heavier packages that help you work on productivity skill building selection and assessment.
So absolutely it's a key piece of what we do.
Now some of that flows through as a premium service.
Some just looks like a subscription.
So it's not -- not all of that shows up in premium services.
And not all of it is anything other than just a core subscription.
We'll take our next question from Ato Garrett with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions for me.
One I want to confirm that the contract value growth was all that organic? Was there any acquisition left in there? And then two when you're looking at the additional investments that you're going to be making for SHL are those going to be spread evenly through the balance of the year? Or are they going to be lumpier in 1 quarter versus another? Yes Ato this is Rich.
As far as the contract value question that's -- all of that is organic.
We anniversary-ed the Valtera acquisition so that's all considered organic at this point.
As far as the investments in SHL safe to assume there's a bigger push in adding headcount earlier in the year than later.
We -- you certainly saw some of that reflected in the first quarter margins.
You'll see some more of it in the second quarter.
And then you should see that expense profile more level after the second quarter.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our final question from David Ridley-Lane with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Just wondering across the 5 end markets where are you seeing the strongest demand and maybe some weaker demand? And I'm just kind of curious is HR really outperforming with the addition of SHL or is it a bit too early to see that? Yes I think across the 5 domains there wasn't a ton of news.
I remarked in the call that obviously talent management continues to be an important theme both in HR and beyond.
Some of the things we've done to lift the SHL data out and drop it in the places like R&amp;D or sales end up animating not only the core HR business but helping some of the others.
We also saw a great demand as I said in my remarks there's been a wholesale rethinking of corporate IT underway for the past couple of years and that's really helped our technology team as they've been delivering some great value to members as they think through their organizations and structures.
We've seen the sales area within sales and marketing.
I guess B2B marketing is well and supported.
That's been very strong.
Members are trying to find growth any way they can and they realize that their existing sales organization performing at a very high level is a very efficient way to think about growing.
So they've turned to us for a lot of help and that team has rolled out a lot of great products and services to support it.
So there was no -- and obviously the other domains are very strong.
So the talent management theme plays out beyond just HR.
And broadly we're seeing pretty even performance across the end markets.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then maybe one for Rich.
Based on first quarter's adjusted EBITDA margin your commentary for second quarter it sounds like second half is going to be critical to getting into the full year range guidance.
Is this is mostly revenue leverage? Or are there some actual cost reductions that will be coming out in the second half? You won't see cost reductions other than in the sense of we have some seasonal patterns that go through the year which you've seen in the business in the past.
So cost will certainly fluctuate.
But the seasonal impact will probably be the more dominant factor there.
Certainly revenue leverage is going to be important.
We do expect sequential revenue growth as we go through the rest of the year.
And -- but having said that we're also on track with our investment plan for the year and the thesis that we put together for making this a stronger business as possible as we exit 2013 and go into 2014.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And do you have any stats you could share on the progress of cross-selling SHL into your legacy CEB customer base vis-a-vis? The member count that you gave us is just CEB members so it's a bit difficult to tell how that's progressing.
I -- we don't have any stats and if we did they'd be small.
Our goal has been focused small pilots.
And the goal of the SHL team has been given they already had great opportunity in front of them to execute on that first.
So you'll see that cross-selling grow particularly as the rebranding and remessaging takes hold.
But right now we don't have any stats.
And if they did they would -- they'd in the dozens not the millions in terms of number of clients not dollars.
And we've had one final question come in from Tobey Sommer with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could quantify what the currency impact was in the quarter? And relative to I guess the pound which you identified as having a relationship to revenue what your currency assumption is going forward in the guidance? Sure Tobey.
This is in terms of the impact on a year-over-year basis we said the SHL adjusted revenue growth was 2.2%.
On a constant currency basis it would have been 3.6%.
So there was about a 1.4% drag due to currencies.
And that's roughly $600 000.
And as far as going forward we're assuming that it stays relevantly constant to where it was in the first quarter which was about 1.55% give or take.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Relative to the tax rate could you kind of size the opportunity over time? You gave some commentary for this year but what sort of movement and improvement could you have in the tax rate over a longer period? Yes I think that remains to be seen on a few levels.
I think certainly if you look at -- we're at 37.2% for this year.
That's net of a one-time benefit of 2%.
So if we haven't had that one-time factor it would've been more like 39% this year.
We've said that as we see it today the current view on normalized tax rate is in a range of 37% to 39% so you could see it steadily improve over the next couple of years.
There's always a possibility that there could be new discrete items come in that could move it up or down one way or the other.
As we identify additional strategies or if there are additional developments in foreign jurisdictions in particular in the United Kingdom which has signaled rate decreases as we go forward over the next couple of years.
And that can also help influence the tax rate as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And your -- what sort of free cash flow is implied this year relative to your EPS guidance now that you've had kind of a quarter of cash flow under your belt? And do you expect CapEx declines next year to help cash flow? So we don't put out an explicit free cash flow metric or guidance.
What we've talked about is operating cash flow to adjusted net income being in the range of 1.5x and capital expenditures on a normalized basis being roughly about 3% of revenue going forward.
So we are a somewhat more technology-intensive business now particularly with the addition of SHL and also with the services that we are introducing and that Tom has talked about earlier in the call.
So CapEx in that kind of 3%.
Maybe some years even a little bit higher than that of revenue is certainly in our field of vision at this point.
And then you can do your free cash flow calculation off of that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question for me.
You kind of talked about SHL margin progression quarterly as being flat for a couple of more quarters probably and then some improvement in the fourth quarter.
Based on that kind of expectation what do you see as an opportunity for '14? Because I know we're early days in SHL and those first few quarters that you own it won't really reflect what it will look like longer-term.
Yes.
I think we're certainly not ready to talk about 2014 at this point of the year.
What we've talked about previously is that on average we think the consolidated EBITDA margin can improve roughly 25 basis points per year.
There's no reason to change that expectation at this point.
So that's what we're going to stick with.
And with no further questions I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Monahan for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks everybody for calling in or logging in to today's event.
Rich and I look forward to seeing many of you in our travels over the next few months.
In May we'll be at the JPMorgan TMT Conference in Boston and the Bank of America Merrill Lynch business services event in New York.
And in June we'll be at the William Blair Growth Stock Conference in Chicago.
As we shared on our last call we also look forward to hosting people for our Annual Investor Day on June 14 in our Washington D.C.
office.
The event will be simulcast over the web but if you're interested in attending in person please contact Rich for additional information.
We look forward to keeping you up to date in the CEB story across the remainder of the year.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to CEB's Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through August 10 by dialing (719) 457-0820.
The replay passcode is 5553063.
The replay will also be available beginning later today and through August 10 at the company's website.
To the extent any non-GAAP financial measures are discussed in today's call you will also find a reconciliation of that measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated according to GAAP by going to the company's website and following the Investors link via yesterday's news release.
You'll also find a PDF of the supporting materials that the company will use in the prepared remarks this morning by going to the Investors page and following the link to the second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Please review the second page of these materials which includes important information about forward-looking information included in the presentation.
This conference call may also contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements among others regarding CEB's expected quarterly and annual financial performance for fiscal 2013 or beyond.
For this purpose any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing discussions of forecasts estimates targets plans beliefs expectations and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
You are hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by important factors among others set forth in CEB's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its second quarter news release.
Consequently actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether with as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the conference over to the company's Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Richard Lindahl.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
I'm Rich Lindahl CFO of CEB.
Thank you for calling or logging into our second quarter 2013 earnings report.
On today's call I'll review our second quarter financial results and discuss our 2013 guidance.
Tom Monahan our Chief Executive Officer will then takeover to share additional insight on our operations in the quarter and our priorities for the year ahead.
Then we'll take your questions.
Please turn to Slide 3 of our presentation and we'll start with a quick summary of today's report.
We posted another solid quarter that validates the strategy we shared with you at the beginning of the year and discussed in more detail at our Investor Day in June.
Our results were driven by double-digit organic revenue growth.
We also were pleased to see the initial returns on the tactical investments we've made in the SHL segment which posted high single-digit growth.
We continued to deploy growth investments which as expected led to sequential increases in operating expenses.
And overall we're pleased with our progress and reaffirming our current guidance with risks and opportunities still balanced toward the midpoint of our ranges.
Let's turn to Slide 4 for a summary recap of our results.
Revenue was $204.6 million in the second quarter of 2013 an increase of 50.8% on a year-over-year basis.
Adjusted EBITDA margin was 24.6% in the second quarter compared to 25.9% in the second quarter of 2012.
Diluted earnings per share were $0.40 and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increased 32.7% to $0.73 for the second quarter of 2013.
Now let's turn to Slide 5 to review our key operating metrics which were solid across-the-board.
I'll share some of the numbers with you now and Tom will add more color at the market level in his remarks.
CEB segment contract value at June 30 2013 was $567.2 million up 10.6% versus June 30 2012 and reflecting solid bookings growth over the past year.
For the SHL segment adjusted revenue was $50.7 million in the second quarter an increase of 8.6% compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Growth was only modestly impacted by exchange rates during the quarter.
As on a constant-currency basis SHL adjusted revenue growth was 8.7%.
CEB segment Wallet retention rate was 99% at June 30 2013 in the normal range and down slightly compared to 100% in the prior year.
SHL segment Wallet retention rate was 96% at June 30 also in the normal range and continuing to reflect the strong recurring revenue in that part of our business.
Total CEB segment member institutions grew 4.7% to 6 189 in the second quarter and we continue to add institutions in both our middle market and large corporate memberships.
Finally CEB segment Contract Value per member institution was $91 600 at June 30 a 5.6% over the second quarter of 2012.
Please turn to Slide 6 and I'll review key segment highlights for the quarter.
As you can see our second quarter results benefited from both solid organic gains in our CEB segment and the addition of SHL.
CEB segment revenue was $156.8 million in the second quarter a 15.5% increase compared to $135.7 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Included in the CEB segment is approximately $6.3 million of inorganic revenue from PDRI.
And so our organic growth rate was 10.9% in the quarter.
The SHL segment contributed $47.8 million of revenue in the second quarter net of a $3 million reduction to reflect the deferred revenue fair value adjustment.
Additional quarterly reductions will be recognized going forward.
And we currently estimate the total impact on 2013 revenue will be approximately $13 million.
Moving on to consolidated operating expenses.
Cost of services in the second quarter increased by $28.4 million versus the second quarter of 2012.
Acquired businesses represented about 80% of this increase with the additional balance coming from continued investments in product development as well as additional service delivery resources to support our management tools and solutions offerings.
Member relations and marketing expense increased by $19.6 million in the second quarter versus the prior year period.
Acquisitions were the biggest factor here as well representing about 78% of the change.
The remaining portion mainly reflects increased headcount for our sales and marketing teams as well as increased commissions on higher year-over-year bookings.
General and administrative costs in the second quarter were up $9.2 million compared to the prior year with about 88% of the increase due to acquired businesses.
Acquisition-related costs of $2 million in the second quarter were driven by planned integration expenses.
Interest income and other net expense was negative $0.3 million in the second quarter of 2013 as compared to a net expense of $0.6 million in the second quarter of 2012 on smaller losses in both foreign currency translation and deferred compensation plan assets.
Interest expense in the second quarter was $6.2 million versus $0.1 million in the prior year period reflecting the interest on the debt raised to fund the SHL acquisition.
Total company adjusted EBITDA margin in the second quarter was 24.6% versus 25.9% in the second quarter of 2012.
At the segment level adjusted EBITDA margin in the quarter was 26.2% for the CEB segment and 19.7% for the SHL segment.
CEB segment margins were relatively flat compared to the prior year and consistent with our typical seasonal investment profile.
As expected margins in the SHL segment remained lower than last year as expenses continue to ramp-up from increased headcount in the SHL segment sales and product delivery functions.
We did see some sequential improvement in SHL segment margins which were helped by encouraging growth in adjusted revenue and reflected the initial returns on these tactical investments.
Depreciation and amortization in the second quarter was $14.8 million an increase of $8.8 million compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Most of this change is from higher amortization of intangible assets resulting from the SHL acquisition.
Our effective tax rate in the second quarter was 38.4% which is slightly higher than in the first quarter due mostly to the distribution of global income and the impact of foreign currency translation losses.
On a year-to-date basis our effective tax rate is now 37.9%.
Please turn to Slide 7 for select balance sheet and cash flow highlights.
We remain in a healthy financial position with $81.6 million of cash at June 30.
Accounts receivable was $187.4 million at June 30 which include $61.1 million for SHL and PDRI.
The current portion of deferred revenue was $380.9 million at June 30 including $54 million from SHL and PDRI.
As compared to the prior year CEB segment deferred revenue excluding PDRI increased by 11.2% to $326.9 million a positive leading indicator for CEB segment revenue.
We ended the quarter with $514.5 million of total debt on the balance sheet and we are on track to reach a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of approximately 2x by the end of the year.
We also maintain access to additional liquidity via the $93 million of undrawn availability under our revolver.
Let me now share a quick update on our financing arrangements.
As you were no doubt aware despite recent volatility conditions in the debt markets remained generally favorable to issuers.
We have been closely monitoring the financing environment and are currently engaged in discussions with our banks to amend extend and reprice our existing senior secured credit facility.
This effort if successful would modestly improved our interest costs.
We will provide additional disclosure on any debt modification if and when it occurs.
For the quarter we spent $5.6 million on capital expenditures largely on application platform enhancements system infrastructure office build-out costs and integration items.
We made a $7.3 million cost method investment that Tom will discuss in his remarks.
We also repaid $3.3 million of debt outstanding.
We continue to return cash to shareholders by paying out $7.6 million of dividends in the quarter.
And as we've previously discussed we plan to use stock buybacks to offset dilution and maintain a constant share count.
During the quarter we made modest progress against that objective by repurchasing $2.8 million of stock.
We now have $47.2 million of availability under the share repurchase program approved by the Board earlier this year.
Management will determine the amount and timing of purchases and the authorization will run through December 31 2014.
Now let's move on to our outlook.
The following comments are intended to fall under the Safe Harbor provisions outlined at the beginning of the call and are based on preliminary assumptions which are subject to change over time.
Please turn to Slide 8 which highlights our outlook for the year ahead.
In short we are reaffirming the guidance we initially provided in February.
As we said then we're planning for continued solid revenue growth attractive margin production and increased investment to produce several -- to pursue several short- and long-term growth opportunities that we see in our business.
Starting at the top line we currently expect adjusted revenue of $825 million to $845 million.
And as I said the reduction in revenue from the deferred revenue fair value adjustment will be approximately $13 million.
So the implied revenue outlook is $812 million to $832 million.
This view reflects continued momentum across our markets globally offset by some headwinds in the U.S.
government sector and the increased exposure of our more global business to currency volatility.
Within this outlook for the remainder of 2013 we expect sequential revenue growth in the CEB segment although annual growth will be somewhat constrained by our government business especially in the fourth quarter.
As to adjusted revenue in the SHL segment it is important to remember the seasonal influences of the third quarter which will drive a sequential decline even as year-over-year growth improves on an easier comparable.
In the fourth quarter sequential growth should resume at SHL with annual growth likely to be somewhere in between the second and third quarter rates.
Tom will elaborate further on regional trends and other factors influencing our second half top line profile.
Net-net we still see a wide array of potential outcomes and are currently tracking near the midpoint of our consolidated revenue range for the year on a reported U.S.
dollar basis assuming exchange rates remain at about the same place going forward.
We are planning for adjusted EBITDA margin between 25% and 26.5% depending largely on where we land in the revenue range.
Let me give you some color on how we see the remainder of the year playing out in each of our segments.
In the CEB segment we expect third and fourth quarter margins to be slightly higher than seen in the second quarter.
While we expect CEB segment revenue to grow sequentially for the rest of this year operating expenses will also grow on the run rate effects of year-to-date hiring continued investment in product development and our seasonally higher fourth quarter spending profile.
In the SHL segment we expect third quarter margins to remain relatively flat to the first half levels before improving in Q4.
As we've said previously we've added sales and delivery capacity in that part of the business and the run rate impact of these new hires was seen in higher second quarter operating expenses.
While we expect these costs will remain relatively flat we also expect SHL segment adjusted revenue to decline seasonally and constrain third quarter margin improvement.
In the fourth quarter we still expect that SHL segment margins will improve as sequential revenue growth resumes.
For 2013 we expect a total of $8 million to $10 million of acquisition-related costs as we continue the next phase of SHL integration.
Depreciation and amortization in 2013 is expected to be between $61 million and $63 million and capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $29 million to $31 million including $4 million to $5 million on integration projects.
Let me comment for just a moment about our tax rate.
As we said last year we expect an ongoing -- as we said last quarter we expect an ongoing normalized effective tax rate in the range of 37% to 39%.
The effective tax rate is dependent on the distribution of global income and excludes any additional permanent book tax differences that are not determinable at this time such as future foreign currency translation gains or losses or other discrete items that are not currently recognizable under U.S.
GAAP.
Two weeks ago the United Kingdom formally approved a reduction to its corporate income tax rates beginning in April 2014.
While this action does not impact our normalized 2013 tax rate it does require us to revalue our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities which will drive a one-time benefit to our effective tax rate in 2013.
Accordingly we currently estimate that we will realize an approximate $3 million reduction to the provision for income taxes in the third quarter.
While this onetime benefit will affect the 2013 effective tax rate we remain focused on using our global structure to continue our long-term tax planning efforts.
We will keep you posted as our visibility increases on factors that will influence the rate in 2014 and beyond.
But for now a normalized tax rate in the range of 37% to 39% remains a good long-term planning assumption.
To recap through the second quarter we remain on track with our objectives for the year solid overall bookings combined with planned growth investments to produce the outcomes we expected in the quarter including some early returns on our tactical investments in the SHL segment.
At the same time we continue to experience headwinds in our Government business from sequestration so full year revenue is currently tracking near the midpoint of our range.
We are also maintaining our 2013 investment plan which may push margins below the midpoint of our range.
As an offset we now expect a more favorable tax rate for the year and see near-term opportunities to modestly reduce our interest expense.
So taking all of these puts and takes into account we're maintaining our outlook for 2013 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share in the range of $2.85 to $3.15.
That's it for the financial summary.
I'll Now turn the call over to Tom who will share more color on our operations and growth strategy in the year ahead.
Thanks Rich and welcome to everyone who's dialed and logged in for today's call.
We're excited to update you on the CEB story and on our work through the first 6 months of 2013.
Let me start my remarks on Slide 9.
As Rich shared our financial returns continue to validate our strategy of tying uniquely valuable insights and data to the big dollar decisions made by key corporate and functional leaders.
We're executing very well against the strategic and financial priorities that we laid out at the beginning of the year and at our annual Investor Day and our results reflect the intensity of this focus.
More broadly our performance reaffirms the strategic investments we've made in the business the relevance of our products and assets and above all the inspired efforts of my 3 600 colleagues globally.
The performance of our largest end markets the CEB segment in North America across both large enterprise and middle-market was obviously critical to achieving this result.
We're pleased that these large portions of our business continue to track against targets.
We remain very excited about the extensive opportunities to create hundreds and thousands of new relationships and deepen them across time.
Continued healthy growth in this business demonstrates that we still have vast opportunity ahead.
The performance of our North America teams overall is particularly impressive given that this part of our business contains our biggest current challenge the U.S.
Federal sector.
The story here is a continuation of one we outlined in the first quarter call.
The onset of the sequester at the beginning of the year has resulted in a very different budgeting environment for our clients as they confront both smaller budgets and a more complicated decision-making processes.
Even with our strong teams and valuable resources our efforts to generate new and cross-sales are not immune from all the implications of this environment.
Unless we see a rapid change in Q3 we're likely to see this business shrink into double-digit rate rather than growing in line with the rest of the firm.
It's obviously not a huge driver of our overall growth across CEB government and our PDRI business our U.S.
Federal footprint totals only about 5% of our overall revenue.
But it will be a headwind on reaching the upper end of our revenue guidance.
Outside the U.S.
we were encouraged to see Europe sustain even gain momentum in the second quarter.
The region still isn't growing at the overall CEB segment average but in the continuation of the trend that we first highlighted in Q4 2012.
Our teams were able to generate solid mid to high single-digit growth for Q2 in most of our markets.
We expect that economic conditions will continue to be a challenge but it's exciting to see our teams link our powerful insights data and tools the needs of executives in these challenging markets.
Asia-Pacific continue to generate strong growth but did slow a bit in the quarter.
Although the majority of the economies in the region are still very healthy we've seen executives get a bit more wary of any new spending as they confront slower growth in China and India.
Obviously markets across this region represent a small portion of our total business but are strategically important as we build out our global business.
Our SHL business also gained momentum in the first half across all market regions.
It was great to see this segment back in the 8-13% organic growth rate range that we target but we know that our best work is still ahead of us.
This performance is particularly impressive given that the performance reflects at this point only very minimal cross-selling and referral activity.
I'll comment more on what we're doing to get that engine moving later in my presentation.
The basic headlines on this business haven't changed.
We have a great team and world class assets lined up against a vast and growing market opportunity.
As we shared in our Investor Day 95% of large companies are planning to increase spend on analytics related to talent decisions over the next 2 years.
And assessment technologies alone are already a $4.6 billion market growing at 9% a year.
With an opportunity like this we made some early investments to get the business growing at our target 8% to 13% growth rate.
We have more of what we need to do here but this quarter with solid revenue growth and double-digit bookings growth gives us confidence that we have our business moving in the right direction.
We also know that we're just scratching the surface on demand in this market and realizing only the first few synergy opportunities that we've laid out.
In summary I'm pleased with what our teams delivered in the first half of the year in a world defined by the need to manage talent information and risk effectively.
CEB's insights and tools are vital to strong corporate performance.
As you know our goal is not just to achieve our in-year financial goals but set ourselves up for continued impact in the coming years.
We continue to deliver not only against our short-term priorities for building the business but laying the groundwork for future growth and impact on our markets.
I want to share briefly some of the highlights on our progress on these priorities.
Please turn to Slide 10 for an update of our first priority delivering surplus business value.
Our goal is not simply to provide our members and clients with a fair return on their investment with us but to help them produce transformative outcomes for their team function or company.
Everything we do our insights tools and advice aims to help a member grow revenue reduce cost reduce risk and ultimately transform their organization.
We're pleased that our core metrics demonstrate continued success in generating value for our members and clients.
We saw Wallet retention in both the CEB segment and the SHL segment continuing in a solid zone and saw CEB Contract Value per member rise by 4.6%.
And in the past year we added 280 great new logos to the member roster.
The foundation of these great results is must-have research and insight on the most important elements of our members' jobs and on the performance of their people and teams.
These insights power advice assessments tools and technology in every area of the business.
And this is shaping up to be a banner year.
Our research teams are well into their major work for the year and we've uncovered some exciting new findings.
Let me briefly call attention to some of these recent efforts.
Our flagship HR practice examined the issue of succession management in the face of a changing work environment.
This is a critical issue for the board CHROs and their CXO peers.
In fact 61% of CHROs reported that a succession planning is the top talent priority for boards.
This is a great example of a recurring high-stakes workflow where we want our thinking and tools sitting right at the center.
CEB has offered market-leading support on succession planning for well over a decade but we continue to push the boundaries of insight as company's faced new challenges.
For example companies are increasingly building leadership pipelines to nowhere as leaders are being prepared for roles that simply will not exist in the future.
Look on the right side of Slide 10 you can see 2 dimensions of this issue.
Last year 13% of legacy leadership positions were eliminated and at the same time 31% of rising leaders were placed on roles that hadn't existed before.
Hitting this moving target requires a new approach to succession management.
By taking a portfolio management view grounded in sensing future leadership demands companies can radically improve their leadership bench strength.
We've built best practice roadmaps that help companies embed demand-based talent planning into existing talent management processes.
This work is a great example of our producing must-have insight that not only immediately helps our members but establishes CEB as the global thought leader on a topic that links to a variety of our product areas from assessments to leadership academies to leadership councils.
One more note about delivering surplus value long-time followers of CEB will remember that one of the major investments we made in our business coming out of the downturn was to elevate and grow our advisory capabilities.
The strength and reach of our advisory team is one of the hidden secrets of our success.
Obviously digital channels such as portals tools et cetera represent the overwhelming volume of users and usage.
And we continue to see rising per member use.
But no matter how rich the content and interfaces are there are certain decisions that a CXO needs to talk through with a high-end intellect who is armed with the world's most valuable insights and the perspectives of their global peers.
Our CEB segment advisory team along with their SHL professional -- SHL segment professional services peers plays a vital role in making sure that member companies can take action using our resources tools and insights.
And this has been a bellwether year as these teams have touched more members at more senior levels and created more outcomes than ever before.
And we're excited to see their impact scale as we continue to arm them with solutions that drive both individual and team productivity.
All in all our financial results reflect an unstinting focus on excellence at the core elements of our business generating must-have contents on big dollar corporate problems and people decisions linking this content to great member work and powerful tools and technology and catalyzing member action with inspired sales service and advice.
Please turn to Slide 11 for an update on our second priority leading analytic transformation of talent management.
We've been outspoken and are excited about the opportunity to help senior executives manage talent with increasing rigor and analytic depth.
You see why on the right-hand side of the slide.
Executives are increasing spend on HR data and analytics and CEB has only begun to tap the current spend at most organizations on talent support.
You see that 95% of senior HR leaders agree that they're going to spend more money on HR data and analytics in just the next 2 years.
And at of the bottom of the page if someone bought everything they could in our current talent suite we'd still be only scratching the surface of their total HR advisory spend.
Building a world class set of assets in this area has been a focus of our internal product development for years and recently has included some notable acquisitions including Baumgartner Valtera and SHL.
We're coming up on the 1-year anniversary of the SHL acquisition and I'm really pleased with the way our business in this sector is now shaping up.
Our ability to help executives make decisions about talent with the rigor and predictive insight is unparalleled.
And our ability to link those talent decisions to outcomes that drive their business is a unique differentiator.
We're moving well pass the "integration phase" with SHL.
Our efforts in this space have now settled into everyday efforts to marry capabilities from across our firm into high impact products that help members transform their companies.
As Paul Levett shared at the Investor Day we now have 3 products in the market that blend our deep knowledge of business processes and outcomes with our unmatched talent assessment and prediction capabilities.
These target the needs of sales IT and finance executives areas of rapid change that make routine big dollar talent choices.
We've also used data from SHL in our talent platform more broadly to add value to our other core membership subscriptions through resource centers on talent in high talent areas like R&amp;D.
I think we're only scratching the surface of the opportunity we were addressing.
We have only begun to generate a solid flow of high-quality referrals across the business.
So from this point forward we're focused on giving our team the resources to tap these opportunities.
Building out our integrated -- our leading integrated talent management platform is not the only part of product development however.
We continue to drive powerful innovation across the business.
Most of this develops organically through our own individual teams but where it makes sense we also look at acquisitions and partnerships to accelerate innovation.
I thought I'd highlight a couple of these recent developments.
As part of organic product development we sometimes partner with companies that have a unique capability or technology to bring a new solution to market.
Sometimes the opportunity is interesting enough to warrant a more strategic relationship with the company.
You saw us do that twice across the past couple of quarters.
The first was with a company called CorpU which develops very high-end corporate learning and leadership development solutions which blend great immersive technology and social learning into a uniquely valuable platform used by some of the world's most sophisticated companies.
A key element of our Leadership Academies roadmap was blending new types of online and social learning into our offers and this partnership offered a great chance to accelerate this.
We've already codeveloped several modules and are really excited at the pace that this is progressing.
The second was The TAS Group a leading sales process automation company with whom we developed a new sales process automation tool called Challenger Dealmaker.
The tool operates within the salesforce.com environment and uses our research and data to help reps navigate complex selling processes.
We've just brought a beta to market as part of our growing sales solution suite and have been very gratified by the early response.
We don't expect these types of partnerships to dominate our focus but cementing relations with important emerging partners can help us to continually tighten the links between our insights data and tools and daily member work.
This is a vital part of our strategy for getting ever deeper in our 5 core domains.
Please turn to Slide 12 for an update on our third priority achieving brand recognition that matches our global impact.
We know that a strong CEB brand is vital to having impact on member companies and achieving real financial returns.
A strong brand helps us acquire new members and deepen relationships.
And importantly it helps our members leverage our work to drive change.
We're investing to build a clear compelling story about CEB in all of our markets.
On previous calls we've discussed work on 3 dimensions: rebranding our SHL business as part of an integrated set of talent management solutions; raising the visibility of the CEB brand through simple and consistent articulations of our capabilities and impact; and finally continuing to build an elite talent brand that attracts the people we need to power the business for years to come.
Our focus this year is making sure that the vast market understands the reach and range of our integrated talent management offers.
While we have an unmatched track record of impact many executives in the CHRO's office and beyond don't yet realize the full power of what we can do for them.
Or for that matter the full power of what they can do with our help.
The nearest-term objective is to transition the SHL brand firmly into the CEB brand family.
And we've targeted several major milestones in Q3.
The goal is not only to link the brands but to loudly broadcast our full suite of capabilities to the market.
We're seeking to arm our teams with the tools to better refer and collaborate on business around the world.
The foundation of these changes is a refreshed view of our end-to-end talent offer.
On the right side of the slide you can see that we've organized our offerings into a set of integrated talent management solutions for talent selection engagement development and organizational developments anchored in proven best practices research and database insights.
Our SHL talent measurement solutions workforce surveys and analytics and leaning development offerings bring together to enable better performance results through better talents insights decisions and actions.
We're looking forward to a broader rollout of this updated position in Q3 keeping the market well aware of what we're now capable of helping them accomplish.
And we'll keep you all updated on our progress.
So to sum up my remarks on Page 13.
We're executing well against the strategic and financial priorities that we laid out at the beginning of the year and at our Annual Investor Day.
More broadly our performance reaffirms the strategic investments that we've made in the business the must-have nature of our resources and tools and above all the inspired efforts of my world-class colleagues.
Of course with a few more words about my colleagues.
Rich myself and the rest of the leadership team have the pleasure of building a great company together with the world's most talented and driven professionals.
Our growth opportunities come to life through their efforts and without them we wouldn't create great outcomes for the world's great companies.
I'm energized by what we're accomplishing together grateful for the opportunity to learn from them and inspired by the privilege of representing them everyday.
Together we have more work to do in the second half to deliver on our commitments but I continue to believe we have an unmatched set of people and resources to help member companies achieve great things.
We'll now your take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Paul Ginocchio at Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Rich just want to be clear.
It sounds like you've got a $0.09 EPS tax benefit in the third quarter.
And that is going to be offset by a little bit of headwind from the government and some extra investments is that correct? Yes I think the revenue line as we said we're tracking towards the midpoint.
Certainly the government is a big part of that.
Margins coming in at or probably below the midpoint driven by the investments that we continue to make.
And then kind of below the EBITDA line there will be some benefit from tax rate the biggest one being that onetime benefit we talked about earlier.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just 2 more.
Have you accelerated any investments this year relative to maybe the original plan? And then I'll leave it at that.
Not meaningfully no.
I would say that particularly on the SHL side some of our planned headcount additions have come in a little bit faster than we had anticipated.
So we've done a good job on the recruiting side there.
Next we'll move to Tobey Sommer at SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Within the progress that you're seeing in SHL could you describe kind of geographically the mix in -- I'm most interested in I guess in what success you're having in the U.S.
The business has returned to solid growth.
We've actually seen all regions contribute to both revenue in the quarter and as I said double-digit sales and bookings growth which sets us up well for future quarters.
We -- across what's been largely a good news story and a momentum story we've seen continued great success from the Continental European team and teams on the ground in several key emerging markets like South Africa and the Middle East.
But the largest story is just one of global progress.
The investments in North America really only hit the ground in Q2.
We're still continuing to make them.
So the real benefit of the North America scale up I think is in the out quarters.
The existing team in North America did a great job but the benefits the investment aren't likely to accrue until future quarters.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then my follow-up has to do with the small government piece and we've seen sequestration.
Tactically are there things you can implement to offset that or is this just a case of riding out the change in market and spending by that customer set? Sure yes.
Job 1 as always is creating great value.
We're very focused on creating hugely valuable resources for the executives we support and we've pioneered a range of innovative data and content plays in the sector.
Our challenge in this period is actually navigating the right balance between maintaining our strategic commitment to this huge opportunity and not having some of our most talented people be underutilized.
We do have particular expertise in the PDRI and gov teams we also have skills elsewhere in demand.
As you can see the rest of the business is growing at a really healthy rate.
So we're trying to figure out planfully how to both maintain commitment to the sector so we capture the opportunities that are there and when we can redeploy people to capture the vast commercial markets.
So that's a name-by-name case-by-case week-by-week exercise here.
The commercial markets are sufficiently strong that we know we can deploy people if they're going to be underutilized in the government sector.
We think in the long term even the medium term we think our work is a vital enabler of lean-effective government.
We want to be in a position to drive that opportunity and you've seen us be very effective when budget opportunities open up and other markets are quickly recapturing or advancing quickly on any stalled projects or dollars.
We're very good at capturing opportunities as they show up.
We just want to be in a position to do that without sacrificing any near-term commercial opportunities.
Next we'll move to Tim McHugh at William Blair &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Yes I guess I was just going to ask you to elaborate a little bit more on what -- how you were -- I guess SHL was able to grow at double digits in Europe right now against I assume is still kind of a tough environment or did the environment get better? Or do you feel like you just were able to I guess outsell the tough environment there? I don't think the storyline in the business more broadly has changed it all.
We have a great team and world-class assets lined up against what even in difficult markets is a huge market opportunity.
That nugget about what percentage of companies are increasing spend on HR analytics is a global number and companies in Europe which are trying to make very smart decisions on the margin about every dollar they spend are finding that these tools and resources can really help them.
They can't afford to make a bad hire they can't afford to make a bad promotion they can't afford to make a bad choice about an individual.
And our teams are terrific about squaring up against that opportunity and going and capturing and driving the growth of the market.
So nothing other than great teams and hugely valuable resources in the midst of a market that's rewarding a lot of precision in decision making right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you haven't seen much of an impact it sounds like from I guess certainly sales force investments in the U.S.
When would you expect to start to see that contribute to the growth? Yes I think it's early days both in terms of sales force investments in the U.S.
because those resources really became activated only in Q2.
And if you think about the combination of ramped-up productivity for new sales person and sales cycles it's going to be Q3 Q4 and beyond before you see the full value of those investments.
So we're glad we had such good recruiting success.
We're glad that people are ramping quickly.
But the momentum we saw in the quarter came from the existing team that was in place at the start of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then I guess lastly in Asia is it concentrated in I guess China and India I guess if we look beyond that Australia and the other markets are they still growing well or is it a broader trend you're seeing? I'd say the entire Asia Pac region is growing well.
I don't want to -- but you are just seeing on the margin a touch more caution as people worry about is China going to slow? Is India going to slow? We can -- as I said if we can compete effectively in Europe where the question is is anyone ever going to grow again? We can certainly compete effectively in markets that are trying to differentiate between 8% growth and 7% growth.
So we're able to grow effectively there.
There's just been a slight change in the tone.
I think you're seeing that in a lot of companies but our teams did a good job growing the business.
It is a little concentrated in what I'd call the most dynamic emerging markets rather than kind of the more mature markets like Australia and New Zealand.
We'll go next to Joseph Foresi at Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> I think my first question here is just excluding kind of government work and emerging markets stuff and Europe maybe you could just talk about what you think the core business is doing and how you feel the demand environment is progressing there as we hit sort of the midpoint here? If you look at CEB's overall growth rate for the strong organic growth rates for the quarter you can assume that the core North American market both in large enterprise and middle market is growing at a very healthy clip.
I think that reflects executives seeing huge value from the tools they already buy from us.
And it reflects the fact that people even if they're not confronting wonderful economic growth they feel the markets are stable.
They've got to find a way to grow their own businesses grow profit and grow productivity.
And our teams are doing a great job being out in front of that and driving the growth.
So the core of the business large enterprise and middle-market North America is feels very strong and the market environment feels very strong.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Steven Shui with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You guys had solid growth in SHL but it sounds like the opportunity is really still ahead of you guys there since the cross-sell has been pretty minimal.
Can you just kind of talk about the initial reaction and feedback-- from clients in the U.S.? Have you started ramping up sales in that market? We're excited about this opportunity because we work pretty closely with heads of HR to begin with.
And they've been very clear they need and want more help making decisions about people.
It's the biggest expense item in most businesses and it's one that's made with certainly insufficient rigor and often little or no predictive capability.
So that continues to be a core theme in everyone of our conversations.
People looking for more help to make their biggest dollar highest-bated [ph] decisions which in an operating company are about people.
So our members are very excited about the opportunity here and you can see just the growth of the businesses continue to validate that thesis.
I would say that we still have much more work to do in terms of enabling our teams to do a great job referring and cross-selling and moving opportunities back and forth across the elements of our business.
A big focus of the branding effort isn't just to amplify our store in the marketplace but to give our teams good clear messages and tools to really lubricate that referral process.
But when we've gone out and validated our thesis with customers and when I've sat in front of customers to talk with them this is a huge pain point that they're very excited to see us come to market with some solutions in.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And can you comment on how many sales guys you added in the quarter for SHL? Yes we don't really comment specifically on that.
Safe to say that we're adding resources ahead of the rate of revenue growth at this point in time as we're investing for future growth.
And we'll go back to Joseph Foresi at Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> So I just I wanted to ask maybe 2 follow-ups.
First on the SHL acquisition I think you had expected to start to return to sort of a normalized historical growth rate in that business in the beginning of 2014.
Are we still on that general trajectory? I think as you look at it over the -- on a full year basis obviously we made some good progress in the second quarter.
I think if you go back to the beginning of the year we had said we could see ourselves potentially getting into the lower end of that range on a full year basis.
That looks a little bit more achievable now than it did probably at the very beginning of the year.
But the investments we're making right now we're doing with the purpose of trying to get better growth in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just on the margin front is it safe to say that after this year I'm just wondering what your investment schedule is? Is it safe to say that after this year your front-end investing in the North American sales force in SHL and some of the other investing that you'll do will modify a little bit in 2014? I mean we'll certainly be going through our planning cycle and looking at the opportunities in front of us.
Given the sizable investment we're making this year we would hope that that allows us to capitalize on that momentum next year and potentially have less need for incremental investment.
Having said that our priority remains healthy sustainable top line growth.
And the benefits of our business with the high incremental margins we generate on our platform gives us the flexibility to balance both margin expansion and investments to continue to grow revenue.
We'll move next to David Ridley-Lane at Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Where do we stand on the $5 million in run rate cost synergies from the SHL acquisition? We are very much on track to realize those synergies coming -- on a run-rate basis coming out of the year.
So that is -- that's been a good news story.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then what roughly would be the amount coming in 2013 versus the incremental amount that we would see in 2014? I think you would -- you should expect us to be roughly at that $5 million range for 2014.
Research Division</strong> Yes but I mean how much money would we be saving in 2013 actuals not on a run rate basis.
But I mean would we get like $2.5 million in 2013 and then see the other remaining $2.5 million incremental benefit in 2014 for example? Yes it's closer to the $2 million area for 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with that I guess $3 million that you'd be incremental in 2014 would that be in addition to your long-term margin guidance of about 25 basis points a year? Or would that be sort of baked in and part of your planning process? We said it's a minimum 25% so we'll take a look at those -- first and foremost the biggest drivers will be leveraging the existing business platform so that should dwarf even the cost synergies we're talking about so that plus cost synergies.
And then we'll look at the investment opportunities in the context of our commitment to expand margins.
And we'll figure out where that nets out.
But it's definitely good to have some extra investment capital either to play with or return in the form of margins.
And I've been -- the teams that have been working on this have gotten out and executed a variety of ways that give us great confidence that that $5 million is going to be easily achieved.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then can you just maybe give a little more explanation.
So I heard the SHL revenue growth is going to likely accelerate in the third quarter but then will decelerate in the fourth quarter.
And that's just a little bit confusing because I would have expected starting to see some benefit from the U.S.
headcount additions in the fourth quarter that maybe the comps are just that much more difficult on the fourth quarter? It's less about the comp being more difficult in the fourth quarter than it being extremely easy in the third quarter.
And combined with the fact that there is also a seasonal decline that occurs in the third quarter.
You'll remember that the third quarter last year was obviously when we closed the merger that was sort of the peak of the merger distraction factors.
And so we started making progress beginning in the fourth quarter of last year but it's really as a result of those factors.
Research Division</strong> So what's kind of a typical seasonal decline for SHL in the third quarter? Well I mean I think if you look at what happened last year that's not a bad marker for the general trend but obviously we expect that to be shallower this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then on the debt repricing is that expected to be about 100 basis points more or less? Or what are you kind of hoping for on the debt repricing? Yes I really can't comment on that right now David because we have not yet consummated a transaction.
So we'll certainly provide additional disclosure at the appropriate time.
We'll go next to Tobey Sommer at SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question for you about your services to C-sweep level people within your customer set.
You highlighted succession planning as an area where there's kind of an opportunity.
Is there a broader intention to expand services to that top echelon within your silos? Tobey that's -- we think of those as the cornerstone of most of our businesses.
Our first and most important businesses in each of our domain areas are the leadership councils that serve that top layer both the CXO and their key deputies.
And those businesses performed very very well.
Succession planning is one of those great topics that not only is it the 24 by 7 worry of the Head of HR and the CEO but every one of those functional leads worries about their leadership pipelines underneath them.
They worry about having the right leaders in the right place to deploy against current business needs and to replace themselves when the time comes.
So succession planning is one of many things we do that's uniquely valuable to those top-level executives.
But the focus on those CXOs is constant for us.
They are -- those Leadership Council products that stay with them.
We worry about their agendas on their behalf and support their teams in executing them are a critical part of the business.
And they're a critical part of the healthy growth story this quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess I meant more of a focus outside of the data and tools but more on the personal interaction that you described as kind of being of particular value with a firm.
Is there a plan to focus resources on hiring more of that? We found the advisory and professional services layers.
If you think of our businesses having parts that are closer to fix and parts that are closer to variable the advisor and professional services layers tend to be closer to the variable cost end of the spectrum.
So like sales as the business grows we need to hire those people in to make sure we can have impact.
Our goal is never to be an arms and legs consulting firm but merely to make sure members can use the great shared cost resources tools technology insights best practices that we create.
And those advisor and professional services people are critical to making that happen.
So I'd expect over time to see it grow more or less in line with revenue.
We made sort of a onetime step-up coming out of the downturn.
I think from this point forward it grows more or less in line with revenue.
And at this time we have no further questions.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Monahan for any closing remarks.
Thanks very much.
To close let me just summarize my early remarks.
We're obviously executing well against the strategic and financial priorities that we've laid out for the business.
Our performance reaffirms the strategic investments we've made the must-have nature of our resources and tools and above all the inspired efforts of my world-class colleagues.
Thanks everyone for calling and logging in.
Rich and I look forward to seeing many of you in our travels over the next couple of months.
We'll be at the Investment Conference of Minnesota later this week and at the Deutsche Bank and Credit Suisse events in September.
We look forward to keeping you up to date on the CEB story.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Again thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the CEB Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through November 9 by dialing (719) 457-0820.
The replay passcode is 8269577.
The replay will also be available beginning later today through November 9 at the company's website.
To extent -- to the extent any non-GAAP financial measures are discussed in today's call you will also find a reconciliation of that measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated according to the GAAP by going to the company's website and following the Investors link to yesterday's news release.
You will also find a PDF of supporting materials that the company will use in its prepared remarks this morning by going to the Investors page and following the link to the first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Please review the second page of these materials which include important information about any forward-looking information included in the presentation.
This conference call may also contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements among others regarding the CEB expected quarterly and annual financial performance for fiscal 2013 and beyond.
For this purpose any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing discussions of forecasts estimates targets plans beliefs and expectations and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
You are hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by important factors among others set forth by the Corporate Executive Board's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and its fourth quarter news release.
Consequently actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information further events or otherwise.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the conference over to the company's Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Richard Lindahl.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much and good morning everyone.
I'm Rich Lindahl Chief Financial Officer of CEB.
Thank you for calling or logging in to our third quarter 2013 earnings report.
On today's call I will review our third quarter financial results discuss our 2013 guidance and share some early thoughts on 2014.
Tom Monahan our Chief Executive Officer will then take over to share additional insight on our operations in the quarter and review progress against our 2013 priorities.
Then we will take your questions.
Please turn to Slide 3 of our presentation where we lay out the key takeaways from today's report.
First as evidenced by constant currency adjusted revenue growth rates the bookings momentum in most parts of our business is solid and our strategic thesis remains very much intact.
Second revenue and margin through the third quarter were negatively impacted by persistent headwinds in our U.S.
federal government business as well as exchange rates.
These factors also drive updates to our full year outlook.
Third we remain confident in the future potential of our PDRI asset but have recognized a goodwill impairment loss in light of the environment for the U.S.
federal government.
Fourth the PDRI impairment creates noise in our tax rate because the goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes although this factor will be normalized for the full year on a non-GAAP basis.
And finally our recent credit facility refinancing and the impact of discrete tax items primarily the U.K.
tax rate change enacted in the quarter provide support to full year non-GAAP EPS.
Let's turn to Slide 4 for a summary recap of our results.
Revenue was $201.7 million in the third quarter of 2013 an increase of 22.4% on a year-over-year basis.
Adjusted EBITDA margin was 24.7% in the third quarter compared to 29.1% in the third quarter of 2012.
Diluted loss per share was $0.16 and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increased 10.3% to $0.86 for the third quarter of 2013.
Results this quarter include 2 noncash items that merit further explanation.
First we recorded a $22.6 million goodwill impairment loss on PDRI.
As we indicated in our last 10-Q filing we have been monitoring how U.S.
federal government budgeting challenges might impact potential operating results for PDRI over the next several years.
Upon completion of the federal fiscal year that ended on September 30 we updated our PDRI forecasts determined that an impairment indicator existed and conducted the prescribed valuation analysis.
This is a thorough process that is based on estimates of future financial performance and an appropriate discount rate which among other things reflects a higher interest rate environment.
While we remain confident in the potential of our PDRI business the resulting valuation did not exceed the reporting unit's carrying value and we have written it down accordingly.
You'll also note when we file our 10-Q that we've performed an impairment analysis on the SHL Talent Measurement Solutions reporting unit.
The resulting valuation exceeded the carrying value of the segment albeit by a modest amount and we therefore determined that the carrying value of the reporting unit was not impaired at September 30.
As we have previously discussed and as you've seen in our constant currency adjusted revenue growth rates we continue to gather momentum in the SHL Talent Measurement Solutions business and are pursuing an investment plan for the segment which we expect to drive improved annual revenue growth in the years ahead.
While we remain committed to that strategy it likely also leads to a near-term margin profile that while improving stays below the historical margin profile for this business.
This performance expectation is consistent with our previous discussions.
However in a higher interest rate environment it does increase the risk of a potential noncash impairment loss in the future for accounting purposes even as the segment's fundamentals and operations continue to strengthen.
Second we had a $6.7 million noncash debt extinguishment charge.
As previously disclosed we amended our credit facility on August 2 to among other things lower our interest costs and increase the size of our revolver.
Based on the required analysis this amount was determined to be related to debt extinguishment and therefore recognized in the current period instead of being amortized to interest expense over the remaining 5-year life of the credit facility.
Now let's turn to Slide 5 and I'll review our key operating metrics.
CEB segment Contract Value at September 30 2013 was $575.9 million up 10.2% versus the prior year and reflecting continued solid bookings growth over the past year.
For the SHL Talent Measurement Solutions segment adjusted revenue was $44.4 million in the third quarter an increase of 7.9% compared to pro forma segment adjusted revenue in the third quarter of 2012.
Exchange rates had a larger impact during the quarter.
As on a constant-currency basis SHL Talent Measurement Solutions adjusted revenue growth was 10.8%.
CEB segment Wallet retention rate was 98% at September 30 2013 down slightly compared to 99% in the prior year.
SHL Talent Measurement Solutions segment Wallet retention rate was 97% at September 30 2013 also in the normal range and continuing to reflect the strong recurring revenue in that part of our business.
Total CEB segment member institutions grew 6.6% to 6 336 in the third quarter and we continue to add institutions in both our middle market and large corporate memberships.
Finally CEB segment Contract Value per member institution was $90 900 at September 30 a 3.5% increase over the third quarter of 2012.
Please turn to Slide 6 and I'll review key segment highlights for the quarter.
CEB segment revenue was $158.7 million in the third quarter a 10% increase compared to $144.2 million in the third quarter of 2012 which included only 2 months of revenue from PDRI.
Excluding PDRI from the CEB segment in both years organic growth was 9.7% in the quarter.
The SHL Talent Measurement Solutions segment contributed $43 million of revenue in the third quarter net of a $1.4 million reduction to reflect the deferred revenue fair value adjustment.
We now estimate that the deferred revenue fair value adjustment will reduce full year 2013 revenue by approximately $10 million.
Moving on to consolidated operating expenses.
Cost of services in the third quarter increased by $12.2 million versus the third quarter of 2012.
Acquired businesses represented about 68% of this increase with the additional balance coming from increased delivery resources and product development.
Member relations and marketing expense increased by $13.5 million in the third quarter versus the prior year period.
Acquisitions were the biggest factor here as well and also represented about 68% of the change.
The remaining portion mainly reflects increased headcount and sales commission growth.
General and administrative costs in the third quarter were up $2.1 million compared to the prior year mostly driven by acquisitions.
Acquisition-related costs of $4 million in the third quarter were driven by planned integration expenses including various marketing costs to promote the CEB SHL Talent Measurement Solutions brand.
Interest income and other was a net expense of $2.1 million in the third quarter of 2013 as compared to income of $1.6 million in the third quarter of 2012.
This expense in the quarter was primarily due to a $2.6 million net foreign currency loss partially offset by other items.
Interest expense in the third quarter was $5 million and benefited from reduced interest costs resulting from our previously disclosed credit facility amendment.
I'll say a little bit more about this in just a minute.
Total company adjusted EBITDA margin in the third quarter was 24.7% versus 29.1% in the third quarter of 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA margin in the quarter was 28.4% for the CEB segment.
As expected CEB segment margins improved sequentially although they were lower than last year due to both foreign currency losses and a reduction in PDRI margin.
Adjusted EBITDA margin in the SHL Talent Measurement Solutions segment was 11.5% which included a foreign currency loss of $1.6 million or 3.6% of SHL Talent Measurement Solutions segment adjusted revenue.
SHL Talent Measurement Solutions segment margins reflected typical seasonal revenue patterns in the quarter as well as the impact of higher run rate expenses from our investments in segment sales and product delivery capacity.
Depreciation and amortization in the third quarter was $15.3 million an increase of $4 million compared to the third quarter of 2012.
Most of this change is from higher amortization of intangible assets resulting from the SHL acquisition.
We recorded a tax benefit of $2.6 million or 32.7% of pre-tax income in the third quarter.
There were several factors influencing the rate this quarter.
First as discussed on our last call we recognized a onetime reduction to tax expense from revaluing our net deferred tax liabilities in the United Kingdom given the legislative enactment to reduce the U.K.
tax rate.
However that benefit was offset by the treatment of the PDRI goodwill impairment loss which while recognized as an expense for book purposes is not deductible for tax purposes and therefore increases our effective tax rate for the year.
While this impact will be normalized out for the purpose of calculating adjusted net income the impact is spread across both the third and fourth quarters.
Please refer to footnote 2 on Page 12 of our earnings press release for more information.
Please turn now to Slide 7 for select balance sheet and cash flow highlights.
We remain in a healthy financial position with $77.8 million of cash at September 30.
Accounts receivable was $183.9 million which includes $59.2 million for SHL Talent Measurement Solutions and PDRI.
The current portion of deferred revenue was $350.3 million at September 30 including $60 million from SHL Talent Measurement Solutions and PDRI.
As compared to the prior year CEB segment deferred revenue excluding PDRI increased by 10.2% to $290.3 million a positive leading indicator for CEB segment revenue.
We ended the quarter with $518.4 million of total debt on the balance sheet and we continue to target a ratio of net-debt-to-adjusted-EBITDA of approximately 2x by the end of the year.
We also maintain access to additional liquidity via the $193 million of undrawn availability under our revolver.
For the quarter we spent $8.7 million on capital expenditures largely on application platform enhancements system infrastructure office build-out costs and integration items.
We made 2 cost method investments totaling $3.9 million in the quarter.
We continue to return cash to shareholders by paying out $7.6 million of dividends.
We did not repurchase any stock during the quarter and maintained $47.2 million of availability under the share repurchase program approved by the board earlier this year.
Management will determine the amount and timing of purchases and the authorization will run through December 31 2014.
Let me now share a quick update on our financing arrangements.
As previously announced in August we completed an amendment to our senior secured credit facility that reduces the cost of that variable rate debt.
In the last several weeks we also entered into several floating to fixed rate swaps that allow us to lock in a portion of our debt costs in the current interest rate environment.
The net result of both actions is that we lowered our current cost of debt approximately 95 basis points while also mitigating our exposure to higher future interest rates by converting about 50% of the facility to fixed rate debt.
Accordingly based on current LIBOR rates our interest expense for the fourth quarter would be about $4.9 million or $1.3 million lower than in the second quarter which is the last full period before we amended the facility.
Now let's move on to our outlook.
The following comments are intended to fall under the Safe Harbor Provisions outlined at the beginning of the call and are based on preliminary assumptions which are subject to change over time.
Please turn to Slide 8 to review our updated 2013 outlook.
As discussed earlier we are making solid progress across most of our business and the year has shaped up largely as we expected.
However given the current environment for U.S.
government buyers we are adjusting our revenue range and tightening our margin guidance accordingly.
These changes are offset by lower interest expense from our amended credit facility and tax benefits from certain discrete items this year both of which provide support to full year non-GAAP earnings.
We now expect adjusted revenue of $817 million to $827 million and that the reduction in revenue from the deferred revenue fair value adjustment will be approximately $10 million this year.
So the GAAP revenue outlook is $807 million to $817 million.
We now expect adjusted EBITDA margin between 25% and 25.5% depending largely on where we land in the revenue range.
In the CEB segment we expect fourth quarter margin to be a bit lower sequentially on seasonally higher expenses.
In the SHL Talent Measurement Solutions segment we expect fourth quarter margin to improve sequentially assuming stable exchange rates.
For 2013 we expect approximately $10 million of acquisition-related costs.
Depreciation and amortization in 2013 is expected to be between $61 million and $62 million and capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $29 million to $31 million.
Let me comment for just a moment about our tax rate.
We expect an ongoing normalized effective tax rate in the range of 37% to 39%.
Due to several factors including most significantly the book versus tax deductibility of the PDRI impairment loss the tax rate for 2013 is currently estimated at approximately 47% excluding foreign currency gains or losses or other discrete items that are not currently recognizable under U.S.
GAAP.
Over time it is important to remember that the biggest determinant of our effective tax rate will be the distribution of taxable income across domestic and foreign jurisdictions.
As just discussed our earnings this year will now benefit from lower interest expense due to our amended credit facility.
So incorporating all of these factors we are tightening our outlook for 2013 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share into a range of $3 to $3.15.
I'll now comment very briefly on our early thoughts about 2014.
While our expectations for next year will be strongly influenced by the outcome of the important fourth quarter selling season based on our current trajectory we believe we will construct an operating plan that targets organic growth near the midpoint of our long-term 8% to 13% revenue guidance range and delivers at least 25 basis points of margin expansion.
Our views will obviously be influenced by how we end the year but we see encouraging signs that recent bookings and sales trends will set us up well as we head into next year.
That's it for the financial summary.
I'll now turn the call over to Tom who will share more color on our operations and growth strategy.
Thanks Rich and welcome to everyone who's joined for today's call.
We appreciate the opportunity to update you on our performance and are excited to share plans to continue growing the business.
We achieved solid results within an operating environment that remains mixed and at times noisy with U.S.
political dysfunction continuing to generate uncertainty in the broader U.S.
and global economy.
From sequestration to the shutdown to the ongoing debt conversation U.S.
political debate is simply making it difficult for companies worldwide to confidently act on longer-term planning assumptions.
Our own index of business confidence was flat in the quarter with executives globally anticipating higher interest rates and taking a generally restrained look on hiring and investment.
Despite such turbulence companies remain focused on driving performance with a particular emphasis on capturing productivity gains.
We are confident that our resources are particularly valuable to companies in this environment where optimizing returns from talent driving innovation and managing risk are high corporate priorities.
Let me continue my remarks on Slide 9 with an update on our performance in our key end markets.
In particular I want to provide additional color on our U.S.
government business which had a shortfall in our planned revenue.
We've obviously been tracking this all year and have talked about it on previous calls.
We have 2 offerings within the government sector.
Our PDRI business offers integrated talent management solutions for government clients and our CEB government practice which delivers best practices and decision support.
While we did not expect this market to repeat its strong 2012 performance we did plan on modest growth roughly in line with the overall corporate average.
Even as we encountered early year noise via the sequester we elected to keep strong teams in place with a goal of recapturing opportunities during the vital Q3 contracting season.
We made some headway but clearly not enough.
Rather than hitting our target growth rate this business is likely to shrink in the double-digit range which represents about $10 million of planned revenue.
We've begun to rotate some people in solutions within the PDRI business to focus on private sector opportunities and expect to see the first benefit of these moves in 2014.
Over the long term the U.S.
federal government remains an important end market for our solutions but we need to balance this commitment with the ability to get after near-term opportunities elsewhere.
Performance in our geographic end markets remains consistent with prior quarters.
The CEB segment in North America our largest market and a bellwether for overall performance continues to generate solid double-digit growth.
We're pleased with healthy progress to-date in both the large enterprise and middle-market sectors and we see significant opportunity to create new relationships and deepen them across time.
Outside of the U.S.
we are encouraged by performance in Europe and the Asia Pacific region.
Our European business sustained momentum and grew in the quarter although our growth rate there remains below the firm average.
We expect that economic conditions will remain challenging but our team and offerings are positioned to make a strong close to 2013 and carry momentum into 2014.
Asia Pac is generating solid growth in line with the firm average.
This region is strategically important to building our global presence and we'll continue to push for strong growth in 2014.
Our rebranded SHL Talent Measurement Solutions business also achieved solid growth in the quarter.
With double-digit constant currency adjusted revenue growth the business continued momentum that we built in the first half of the year and is performing consistent with our 2013 expectations.
However we know our best work is still ahead as we continue to invest at a rate that allows us to seize the opportunity in the business and tap the significant chance to help companies drive performance from talent.
95% of companies are planning to increase spend on talent analytics in the next 2 years and we are very well positioned to help them manage talent with more rigor and analytic depth.
We're also pleased with our progress in this market but not yet fully satisfied that we are close to tapping the full potential of this opportunity.
Our progress to-date reflects stability and solid operational progress in the business more than it reflects full return from our investment profile so we still have lots of work to do.
Looking across all our markets I'm pleased that the majority of our businesses were able to deliver solid double-digit organic growth in the third quarter.
While these results weren't enough to offset the near-term revenue headwinds in the government sector we have momentum in our core business as we enter the final quarter of the year.
CEB's insights and tools are vital to driving corporate performance.
And as executives plan for the coming year we see our resources aligning well to the increasingly urgent and difficult decisions that companies face.
As we close our year and plan for a strong 2014 we are working on 3 priorities to build the business.
Let me share an update on each.
Please turn to Slide 10 for an update on our first priority delivering surplus business value.
We create tangible business value by targeting the drivers of corporate performance.
Everything we do helps our members and clients grow revenue reduce cost reduce risk and ultimately transform their organization.
We're pleased that our progress in the third quarter reflects continued success in generating business value for our members and clients.
Wallet retention in both the CEB segment and SHL Talent Measurement Solutions segment continue to track within historical ranges and CEB segment Contract Value per member grew by 3.5%.
Since Q3 2012 we have also added more than 350 great new companies to our membership roster.
Another important area of focus is architecting platforms and service strategies that drive strong usage of our offerings.
We know that usage correlates with renewals and cross-sells and we've been particularly pleased with our strong usage of our online platforms and tools year-to-date.
We've seen a sharp rise in our core online metrics and believe this is predictive of future commercial value.
Developing unique insights into the drivers of corporate performance remains the foundation for creating and delivering business value.
These insights ultimately power the advice assessments tools and technology that we use with members and clients.
We've had another strong year on this front in each of our domains.
I want to call your attention to one of our recent finance research initiatives.
The depth of our executive relationships our offerings within corporate finance gives us a unique view on pressing corporate issues.
One area of focus is using enterprise risk management programs to improve strategic decision-making.
Our team conducted research to understand the key drivers of strategic decision-making quality.
We then analyzed the specific enterprise risk management activities that could have the greatest overall impact on decision quality and corporate performance.
The result of our work is prescriptive guidance to our member ERM executives about where and how to engage executive peers.
You see several of these activities and how much they influence decision quality listed on the right-hand side of the slide.
The challenge for our member executives is to ensure that ERM processes are deeply embedded with ongoing corporate efforts and therefore ensure that enterprise risk management in a very efficient and lean way creates great business outcomes.
We are thrilled to have the insights and arm them with the tools to accomplish this.
We've just begun our research planning process for 2014 and are leveraging more than 16 000 executive relationships around the world to identify the most pressing issues facing the world's leading companies.
Our teams will soon begin an exciting new slate of research project for the coming year which will provide a great foundation for both immediate member action and robust new tools and solutions.
Please turn to Slide 11 for an update on our second priority leading the analytic transformation of talent management.
I'm pleased with our efforts to help senior executives manage talent with increasing rigor and analytic depth.
As we've discussed it's a significant opportunity and we've been successful in building offerings that provide an integrated solution for companies.
In addition to our SHL Talent Measurement Solutions we also bring powerful workforce surveys and analytics and learning and development opportunities to this market.
We made real progress on 2 fronts this quarter that will further increase the strength and impact of our talent management position.
First we reached a major milestone in our effort to transition the SHL brand firmly into the CEB brand family under the SHL Talent Measurement Solutions banner.
This included refreshing our digital and physical presences solutions platforms and our member and client communications to reflect that we are 1 CEB brand.
We are sharing the updated brand messages with markets through a focused campaign that includes targeted advertising thought leadership in major media outlets and client events.
With the rebranding we take a major step forward in telling a clear consistent and powerful story about CEB and how we create value.
Second with our teams around the world now increasingly linked we're seeing real benefit from the powerful combination of our best practices and assessment resources and data.
Let me share a few exciting examples.
First we're packaging PDRI and SHL Talent Measurement resources into enhancements for our entire Leadership Council platform the core CEB subscription business.
These include a package of resources that help executives increase manager effectiveness enhance talent acquisition and development efforts and engage and retain top talent.
These enhancements both deliver immediate value to members across the platforms and around the world and also provide an upgrade path to our largest suite of talent solutions across time.
Second as we shared on our Annual Investor Day we now have 3 functional talent assessment products in the market.
These offers blend our deep knowledge of business processes and outcomes with our talent assessment and prediction capability.
We are excited that market interest in these offerings has been so strong.
Third we are finding an array of uses for talent data in our research initiative.
One exciting example comes from recent work in our financial services practice.
Our members were wrestling with the question of the right profile for bank branch talent a huge source of cost and potentially performance improvement for them.
We were uniquely able to leverage staff competency data from nearly 300 banks and customer experience data from thousands of financial services customers to identify the critical skills and capabilities that branch staff must possess to drive revenue and operating results.
Simply put no other company in the world could have pulled together assets of this quality and reach.
As you can imagine such a broad array of synergy opportunities gives us a lot to work on but also demands discipline and prioritization.
As you can see from the opportunities we are pursuing several of them will flow through the CEB segment P&amp;L.
So as these become significant we'll try to call them out so you have a complete sense of the synergy benefits.
As we plan for 2014 we're excited to continue efforts on these synergies and find even more ways to leverage powerful combinations of our assets.
Please turn to Slide 12 for an update on our third priority achieving brand recognition that matches our global impact.
Building a strong CEB brand continues to be an area of intense focus for our teams.
We know that a strong brand is vital to making an impact on members and clients and achieving our financial goals.
With our rebranding of SHL Talent Measurement Solutions we have reached an important milestone in our efforts.
And during Q3 we have enjoyed seeing the CEB brand in the public market and public discourse in a number of ways.
First and most importantly we just published The Effortless Experience written by our own Matt Dixon Nick Toman and Rick Delisi.
The book is based on insights developed in our customer contact Leadership Council which serves heads of customer care at the world's largest companies.
The central insight is that customer loyalty is actually driven by how well a company solves day-to-day problems not on how spectacular its service might be.
As we've seen with the success coming out of our Challenger Sale book publication publishing in the mass market creates a much broader frontier for our brand and more opportunity to introduce our solutions to new customers.
Second we continue to extend our thought leadership to the public domain through highlight contributions to tier 1 media publications.
For the past quarter our research and insights have been featured in The Wall Street Journal Forbes and the Harvard Business Review.
The Times U.K.
also featured our insights as part of a special issue focusing on talent.
And third we hosted several larger scale and higher profile member and client events in the quarter.
As I've discussed on previous calls these events are different from our traditional intimate executive gatherings.
While we've hosted more than 500 executive retreats so far this year we host only a handful of these large events every year.
They serve as an opportunity to gather senior stakeholders across a variety of key domains or markets to examine pressing issues and create public dialogue.
For example we gathered heads of sales and marketing in Las Vegas to explore the next generation of commercial talent.
We convened IT executives in London and in Chicago to discuss how to transform IT engagement with the business in an era of technology consumerization.
And finally we hosted events in South Africa and Stockholm as part of our global link series that engages clients with our SHL Talent Measurement Solutions.
We continue to raise -- I'm sorry we continue our work of raising the visibility of the CEB brand in 2014.
We are investing to build a clear compelling story about CEB in all of our markets and to ensure that we translate brand strength into commercial outcomes.
Let me close my remarks on Slide 13 with color on how our forward plans are shaping up.
While government headwinds may have created some challenges for near-term revenue we continue to see solid bookings in sales momentum.
We'll be looking to sustain and even accelerate the momentum with our eye toward 2014.
In addition there are several other steps we take at this time of year to lay the foundation for continued growth.
First ensuring we have a great team in place.
I'm pleased with our progress to-date in both attracting new talent to the firm and in developing our current talent to take on the next generation of market opportunities as the business grows and expands.
Second scoping our research initiatives.
As I mentioned earlier in my remarks we're constantly in the process of shaping high-impact high-value research based on input from the more than 16 000 executives we serve.
I'm confident the work we have underway will produce our most powerful economic insights to-date and the broadest array of member ROI imaginable.
Third continuing to enhance the technologies and platforms that connect our insights to members and their workflows.
We're working on a number of significant upgrades to the content management system supporting our online member experience and the online platform supporting our SHL Talent Measurement offerings.
These are major new platform upgrades that add exciting new capabilities for our clients and members that we've been investing in across 2014.
I expect we'll continue to invest in -- I'm sorry that we've been investing in across 2013 excuse me.
I'd expect that we'll continue to invest into 2014 even as we start to see the first real returns from these efforts.
And fourth shaping our financial profile.
Rich shared some detail on our forward guidance and we'll continue to work on building an investment plan that helps meet our financial commitments and growth aspirations.
Our aim is to balance strong financial returns with investments in the business that position CEB to tap the significant opportunity before us.
As of today we are targeting an organic revenue growth profile comfortably within our traditional 8% to 13% target range while expanding margins by at least 25 basis points and sustaining important investments in the business.
In summary we've made solid progress to-date and I'm looking forward to what is next.
Let me close with a note about my colleagues.
I along with Rich and our leadership team have the pleasure of working with some of the world's most talented and driven professionals.
I'm proud of their efforts and energized by our collective accomplishments.
Together we are determined to set our members and clients as well as CEB up for continued success.
We'll now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Tim McHugh with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> First I was going to ask about your commentary on 2014.
I guess the -- at least 25 basis points of margin improvement for next year I know you don't have your full plan done.
But can you talk about I guess the leverage of the investments you've described for this year? I thought 25 basis points is essentially your long-term kind of margin outlook that you had -- you've talked about in the past.
Shouldn't we expect a bigger lift next year as you leverage those? Or are you expecting that next year is not the year where we get leverage from those investments? Hey Tim.
It's Rich.
We certainly would expect some benefit from those investments in 2014 and we think that will be a positive overall on margin for next year.
We're continuing to plan the business in accordance with our strategy to grow revenues at those kind of rates.
And so we anticipate there'll be other investments that we'll continue to make as we always do.
We're obviously going to give you more specific guidance when we get to February and have our full year plan in place.
But that's kind of the zone that we're thinking about at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you -- at least 25 basis points does that mean 25? Or does that mean you're not committing to anything I guess other than that? Tim I guess the framing thought is it's early in the budgeting cycle.
So I think we're not giving '14 guidance today we're just trying to give you a sense of how the year is shaping up.
And I think from our vantage point comfortably within our traditional organic growth range and seeing opportunities for margin expansion with 25 basis points as the floor is where we start.
And then we sharpen our pencils and get to work on putting together the plan which we'll share with you as we've got a much clearer sense entering 2014.
But I think the theme there is early.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as we -- on the government side of the business in your commentary there did the market -- did you see your bookings trends get worse during the third quarter which I know is a seasonally important quarter for the government? Or is it just that you got past the big bookings period for the government and that's why now you're changing your guidance for that sector? It's more of the latter.
As we talked about we've been watching this sector all year.
And earlier in the year we were trying to figure out whether it was a timing issue where stuff that had normally happened in Q1 and Q2 was going to happen in Q3.
So we left a strong team in place didn't point the PDRI team at commercial opportunity et cetera to make sure we were there to capture opportunities as they came out during the vital Q3 bookings season.
So it's more of the latter of -- we were working hard through Q3 but we weren't able to reverse decisions that had been made earlier in the year and we thought we might be able to.
And now we have started the process of getting the PDRI team into the commercial sector et cetera.
So that -- we've begun to refocus some activity away from the federal sector even though it's very important to us.
We think it won't be a huge source of near-term opportunity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly just on SHL.
Can you talk about the -- how that really measured up relative to your expectations? I know you had said you -- before you had hoped it would be double digits this quarter.
I guess how much of the growth is an easy comparison? You had talked before that the year-ago period was not a particularly good one from an execution standpoint.
But there's also a seasonal trend.
So -- and can you help us read between those different factors and what kind of the underlying performance was? And how that measured up relative to what you expected? Yes.
At a very macro level the year is shaping up in the SHL business pretty much as we said it would earlier in this year.
We knew the growth would be a little more muted in the first half tracking to be in that 8% to 13% range by the second half and that's right where we find ourselves.
So we continue both in terms of revenue and in terms of sales to see good positive momentum in that business.
So I think at this point our progress likely reflects more just great execution by the team in place than huge impact of our investments if you just think of how long it takes a new sales person to get ramped up.
We're carrying the expense from some of those new salespeople but they're not yet having the impact of a seasoned mature sales team.
So at this point it's just great execution by the team in place on the ground but we're very comfortable that it's tracking where we wanted to see it be when we laid out the plan at the beginning of this year.
And we'll take our next question from Joseph Foresi with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> My first question here was I was wondering if you could break out for us kind of numerically on the revenue side what the impact was from currency and U.S.
government work in your revision on the guidance front.
Sure Joe.
This is Rich.
The -- if you look at the change in the midpoint of our guidance from where it was before to where it is now it's about a $13 million reduction.
And that breaks down into about $10 million from the U.S.
federal government business and roughly $3 million in impacts from FX through the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you gave sort of a rough idea of what we're thinking about for 2014 as far as targets.
What are you -- what's your general early sense and I know it's very early stage on the planning side of what the federal government could do next year as far as what is taking place traditionally? And then if we could just get an update on what percentage of revenue you're expecting that to be.
Sure sure.
Joe what we've seen is traditionally the federal sector has been about 5% of revenue.
And it won't be markedly different next year.
I just think we won't have -- this year we came into the year thinking we could grow our federal presence at call it 10-ish percent right around the corporate growth rate.
That assumption looks optimistic in retrospect.
The business is more likely to shrink this year by double digits then grow by double digits.
I don't think we see the federal sector changing.
Our plans don't contemplate the federal sector changing materially in the near term.
And I think that's driving some of our marginal resource allocation decisions.
So an easy example is the PDRI team has -- a portion of them are rotating over to spend some time developing out opportunities that we see in the commercial sector.
So this year we're planning for a more difficult federal sector -- I'm sorry in 2014 we're planning for a more difficult federal sector and making some resource allocations to capture that growth elsewhere.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So just to be clear are we talking flat or potentially declining again next year? Yes.
I think your guess is as good as mine but we are definitely allocating resources away assuming that at the very best it's flat.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then lastly on the SHL side.
Margins came in -- what should we think about -- have we bottomed from a margin perspective in that business from an investment schedule standpoint? And do -- what should we think about the trajectory of those margins compared to the consolidated business heading into next year? Yes.
I think Joe putting aside obviously the impact of FX which can swing margins positive or negative in the quarter I would think that third quarter in all likelihood represented a bottom in margins so we certainly expect better margins in the fourth quarter.
And I would -- at this stage of the planning cycle we would expect some improvement in 2014 as we start to get some initial contribution from the investments that we've made in that segment during the course of the year.
And will take our next question from Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Sort of a follow-up on the SHL question in the third quarter.
Do you expect SHL to do double-digit constant currency growth again in the fourth quarter? I'd say that's our baseline expectation at this point yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the easy comp a year ago didn't really help you that much.
But again it's not going to hinder you as we go forward? I mean I think we're -- again as we've said the plans -- the results at SHL are playing out largely as we had expected when we laid out plans at the beginning of the year for you.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then back to the increased sales force in North America when would you start to expect to see the benefit of that or at least have it neutral on the margin? Yes.
I mean as we've talked about we've been investing throughout the year.
The biggest increases have been in the second and third quarters in terms of additional headcount.
It typically takes 6 to 9 months before you start seeing initial impact from folks in those roles.
So it really is probably 2014 before you start seeing additional contribution from those investments.
We'll take our next question from Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask you a little bit more about the SHL growth rate.
And you talked a lot about the investments you made this year are not going to -- in the sales force are not going to have the impact this year.
Really it's going to impact next year.
Tom is there any way -- or is there opportunity for you to accelerate the hiring in this quarter to get more of those top sales guys that you like to get into the firm and kind of forget about the margin in the fourth quarter to set yourself up for continued success or even stronger success in 2014 and beyond? Yes.
One of the great things about our business Shlomo is we have great forward visibility around revenue and the plan for the year always contemplates pulling forward sales hiring in both the CEB segment and the SHL segment.
So we know what we can afford to do and that we build the year out around staffing up our sales teams.
I think you heard me say I was -- one of the foundational things we try to do at this time of year is get great people into the organization.
So when the gun sounds on 2014 we're ready to go.
I think we're making good progress on that.
And so we feel what we laid out in terms of guidance contemplates both continued solid performance in the business but contemplates continuing that hiring ramp that sets us up well in both businesses.
It's not an SHL phenomenon.
It's actually a CEB business.
We are always trying to build out the sales team so we get off to a fast start in the year.
Research Division</strong> You at all kind of holding back in the hiring to make sure you hit your guidance numbers or is it kind of you're hiring the best people as they come in anyway? I've seen Rich Lindahl think very seriously about lots of great investments and always evaluate them on a DCF basis.
I don't think I've ever seen Rich say don't hire a great salesperson who wants to come to work for CEB.
So the good news is our margin expectations leave us plenty of room to go get great people.
So I don't think we need -- we don't need to worry about running into that wall.
The challenge is as it always is finding enough CEB-caliber talent not finding P&amp;L room to bring them in.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the CEB growth looks pretty good.
Are you getting it more from cross-selling memberships? Or are you making more progress in terms of moving existing members to higher versions of the memberships the gold platinum diamond type thing? How is that working? I'd say kind of all the above.
The real news in the sector was just the government putting a real headwind on that end market in the let's say North America large corporate where we continue to see -- which is kind of our bellwether sector continue to see good progress on all those fronts and also good progress on upstream indicators like usage of online tools and platforms that paves the way for us to have both good price increase conversations and up-sell conversations and cross-sell conversations.
So I'd say it's all the above in the core business.
Research Division</strong> And are you -- where do we stand with middle market? Can you give us a qualitative sense as to what percentage of revenue is middle market right now? Yes it's in the low teens at this point in time and it's going well.
It continues to put up solid returns quarter-over-quarter and we're pleased with the continued progress in that part of our business so [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> And it's growing faster than corporate average? It's a little above the corporate average yes.
Yes.
It's growing a little bit as a percentage of overall revenue but not that much because large corporate is growing as well.
So that -- I think that's the way we'd like to see it unfold.
Research Division</strong> Then lastly for me just Europe you said that you sustained the momentum over there.
Does that mean that you're starting to make more improvement in starting to close the gap towards the corporate growth rates or is it hey we can't -- we're happy with what we've got right now and the fact that you're actually growing there vis-a-vis what the environment is is satisfying.
I'd never say -- and I don't think the team there would say they are yet satisfied because it is -- but the good news is we've now seen several quarters where consistently the team is able to get out and grow the business.
And they're not yet at the corporate growth rate but economies seem more stable executives are more performance- versus crisis-oriented.
We can get in there and have high-impact conversations.
Yes I think they'd love to -- we'd all love to see that be a near-term contributor to overall corporate growth.
But there's still some chop in some of those markets but it's good to see that team -- first of all they're executing incredibly well.
And secondly they're contributing to growth.
In the near term we don't anticipate they'd catch all the way up with the double-digit corporate growth rate.
But certainly given our penetration in that market over the long term it should be a great source of growth for the company.
And we'll take our next question from Tobey Sommer with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Question what was SHL's organic growth percentage in the quarter? And what is your expectation and what would you be -- consider a success in terms of reaccelerating that growth? What kind of level would that be? Well if you look at the growth at SHL in the quarter of adjusted revenue as compared to the pro forma adjusted revenue numbers that we have provided previously that was 7.9% on a nominal basis.
But if you adjust for the impact of currencies it was 10.8% on a constant currency basis.
In terms of -- in the future as we've said we expect that it will be -- it should be able to grow inside our 8% to 13% range and contribute to overall corporate growth rates.
And there's nothing at this point that changes our view on that going forward.
Yes it's now solidly in that range and as we look at sales pipelines et cetera going forward.
And obviously every one of our businesses wants to be in that range and every one of our businesses wants to try to get to the high end of that range.
And as we plan the business we look for the best marginal investment opportunity that gets us as a company there.
And we think that range is a good -- that the reason we picked that range is it nicely balances solid consistent organic growth and good economic leverage.
That range allows us to both create the necessary investments but also deliver good margin expansion across time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Rich where currencies stand at this point in the fourth quarter is there -- would you expect there to be kind of a known currency drag at this point in the fourth quarter? I think on balance currencies haven't moved a ton since September 30 but it's -- there's 2 more months left to go in the quarter.
So it's very difficult to say where we'll end the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
Okay.
And then I was wondering if you could give us a little bit of color about 2014 in terms of where you've allocated your investments in what emerging products and services you have.
Do you have an expectation for what domains may have slightly outsized growth within the targeted range in '14? Sure.
Tobey I think the good news is that there's actually very little news at the domain level.
All 5 core domains are chugging along nicely in the marketplace.
The theme of talent shows up all over the place though.
So I think you're -- that obviously is going to lift HR.
But as we said we've got talent measurement products now launched into IT sales and finance so 4 of our 5 domains are participating in the talent storyline.
And that's driven by member interest not by -- we're not the boys with the hammer who think everything is a nail.
We brought those assets out to those markets because those executives are deeply concerned about talent issues.
And we now have new tools to help them solve them.
So I think the domain growth will be pretty balanced.
The thematic growth will skew toward talent.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And my last question has to do with the brand transition.
How much money did you invest in doing that? Is it behind you and is there any kind of benefit to results in 2014? In other words is that a contributor to margin expansion next year? Yes.
I mean it represents a meaningful portion of the acquisition-related costs for 2013 probably less than 50% certainly of the total and a good chunk of what you saw in the third quarter was on the brand-related costs.
And we -- so I think obviously we don't expect integration-related costs post-12/31 this year.
So that those will all have flown through.
Over time you've seen us gingerly step up our investments in branding to drive lead flow and we've been pleased with the returns from that.
So that that will continue to be a theme but well within the margin expansion that we contemplate.
And we'll take our next question from David Ridley-Lane with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Just quickly on the U.K.
tax benefit.
That's completely happening in the third quarter correct? Yes that was a discrete event in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that wasn't -- and there was no adjustment made for that in the company defined adjusted EPS? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the implied full year tax rate that implies -- to get to 47 for the full year that implies a number greater than 50% for the fourth quarter.
Is that the right way to think about it? Yes it is.
There will be a lift in the fourth quarter.
Part of that is because the -- as I referenced in my remarks and you'll see more detail on the last page of the press release the way that the book versus tax treatment is coming through is some of it occurred in the third quarter and some of it is going to occur in the fourth quarter which will have an impact on the fourth quarter rate whereas we don't have that U.K.
rate change benefit that you saw in the third quarter helping to reduce the impact.
Research Division</strong> And again just to be clear you're not going to make an adjustment for the company defined adjusted EPS? No.
So the -- well we're adjusting out the impact of the goodwill impairment.
So on a non-GAAP basis there's neither the goodwill impairment nor any tax impact associated with it in the non-GAAP EPS.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then how are you tracking on the run rate for the SHL cost savings? I think the goal was $5 million by year end.
Yes we're still on track with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then would you expect any deferred revenue adjustment to linger on in 2014 or are we done with this as we end fourth quarter? Yes.
I mean I think it's certainly going to diminish but we're -- as we -- originally you'll recall we had about a $34 million total amount of the deferred revenue fair value adjustment.
We have so far recognized about $26 million of that through the quarters since the acquisition so that leaves about $8 million left.
That's going to continue to come through through the end of 2014 at a quarterly rate that will in all likelihood kind of continue to slowly diminish from where it was in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then would integration and related expenses be finished in the fourth quarter or will there be some of that in 2014 as well? No I think the 2013 is the -- will be the last year for recognizing integration-related expenses for SHL.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And thank you very much for breaking out the federal impact on revenue would you imagine there's a similar impact in terms of the $10 million on Contract Value as well or what would be the impact on Contract Value? Yes.
I mean I think the current Contract Value obviously reflects the lower revenue profile.
A portion of that $10 million is from PDRI which is not in Contract Value.
So the Contract Value impact is less than that.
It's probably less than 50%.
And we'll take our last question today from Gary Bisbee with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
I guess the first one just following up on the government revenue issue.
Is -- have you seen this in bookings to-date such that the actual revenue that you recognize will have a bigger impact in the next couple of quarters than the last couple of quarters? Or has it been bookings weakness all year such that it's already in revenues to-date in the last quarter or 2? Hey Gary.
It's Tom.
Yes.
I think we've seen some bookings weakness all year and we're counting on being able to take advantage of the open contracting window in Q3 to recapture some of it.
So that plus the fact that PDRI isn't a bookings business it's a revenue business means that the $10 million is scattered through -- not scattered through the year but spread through the year and largely reflected in how we see the rest of the year unfolding.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's not like we're going to see a meaningfully worse revenue impact in the next 2 quarters than we saw in the third quarter then? As it relates to government no.
No.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
As it relates to something else? You paused for a while.
No we're just trying to make sure we understood the question.
No that's -- no we're just -- but it's a bookings story that's been unfolding and a revenue story because of PDRI that's been unfolding 1 year -- all year.
And it'll be consistent in Q4 and the revised guidance contemplates that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then just thinking about the core CEB segment as -- and maybe x PDRI as we think about the investments you've made in 2013 and what's baked into the early commentary on '14 how do we think about the level of investment? Is it sort of stable within the core business or are there areas that you're going to be investing more next year? I guess I'm thinking -- just trying to think through the margins.
I understand there's a lot up in the air in SHL segment based on how the sales come in from all the investments you've made.
But what about the core CEB segment? I'd say obviously that we look at the core CEB segment and there's 2 basic categories of investment: One is things that are just variable in the business model so staffing up to make sure we have enough great sales and service people to both expand and handle the expansion of the book of business.
So doing that every year is always part of it and there's other things that come into play like advisory or faculty capacity that grows with revenue across time.
So that's common course and speed.
And then on the -- across the rest of the business there's always some fixed-cost investments you're making to step out and beef up a product area or add a new technology feature to all the platforms et cetera.
So there's some of that every year.
I think the net effect of all that is a world in which we're going to be in a position to deliver good growth next year and expand margins.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just the -- when you talk about -- I realize PDRI is small but when you talk about refocusing that on commercial opportunities how different is the business from the SHL business? And is it different enough that when you do so it's not trying to sell a reasonably similar service into the same people from 2 different angles? Yes.
No.
I think historically PDRI has had a lot of strength in the area of performance management which is distinct enough from the other conversations we're bringing out to the marketplace in SHL and those teams already work very well together.
So it's not a -- this isn't a new phenomenon.
PDRI has historically had a good following in the commercial sector.
The last few years they focused very much on a government build-out.
So in many respects we're just restoring some of that opportunity to the PDRI business and they'll work closely with their colleagues.
They already are working closely with their colleagues in the CEB segment and the SHL segment to make sure that performance management suite gets in front of people.
And we all -- as I said on the call we also -- every year we do feature set upgrades that drive price increases in the core CEB subscription business.
And this year it's a packaged up set of tools from PDRI and SHL which is -- so the team has also been working to get that built now and early returns from beta-tests there have been very positive.
So we're not asking the PDRI team to go do tricks they haven't done before.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a last one for me.
As we think to all the cash flow you'll generate next year any updated thoughts on how much further you'd like to reduce your leverage versus growing the dividend or share repurchases which I know you've always been somewhat resistant to doing that in more scale? Just updated thoughts given where we are now.
Yes.
I'd say at a high level the strategy remains very consistent with what it has been which is stay in a strong financial position.
I think when we think about leverage we're more focused on net leverage as the key driver there and the ratio of net-debt-to-adjusted-EBITDA which is tracking to the 2x range.
And we should be heading into that 1 to 2x target area in 2014.
As far as the dividend is concerned as you know we like the dividend in terms of how it highlights our earnings and cash flow characteristics of the model and we would expect to continue to increase the dividend in line with earnings and cash flow over time.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Monahan I'll turn the call back over to you for any closing remarks.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Let me just quickly summarize our earlier remarks.
Our performance in the third quarter was characterized by solid and consistent growth across the majority of our businesses.
Progress was slowed a bit by headwinds in the government sector which we talked about.
And while we don't expect these to change in the near term our strength in other areas of the business gives us great confidence as we close 2013 and set up for a strong 2014.
Thanks to everybody for calling and/or logging into today's event.
Rich and I will see many of you on our travels over the next few months.
We'll be at the JPMorgan and SunTrust events in November and at the Barclays event in December.
We look forward to seeing you on the road and keeping you up-to-date on the CEB story.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now take our first question from Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Tom I was just expecting maybe a little bit more growth from SHL with the recent sales hires in the U.S.
and the better macro environment in Europe how -- I know you gave some comments you'll grow faster this year than next but how do you expect to do that? Maybe some just color on how you expected to ramp through the year trends in Europe with the better hiring and how that new -- these new U.S.
sales hires are ramping? Paul obviously we think the Talent Measurement business there's huge runway in front of it and we're pleased with the consistent global growth that we're now generating.
Yes coming into the year we did face that unusual challenges.
Some revenues pulled forward into 2013 as customers accelerated delivery of some key milestones.
This had an optical double whammy in that we lost revenue from 2014 that actually faced this deeper comp.
It's important to remember that in this business as in the CEB business it's a relatively slower seasonal quarter which makes it harder to grow faster off and even in relatively easier comp.
You see the strong Wallet retention metrics which we're doing a great job with the customers we have.
It's not a quarter where we add a ton of new business.
I'm actually pleased with the work that the team did to both grow through that revenue headwind and build strong sales pipeline.
You can see from our healthy deferred revenue growth we got out of the gates fast in 2014.
For the full year we still expect a higher growth rate than last year and we'll keep expanding margins off the investments we made.
And I'm very pleased with the performance of the new sales hires.
You'll recall it takes probably 2 years for a new sales person to get what we call sort of sales force average productivity.
And most of these folks are still in the role for less than a year.
So given where they are they're at a high level of proficiency already and we'll expect to see them continue to mature across the year.
So all in all we're pleased with the way this business is tracking and there some optics in the first quarter.
Do you want to talk about what the growth rate would be if you...
Yes.
I think if you -- Paul this is Rich.
If you would -- as we mentioned we had about $5 million of revenue pull-forward into fourth quarter from first quarter.
Some of that was in the CEB segment some of that was in the SHL segment.
If you took the SHL portion and applied that to growth in the first quarter you would have had a rate that was closer to 11% than the roughly 7% that we are reporting.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And Tom just what are your salespeople in Europe in U.K.
saying about sort of receptivity just as European employment returns to growth is that helping a little bit? Yes.
As I said on the call we're seeing the growth rates converge across the regions.
And that's -- I wouldn't say it's easy but I think our European team in particular is poised to generate strong growth throughout the year.
We've seen that now for a couple of quarters.
And as I said they're in a position where we could by the end of the year see growth rates normalize between North America and Europe.
Research Division</strong> On KnowledgeAdvisors one I guess what type of growth rate do you think you could achieve for that business over the next couple of years? And are the things you can do with the cost structure to take cost out or is it more that you hope just to grow the business and scale the costs and therefore it's a matter of time I guess before you can get better profitability out of that business.
Sure.
Tim the KnowledgeAdvisors business was already growing at a higher rate than the core CEB organic growth rates so it's already a solid grower.
There are definitely some administrative leverage points think of them more as money they won't have to spend by being part of our platform that become cost synergies over time.
And it like all of other businesses is a fixed cost business so as we grow it it should grow comfortably in the CEB style margin.
So we'd expect to see healthy growth and margin expansion over the next several years.
And we'd expect the growth rate to be a net add to the CEB overall growth rate though it is a small portion of it.
So growing the big thing is also really important to us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 2 numbers questions I guess.
Rich can you help us -- the client growth if we excluded KnowledgeAdvisors I'm not sure if you gave the client impact of KnowledgeAdvisors.
And then can you talk about the Wallet retention for SHL? I'm never quite sure of what to make of that metric sometimes but it picked up a fair amount this quarter.
So what does that imply to us? So the client growth if you excluded KnowledgeAdvisors would have been about 100 150 basis points lighter than what we reported.
So that definitely helped a little bit in the quarter.
And I'm sorry what was your second question? Research Division</strong> The Wallet retention for SHL.
What's the revenue -- you talked about revenue growth but it was up quite a bit year-over-year at least.
What factors were underlying that I guess? What does that tell us about the activity there? I mean it's certainly a reflection of the cumulative improvement in the growth trajectory that you've seen in SHL over the last year.
You'll recall that growth certainly coming out of the second half of 2012 and into the early part of 2013 was significantly less than what we've been seeing over the last several quarters here.
And so that's really just that cumulative impact you're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly just one I guess very detailed -- in this -- in terms of the adjusted earnings that we've been calculating.
We've been using I think it's like a 28% 29% tax rate to adjust the deferred revenue.
Do we still do that with the KnowledgeAdvisors part or the deferred revenue associated with that business given it's U.S.-based? That's going to be a slightly higher tax rate for that adjustment.
It'll be more like in the 40% area.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if we could get just a little bit more detail on the KnowledgeAdvisors margin profile and timeframe? I think they're in below company average.
Maybe you can give us some idea like what the margin profile is now what your targets are for the end of this year and heading into next year.
I know you're going to realize some cost synergies and those are going to expand.
But I just want to see sort of how you're thinking about the trajectory for that.
Sure.
I mean in the first quarter it was negative margin just based on kind of getting started.
There's some seasonality in the revenue profile there.
And we expect that to ramp up as we go through the rest of the year.
And so for the full year we expect margins to be slightly positive somewhere in the single digits on a margin basis.
As we move forward into next year as Tom said we expect to be able to have that business benefit from being part of a larger platform.
And as revenue continues to grow further we'd expect margin improvement into next year and beyond.
I hesitate to give you a specific margin target for next year at this stage but obviously we'll keep you posted as we set targets for next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then SHL I mean now that we've got the I believe the U.S.
sales force built out what's a good margin profile for that over the long term? I mean will we get a return to sort of the peak margins that we saw before? Or what should we think about for the margin profile for that over the long term? Yes we certainly -- that remains our objective and our target and our expectation that over time we're going to get back into that range again.
Clearly that's not implied in our guidance for this year.
But I think you'll see improvement for the full year this year versus last year and we would expect further improvement again next year.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And last one from me on the Contract Value site.
There was an uptick even if you exclude some of the acquisition activity.
Are we to take that that's because you're seeing an incremental pickup in Europe? I mean how should we think about that Contract Value uptick? And how should we think about the trajectory for that through the year? Yes I think we feel pretty good with the start we get off to around the world.
I think the story is probably -- certainly the fact that Europe is now part of the overall corporate story and no longer a drag but I wouldn't miss the fact that North America as a whole is off to a solid start and out of the gates fast.
So we've got lots of work ahead but I'm pleased with how fast we got out off the gates.
And I think the story is as much one of breadth as any specific region.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to get your perspective of -- in the fourth quarter you had some -- an uptick in client activity as they were getting ready for some planning activities for this year.
What does it felt like through the first 4 months of 2014? Do you feel like customers are lengthening their planning horizons and therefore the kind of things they're engaged in reflect that? Tobey I'd say the biggest shift we've seen is the story is no longer different across regions.
I don't think anyone is predicting booming revenue growth anywhere but I'd say consistently people are now planning for a modest but healthy growth and that's true even in Europe.
And therefore they're making -- they need help making business decisions.
No one is -- if you look at the data what we see is lot of people playing for very modest revenue growth.
And CFOs in particular are desperate to cling to some of the cost gains they've made through the downturn.
So they're looking for a lot of help for us about how do I eke out some revenue growth but not let the cost equation follow too quickly.
So a lot of the questions are about optimization of resources you can imagine that place pretty well into the stories we're architecting for them and with them.
So we're pleased with the pretty consistent global message.
I think it's positive but it's an environment that rewards precision which is the type of environment we like a lot.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> How are you prioritizing and allocating your investment dollars this year? And what change might you foresee to that ranking as we look into 2015? I think job one in any given year is always make sure we have a great team in the field to go out and be toe-to-toe with customers impacting their business and opening up new opportunities.
And I don't think that's changed much.
We're certainly very pleased with the hiring and retention success we've enjoyed.
We've got a great team out in the field both seasoned people continuing to grow and mature and new people coming onboard and joining the CEB team.
So that's in any given year job one.
And then job two is continuing to invest to make the products and services ever more relevant that has a component of new product introduction and product evolution and you've heard us talk about some of our larger technology investments to make sure that we're getting ever more tightly tied to member workflows.
I don't think the order of those has changed at all and I'm pleased actually with the progress we're making so far this year on both fronts.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering you obviously made to need -- well it sounds like need little acquisitions.
Are there any glaring gaps I guess in your solution that you see where we should be thinking about M&amp;A focus for you guys? I think originally after we did the SHL acquisition we indicated that we had more than enough in our hands integrating the acquisition and beginning to get after synergies.
I think importantly that work still continues.
You heard me talk about getting the HIPO in sites we had in Leadership Councils blended into our product for Talent Measurement customers.
So at the same time you -- to Richard's point when you adjust for the revenue moving to Q4 that business is off to a very healthy start this year.
So we're starting to keep our eyes open for new product development more broadly.
That's going to have a flavor of organic product development and it's going to have -- here and there we'll find someone's built an interesting tool solutions that confronts a member need.
I don't think there's a specific gap that we feel exposure on.
We certainly believe that there are lots and lots of parts of the talent management life cycle that are made -- where decisions are made with intuition or gut instinct that we think we can bring some science and rigor to.
The bulk of that will be developing the great assets we have.
But here and there we may spot something that meets a critical member need and go ahead and transact it.
We happen to do it twice this quarter but I think more of the news in the ensuing years will be about combining the great assets we have in new ways.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I apologize if I missed this earlier but on the SHL side.
I mean I guess the -- I think it was 6.9% constant currency came in below your sort of I guess 8% to 13% standard long-term guidance.
So just wondering anymore color around that and if we should still expect that range for the rest of the year.
Probably 3 thoughts.
One is we think of that 8% to 13% as an annualized number.
And certainly in this business there is seasonal effects.
So Q1 is going to be a slow -- slower quarter in that business.
Two as Rich said if you just add back the customer slippage that we saw into Q -- the pull-forwards into Q4 the business grew revenue at a probably an 11 percentage rate.
And then third you saw a healthy deferred revenue growth in that business which implies that the sales team got out and did a great job building the sales pipeline first and then converting that into bookings.
And so across the year I think this business is on the track we expect it to and will be in that zone that we'd like to see it in.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last.
All the M&amp;A contribution this quarter was in the CEB line is that correct? That's correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I had been under the impression that the $5 million pull-forward revenue was largely CEB.
Can you give us a split? What was the -- how much was SHL? How much was CEB please? So roughly 60-40 CEB to SHL.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how should we think about the margin impact that that had? Was -- is there a cost a large cost associated with that? Or should we think of it more like that revenue recognition change a couple of years ago where some revenue shifted costs were unchanged and so there was a dramatic plus and minus depending on the quarter impact from margin.
Since a lot of that was based on completing deliveries of some key milestones the cost would have already been incurred by the time we recognized the revenues.
So there wasn't a cost slip into first quarter on a relative basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> So then is it right to say that if we were trying to think about a normalized trend over the last couple of quarters that the fourth quarter margins -- I mean just doing the back of the envelope math it seems like maybe they were overstated that's probably a wrong term but benefited by about 200 basis points? And this quarter was hurt by about 200 basis points.
Am I in the right zip code with the math I'm doing there? I mean certainly that the revenue swing would have benefited margin last quarter and bit of a headwind on margin this quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> And sorry to keep at this but with the core CEB segment this is the weakest margin in many years going back to the recession really.
And I understand M&amp;A dilution that you referenced the $0.04 of earnings was part of that.
It looks like that's roughly $2.5 million.
It's still even if you add that back would have been lower than it's been in a while.
What other factors were impacting the CEB segment margin? Yes.
I mean I think obviously there's the revenue impact that we talked about.
There's also the impact of foreign exchange.
I talked about how in the CEB segment that was about a 60 basis point headwind on margins in the quarter based on where -- how rates have moved over the course of the year.
And then the other was we talked last quarter about how we have been doing a fair amount of forward hiring in the CEB segment and then Tom and I both referenced how we've had good retention in the first quarter.
And so that sets us up well to achieve our targets for the rest of year but it certainly had an impact on cost coming into the first quarter.
Think about that as the average start day in the quarter of a new CEB hire moving from sometime in February or March to January and picking up a little more cost.
We'd take that 100x.
Yes.
100 because you get them into the training systems they're in sooner you got more stuff happening.
But on -- and it normalizes out over the quarters and some other expenses we would have incurred no longer show up.
But that did put a little bit of a headwind into margin in the quarter for a very healthy reason.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that -- or is that pretty well spread across the types of employees or is it -- is that -- was it more towards sales or member relations customer service type or...
Yes.
It would have been disproportionately in the member relations and marketing line is where you would have seen that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last one from me.
Do you have a sense at this point how much the KnowledgeAdvisors adds to amortization? Is that the primary reason that the D&amp;A expense within the guidance for the full year went up? Or is there something else going on there? Yes that is the primary reason for the lift in the D&amp;A guidance yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Just had a few -- just the KnowledgeAdvisor growth.
How fast was it growing before you bought it? And where do you think the free cash flow potential of the business could go? In other words just getting back to where the margins of that business can that margins of that business approach CEB margins? And is there some operational synergies in terms of products that you can develop together with them so on and so forth? Sure.
KA was growing at a rate that would be accretive to the overall CEB growth rate.
So -- they were a private company so they had not outrun cash.
And as a result there are probably some growth left on the table by having -- brought access to a broader market which is obviously what we bring.
Over time we expect this business wrenched pretty neatly into CEB's style of margins.
I wouldn't expect obviously not this year probably it doesn't get all the way there next year either.
Part of that is we want to maintain an up-selling capacity that is the CEB front engine or its marketing leads great conversations.
There's -- we have enough hands in place to capture that and turn it into revenues.
So we'll get some administrative scaling out of bringing the businesses together.
We probably will keep good effective selling and servicing capacity in that business as it continues to ramp.
But I think it can be certainly accretive to CEB revenue growth rate across the next couple of years.
But also we'll see some margin expansion.
So we're very excited about it.
As to joint product development I was -- that member quote was funny[ph] members were ahead of us on this one -- and they've already said well what if you combine this and that you're going to expect there is a team looking hard at ways in which we can take -- do 2 things really.
One is just there is great data in the business that's immediately valuable to our existing installed base of subscribers.
And we saw that play out very effectively with SHL where suddenly we had whole new categories of data about effectiveness of different constituencies.
You can imagine KnowledgeAdvisors really training intensive communities like sales or IT et cetera.
They're going to be really interested at looking at aggregate data around what works and what doesn't.
So we'll take that play first and then second play will be finding ways to make sure that we blend and link the products in new and powerful ways.
So we're excited about this asset.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And just on some math.
PDRI is it fair to assume it was a little bit less than 1% headwind on top line growth.
That's kind of where I'm trying to parse it but I don't know how much more or less it could be.
I'm talking about on the CEB business in particular.
I mean you'll note that we haven't broken that out specifically.
It's at the point now it's part of the segment and we're managing it like all the other pieces of the segment.
I will say that the quarterly revenue was very much in line this quarter with where it was last quarter.
And so on a year-over-year basis if you go back and look at what we disclosed last year on PDRI revenue you would have seen that that would have been a revenue decline year-over-year.
So obviously that was a bit of headwind deal yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then clearly the quarter -- the numbers in this quarter came out lower than what kind of the street numbers we're looking for.
And I just want you to comment a little bit on -- you guys have an internal expectations you don't give quarterly guidance can you talk about where the numbers came out vis-à-vis what you were thinking yourselves going into the quarter? And then do you feel incrementally better about your ability to achieve the core business excluding acquisitions? Kind of the guidance that you put out last quarter do you feel the same do you feel worse how do you feel vis-à-vis last quarter? I'd say at the top line setting aside 2 factors that we wouldn't have incorporated into our previous guidance.
One would have been FX it would give some sense of how that was likely to trend and the acquisition costs.
I think beyond that we feel very good about the start of the year.
As always the start of the year is really important to us from a bookings perspective a staffing perspective and a momentum perspective and we're -- on those fronts we feel great.
If those things are going well usually the margin start to take care of itself over the course of the year.
So setting aside a few things we had and obviously contemplated in setting the guidance that we laid out for you we're feeling very good about the start of the year.
Research Division</strong> What's been the typical network effect that CEB brings to some of the smaller acquisitions that you've done in the past? I'm thinking about -- if you take Warrillow and TowerGroup a kind of culture et cetera and you look at how much cross-selling there was in those acquisitions say 12 months or 24 months out there? What's been your typical success in the cross-selling into the base? I think historically we've been pleased with the progression.
I think the -- we've learned over time that the immediate impact as you saw with SHL is one of -- there is some transition period et cetera.
So even though we're excited about how fast we're going to allocate so both Talent Neuron and KnowledgeAdvisors there is still going to be some -- learning each other's businesses learning the right plug-in points.
But over time as we lift some of the great contents and great messaging out of those businesses and communicate it properly to our customer base you see a good healthy ability to continue to reach new markets and introduce these assets into a much broader customer base.
So overall we've been pleased.
Obviously every time we do it there is lessons from last one.
And you can safely assume we're incorporating those into these next 2.
Research Division</strong> And then I haven't seen -- and maybe you've been making internal investments but I haven't seen M&amp;A investments on the IT or the CIO space for a while.
I'm wondering if that sort of a conscious decision or is it just that the HR space has more attractive M&amp;A targets? I think there's really 2 things going on there Dave.
One is our IT business as we've talked actually last several quarters has been a real area of help for us.
A lot of the work we've done the future of Corporate IT and the changing nature and rules of the Corporate IT organization has been incredibly well received and that's been -- powered greater growth in the business.
Second it would be no -- the talent theme partly because of the changing nature of Corporate IT has been a really important message to CIOs and their teams.
One of the first things we did with the SHL business was build an IT functional talent assessment product.
Our IT Leadership Academy is a great example.
So when we talk about talent we're not -- explicitly about HR we're looking at the special talent within the primary markets we serve.
And IT has been a real hotbed of growth for those products as well as CIOs and their teams are looking at a pretty big recomposition of the types of talent they need to execute.
So when you say talent it means actually talent broadly not just HR.
Obviously HR is a critical primary market for us but it's not the only one for the talent assets.
And IT given the scale the size of your average Corporate IT department tends to be a very healthy consumer of some of these assets we talked about Talent Neuron probably as often being purchased by the CIO as by the Head of HR.
So if you're looking from an M&amp;A standpoint you could almost call that an IT asset because CIOs are the ones thinking about where do I put my next development center? Where do I do quality assurance et cetera? Where should I off-shore where should I on-shore? Where is the next hotbed for key analytics talents? And that's what Talent Neuron does very very well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it that's helpful.
And then a quick one for Rich did I get this right FX impact $0.06 in the quarter and you still expecting $0.08 for the full year? Well it was $0.06 in the quarter that includes both the -- that includes the margin impacts from year-over-year costs as well as the other income remeasurement loss.
When we talk about our 80 basis point impact on the full year recognize that the big change in FX rates occurred pretty much at around the third quarter.
So you're seeing more of the impact earlier in the year than -- assuming rates stay where they are right now than you would see later in the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So it's -- I did get that right it's just the timing of the FX notes.
Exactly.
Thank you again for calling and/or logging in to today's event.
Let me just close the call by quickly summarizing my early remarks.
Our Q1 performance has put us on a good path to stay to our financial goals for 2014.
There's obviously much work ahead to sustain our revenue momentum and celebrate returns on our operating and capital investments and advance our strategic position.
But I'm confident that our strong start sets us up for the year end.
Rich and I look forward to seeing many you in our travels over the next few months.
We will be at the BofA and JPMorgan events in May as well as the Blair event in June.
We will also hold our Annual Investor Day on June 18 in our Arlington Virginia offices.
Those of you who've attended in prior years know that we use this event to share even more detail about our strategy and operations including demonstrations of our latest offerings and exposure to our management team.
It's shaping up to be in an engaging day.
And you can contact June Connor if you're interested in attending.
Thank you again for calling in.
We look forward to keeping you updated on the CEB story.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to CEB's Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through August 8 by dialing (719) 457-0820.
The replay passcode is 3612580.
The replay will also be available beginning later today and through August 8 at the company's website.
To the extent any non-GAAP financial measures discussed in today's call you will also find a reconciliation of that measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated according to GAAP by going to the company's website and reviewing yesterday's news release.
You will also find a PDF of the supporting materials that the company will use in its prepared remarks this morning by going to the company's website and following the link to the second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Please review the second page of these materials which includes important information about any forward-looking information included in the presentation.
This conference call may also contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements among others regarding CEB's expected quarterly and annual financial performance for fiscal 2014 or beyond.
For this purpose any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing discussions of forecast estimates targets plans beliefs expectations and the like are intended to identify the forward-looking statements.
You're hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by important factors among others set forth in CEB's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its second quarter news release.
Consequently actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statement.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the conference over to the company's Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Richard Lindahl.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
I'm Rich Lindahl Chief Financial Officer of CEB.
Thank you for calling or logging into our second quarter 2014 earnings report.
On today's call I'll review our second quarter financial results and discuss our 2014 guidance.
Tom Monahan our CEO will then take over to share additional insight on our operations in the quarter and an update on our 2014 priorities.
Then we will take your questions.
Please turn to Slide 3 of our presentation where we lay out the key takeaways from today's report.
Overall we were pleased with our second quarter performance which was consistent with the expectations we set on our last call.
The business produced broad-based growth across our primary markets.
As a result we saw sequential improvements in revenue margin and non-GAAP earnings as well as strong growth in the year-to-date cash flows from operations.
The quarter also saw us write down our PDRI carrying value based on continued headwinds in the government sector that impact our long-term assumptions for this asset.
We continue to follow our capital allocation priorities paying out a healthy dividend and initiating a programmatic approach to stock buybacks.
Finally for the consolidated company our second quarter performance keeps us on track to achieve our strategic and financial objectives and we are reaffirming our full year outlook.
Let's turn to Slide 4 for a summary recap of our results.
Revenue was $230.4 million in the second quarter of 2014 an increase of 12.6% on a year-over-year basis.
Adjusted EBITDA margin was 23.3% in the second quarter compared to 24.6% in the second quarter of 2013.
Second quarter 2014 diluted loss per share was $0.19 compared to diluted earnings per share of $0.40 in the second quarter of 2013.
And non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.75 in the quarter versus $0.73 in the comparable prior year quarter.
Diluted loss per share in the quarter reflects the impacts of 2 items that have been adjusted out when calculating non-GAAP earnings per share.
First we recognized a $39.7 million noncash impairment loss associated with the carrying value of our PDRI business.
As we have discussed in our 10-Q filings for several quarters the federal contracting market continues to be difficult and we have now also seeing an increase number of opportunities become low-margin time and materials based engagements.
The combination of these trends affects our near and longer-term strategy and expectations for the PDRI business and led us to conclude there was an impairment indicator.
Accordingly this charge reflects the impact of our revaluation of the related goodwill and intangible assets.
PDRI remains a small part of our portfolio and our performance across the rest of our business keeps us on track with our plans for the year.
Second we realized a $6.6 million gain on our cost method investment in pay scale.
While we continue to maintain both an operating relationship and an ownership stake in that business we marked up the fair value of our investment based on its recent equity transaction.
Now let's turn to Slide 5 and I'll review our key operating metrics for the quarter.
CEB segment Contract Value at June 30 was $641.1 million which is up 13% year-over-year.
For the SHL Talent Measurement segment adjusted revenue was $55.5 million in the second quarter an increase of 9.3% compared to the prior year.
On a constant currency basis SHL Talent Management adjusted revenue growth was 7.7%.
CEB segment Wallet retention rate was 99% at June 30 2014 unchanged from a year ago.
SHL Talent Measurement segment Wallet retention rate was 104% at June 30 versus 96% in the prior year.
Wallet retention in both segments remains in the normal range and continues to provide a solid platform for overall growth in revenue.
Total CEB segment member institutions grew 11.9% to 6 780 in the second quarter reflecting the addition of KnowledgeAdvisors as well as continued growth in the CEB segment middle market and large corporate memberships.
CEB segment Contract Value per member institution was $94 400 at June 30 which is a 1% year-over-year increase reflecting the mix impact from middle market members.
To illustrate this affect CEB segment Contract Value per institution at June 30 was $144 300 for large corporate members and $29 400 in middle market representing annual increases of 0.9% and 7.5% respectively.
Please turn to Slide 6 and I'll review key segment highlights for the quarter.
CEB segment revenue was $175.4 million in the second quarter an increase of 11.8% versus the second quarter of 2013.
CEB segment revenue is net of a $1.5 million deferred revenue fair value adjustment and includes $4.1 million of inorganic revenue.
As compared to the prior year SHL Talent Measurement segment revenue increased 15.2% to $55.1 million in the second quarter of 2014 and SHL Talent Measurement segment revenue includes a $400 000 reduction to reflect the deferred revenue fair value adjustment.
Consolidated operating expenses were in line with our expectations.
Cost of services increased $9.2 million versus the second quarter of 2013.
Approximately 30% of this growth is due to acquired companies with the balance coming from increased headcount as well as delivery resources and other variable costs associated with the larger customer base.
Member relations and marketing expense increased $9.3 million in the second quarter versus the prior year.
Talent Neuron and KnowledgeAdvisors represent about 20% of this change.
The remaining growth reflects additional sales headcount and variable compensation expense across both the CEB and SHL Talent Measurement segments.
General and administrative cost in the second quarter were up $2.5 million compared to the prior year and approximately 32% of this increase is from the acquired companies.
Acquisition-related costs of $1.1 million in the second quarter were driven primarily by integration costs.
Interesting common other was a net expense of $1.4 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared to net expense of $300 000 in the second quarter of 2013.
This year-over-year change was primarily due to larger foreign currency remeasurement expense partially offset by a gain on deferred compensation plan assets.
Interest expense in the second quarter of 2014 was $4.5 million compared to $6.2 million in the second quarter of 2013 reflecting the benefit of our August 2013 credit facility amendment.
Consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin in the second quarter was 23.3% versus 24.6% in the second quarter of 2013.
This outcome is consistent with the expectations we discussed at our recent Investor Day and the year-over-year change was driven primarily by acquisitions foreign exchange and the other operating expense drivers just discussed.
In the CEB segment adjusted EBITDA margin in the quarter was 25.3% reflecting the impact of recent acquisitions and foreign exchange rate differences including a $1.7 million FX remeasurement loss.
Altogether currency drove about a 140 basis point year-over-year margin headwind in the CEB segment.
Adjusted EBITDA margin for the SHL Talent Measurement segment was 16.9% which included a net foreign currency remeasurement loss in the quarter of $300 000 or approximately 60 basis points.
In addition the net revenue and operating expense impact of FX rates reduced adjusted EBITDA margin by about 80 basis points.
Depreciation and amortization in the second quarter was $18.4 million an increase of $3.7 million compared to the second quarter of 2013 driven by higher capital expenditures over the past year as well as increased intangible amortization.
We recorded a tax benefit of $2.2 million in the second quarter reflecting the treatment of the PDRI impairment loss.
The goodwill portion of the impairment loss while recognized as an expense for book purposes is not deductible for tax purposes.
Therefore it will increase our effective tax rate for the year.
While we normalized out part of this impact in adjusted net income this quarter additional amounts will be added back in each of the third and fourth quarters of this year.
Please refer to Footnote 2 on Page 13 of our earnings press release for more information.
Please turn now to Slide 7 for balance sheet and cash flow highlights.
We remain in a healthy financial position with $95.2 million of cash at June 30.
Accounts receivable was $206.7 million and the current portion of deferred revenue was $428.4 million.
As compared to the prior year CEB segment deferred revenue excluding PDRI and KnowledgeAdvisors increased 7.6% to $351.7 million a positive leading indicator for CEB segment revenue.
We ended the quarter with $510.7 million of total debt on the balance sheet and our ratio of net debt to trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA was approximately 2x.
We also maintained access to additional liquidity via the $193 million of undrawn availability under our revolver.
For the first 6 months of 2014 cash flows from operation were $90.2 million consistent with typical seasonal patterns and an increase of 16.1% compared to the first 6 months of 2013.
During the second quarter we spent $12.8 million on capital expenditures as we neared completion of several 2014 technology initiatives including deployment of new data centers and the new TalentCentral platform for our SHL Talent Measurement business.
We continue to focus primarily on dividends for cash distribution given the attractive margin and cash flow characteristics of our business and we paid $8.9 million in dividends during the second quarter.
We also repurchased 5.2 million of stock during the second quarter.
We now have approximately $42 million of authorization remaining under the stock repurchase plan that expires on December 31 2014.
As Tom will discuss more fully management has adopted a programmatic approach to purchases for the balance of this year and currently anticipates the full year 2014 buyback amount will be approximately $15 million.
Please turn to Slide 8 and we'll move on to our outlook.
The following comments are intended to fall under the Safe Harbor provisions outlined at the beginning of the call and are based on preliminary assumptions which are subject to change over time.
Based on our second quarter results and current leading indicators and while contemplating various risks and opportunities we continue to track toward the midpoint of our outlook ranges.
We expect CEB's full year 2014 adjusted revenue to be between $910 million and $935 million and the reduction in revenue from the deferred revenue fair value adjustment will be approximately $6 million this year.
So the GAAP revenue outlook remains between $904 million and $929 million.
Our current visibility leads us to expect CEB segment top line to grow in the low double digits for the year as healthy growth in the legacy CEB business is complemented by the addition of Talent Neuron and KnowledgeAdvisors while offset to some degree by continued headwinds in government markets.
We continue to expect that SHL Talent Measurement will support stronger full year growth in 2014 and 2013 on a constant currency basis.
However it's also important to remember that the year-over-year growth comparisons to 2013 get tougher especially in the fourth quarter of the year.
We continue to expect full year adjusted EBITDA margin of between 24.5% and 25%.
Accordingly we expect higher consolidated margins in the second half of 2014 driven by typical seasonal improvement in the CEB segment greater contribution from recent acquisitions and improved operating leverage in the SHL Talent Measurement segment.
Depreciation and amortization in 2014 is expected to be between $70 million and $72 million.
This increase over 2013 is driven by amortization of newly acquired intangibles higher capital expenditures and the completion of several multiyear projects.
Capital expenditures in 2014 are anticipated to be approximately $31 million to $35 million which is consistent with our target range of 3% to 4% of revenue.
For the full year we expect acquisition-related cost of approximately $3 million on transaction expenses and other integration costs.
And now an update on taxes.
For book purposes the tax treatment of the goodwill portion of the PDRI impairment loss will drive a higher effective tax rate on a fully reported GAAP basis than previously targeted for this year.
As a result the 2014 tax rate is currently estimated to be approximately 50% excluding discrete items such as foreign currency gains or losses that are recognized as incurred.
On a non-GAAP basis as discussed a few minutes ago we will normalize the goodwill portion of the impairment loss.
After factoring in this adjustment we are now forecasting an effective rate of approximately 40% for the full year excluding discrete items as previously mentioned.
One other item of note as we look ahead to the third quarter.
You may have seen our announcement last week that we plan to move our global headquarters in 2018 and become the marquee tenant in a new building to be named CEB Tower.
As part of our long-term real estate planning process we are excited about this opportunity to support our future headcount growth with highly flexible and cost-effective space.
While the economic impact of this transaction will not be reflected in our financials for several more years the accounting treatment related to certain landlord incentives we are receiving requires us to record a noncash expense item in the third quarter.
This charge which we currently anticipate will be approximately $15 million will become a component of adjusted net income and therefore will not affect non-GAAP diluted earnings per share or adjusted EBITDA margin.
Incorporating all of these factors our outlook for 2014 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is in the range of $3.15 to $3.40.
This guidance reflects solid revenue growth improving constant currency adjusted EBITDA margin modest contribution from KnowledgeAdvisors and lower interest costs all somewhat offset by a increase in depreciation expense and the impact of foreign exchange.
Net-net with half the year behind us we are tracking more towards the midpoint of our guidance ranges.
And as previously discussed we expect the largest portion of year-over-year earnings growth to be back end loaded into the fourth quarter.
Finally we continue to expect strong cash generation in 2014 and at the ratio of cash flows from operations to adjustment net income we'll remain at a healthy multiple consistent with historical patterns.
While we don't provide quarterly guidance I'll share a few thoughts on what to expect as we move through the rest of the year.
Regarding revenue we expect typical sequential quarterly increases in the CEB segment.
In the SHL Talent Measurement segment we anticipate a seasonal sequential decline in the third quarter with a return to sequential growth in the fourth quarter.
The combination of these 2 factors should mean that third quarter consolidated revenue will be relatively flat to slightly down versus the second quarter.
On the expense side aggregate trends in both segments should remain relatively flat through the rest of the year with seasonality driving some sequential decline in the third quarter followed by a sequential increase in the fourth quarter.
Accordingly at the consolidated level we expect sequential improvements in both quarterly consolidated margins and earnings with a more meaningful lift in the fourth quarter than in the third.
And at the segment level in the third quarter you should expect a sequential decline in SHL margin followed by a sequential increase in the fourth quarter while CEB segment margin should improve sequentially in both quarters.
That's it for the financial summary.
I'll now turn the call over to Tom who will share more color on our operations and growth strategy Thank you Rich.
Let me add my welcome to everyone who has joined for today's call.
We appreciate the opportunity to keep you updated on the CEB story.
I'll use my remarks to provide additional perspective on our first half 2014 performance and to update you on our multiyear priorities for delivering growth and impact.
As Rich noted the headline in the quarter is that our performance keeps us on track to achieve our strategic and financial objectives for the year.
I'll begin on Slide 9 with some additional color on our overall performance to date and highlights within each of our end markets.
Our second quarter results reflect healthy organic growth across nearly all of our businesses.
Continuing a trend from the first quarter the results reflect fewer regional variances than we've seen in the past few years.
Obviously we're pleased to see growth coming from many parts of the business.
Let me provide some color on each market.
I'll start with our CEB segment.
In North America our largest and oldest market we saw continued strength in both our large corporate and middle market sectors.
With strong teams and offers in place we see ample opportunity to deepen relationships with existing customers even as we add more great new names to the CEB client roster.
The clear exception to this story of broad-based growth was our PDRI business.
As outlined in the release we are writing down PDRI carrying value in the face of persistent U.S.
government market headwinds.
As we said for several quarters now the federal contracting market continues to be a difficult one.
Increasingly we've seen more and more opportunities become low-margin arm's length contracts.
This affects both our near-term margin in the business and our interest in pursuing some of these opportunities.
Obviously this is a smaller overall part of the business and our performance in the rest of the business puts us in a position to remain strong overall.
Elsewhere in the world we saw effectively all of our markets grow at a robust organic pace.
It appears that our EMEA operations are catching up with our North America and APAC growth rates after lagging for several years.
This is a continuation of performance trends we've observed for several quarters now reflecting the recovery in the broader European economy.
We also saw growth in the Asia-Pacific region reaccelerate after a slow start to the year.
Our SHL Talent Measurement segment also delivered solid growth as we continued to see early returns from last year's investment cycle.
We saw all regions contributing to growth and are pleased with our progress in putting last year's investments to work.
You are already seeing the first step toward normalization of margin in that segment a process which will continue into and through 2015 with the usual seasonal patterns.
We're working hard to tap our significant market opportunity and generate strong returns in the business.
More broadly sustained growth in revenue and bookings puts us on track to achieve our overall margin and profit goals for the year along with seasonal progression outlined at our annual Investor Day.
In turn the strong financial performance enabled us to continue executing on our capital management priorities.
First and foremost we continue to pay a healthy dividend which reinforces the strong consistent cash flows in the business in the recurring revenue model we operate.
Second we also remain committed to a constant share count across time.
In the quarter we initiated a programmatic approach to consistently buying back stock that enable us to repurchase $5.2 million worth in Q2 and puts us on track to repurchase about $15 million in 2014.
Our current intent is to continue this programmatic approach in the coming years consistent with our goal of keeping share count flat across time.
Of course we can and will revisit consistently as market conditions and liquidity dictate.
We think this approach underscores both the predictability of our business and our capital management priorities.
Our progress on our 2014 plan was matched by substantial headway on our multiyear strategic objectives.
Please turn to Slide 10 for a refresher on our priorities for 2014.
We have 4 key areas of focus: First continuing to reinvent the development and delivery of management insight; second leading the analytic transformation of talent management; third expanding the frontier of our brand and impact; and forth laying the foundation for future growth.
If you turn to Slide 11.
I'll share an update on our first priority continuing to reinvent the development and delivery of management insight.
Sharp insights into the drivers of corporate and functional performance are the foundation of our business.
By tapping the collected experience and workflows of thousands of companies we isolate what matters and document what works to help our members create business value and drive performance.
These insights ultimately power the advice assessments tools and technology that help our members and clients transform their operations.
We're off to another great year in each of our primary content areas and we've shared our newest work with members.
One highlight in the quarter was the release of the latest edition in our Executive Guidance series.
You've heard us talk about this publication series on several calls.
As a reminder we use this quarterly series to broadly share cross functional perspectives on core topic areas such as management of talent and risk as well as organizational transformation and corporate performance.
Our latest edition comes from our strong technology practice.
As a reminder we serve thousands of technology leaders and have worked with them for several years on the changing landscape for the corporate technology function to our future of corporate IT series.
This edition of Executive Guidance focuses on the component of that changing landscape.
Entitled Harnessing Business-Led IT the research focuses on the reality that the division of technology responsibilities within the corporation is blurring.
Business leaders are taking a greater role in managing and leveraging information and CIOs are seeking to expand IT's contribution and impact.
As you can see on the chart on the right-hand side of the slide 75% of spending on technology innovation is actually controlled by business functions not IT.
As you can imagine with our extensive network of CIOs and deep relationships with their CXO peers CEB is uniquely positioned to help both technology and business line leaders make sense of this transition.
The conventional approach we have observed is for CIOs and frankly other corporate leaders such as the Chief Procurement Officer and the Chief Financial Officer to use processes and policies to reign into this business-led IT spending.
But this has little effect as in the era of the cloud business leaders can and will and now go ahead and procure solutions regardless.
But they'll do this without the skills and support they need to get real value from their IT spending.
Our research prescribes a variety of practices aimed at embracing business-led IT to create value.
In one specific example leading companies are creating business-facing IT roles within IT to educate business leaders and get closer to frontline employees in order to influence business-led technology spending.
By embracing this and other approaches organizations can avoid wasting technology spend leverage more opportunities to use technology and importantly data to build competitive advantage and ultimately reduce overall risk exposure in their technology portfolio.
As you might imagine our teams are discussing these insights with members and prospective members.
And we're pleased with the immediate impact on member outcomes and performance that this work is already creating.
Great [ph] insights aren't our only focus however.
We're also continuing our work on personalizing the member experience and developing upgrade paths for members and clients to have more support in a wider range of our solutions.
As an example we've invested in some exciting new functionality that helps our account managers better map key issues and owners within member accounts and through this better link our content to key workflows and decisions.
Please turn to Slide 12 for an update in our second priority leading the analytic transformation of talent management.
As we shared at our Annual Investor Day our research shows that talent is the direct cause or key explanatory variable in the majority of corporate growth stalls.
You see that data illustrated in the right hand side of the slide.
Simply put talent matters.
Yet companies often manage this vital resource through at best intuition and local manager preference and habit.
This is why we see such opportunity to apply intelligence to the key talent management workflows by adding tools and solutions that make it easier and more cost effective to bring rigor and analytic depth to this essential aspect of business.
We continue to be working hard to build a suite of offerings to support this opportunity both by growing our existing lines of business and by developing new tools to improve the most important activities and decisions across the talent management life cycle.
Let me share a few highlights from the quarter.
As noted earlier our SHL Talent Measurement business continues to deliver solid growth as we attack significant market opportunity.
We also continue to innovate in this business area bringing together complete resources of the company to create powerful new solutions such as our functional talent audits or our hypo management tools.
This year we're also bringing online our new TalentCentral platform to increase the ease and effectiveness of using our assessment offerings.
We're also up to a fast start with the newest parts of our business.
CEB Talent Neuron remains an early stage of business but is already adding huge value with powerful insights in the key workforce planning decisions members make everyday.
For example we recently sized and diagnosed the supply demand GAAP in hiring IT talent.
Our findings revealed that the speed of change and hyper specialization of technology skills is creating competitive disruption in the IT workforce.
The winners in this environment will be the companies who use location as a source of unique comparative talent advantage.
We're getting great traction with the findings and our data was recently featured in the analysis underlying [ph] the White House's new ready to work initiative launch.
KnowledgeAdvisors also performed well in the quarter after we acquired the business in late Q1.
The majority of our back office integration work is now complete and we're fully focused on building this great business.
We're also finding new ways to embed the vast KnowledgeAdvisors measurement and metrics inventory into different parts of the CEB business.
Together with our existing set of resources and solutions these acquisitions are further distinguishing CEB as a source of must-have insights and data on key talent management decisions.
Please turn to Slide 13 for an update on our third priority expanding the frontier of our brand and impact.
We continue to focus our efforts here on closing 2 gaps as we mature.
First raising the global visibility and awareness of the CEB brand.
Second penetrating and growing key global markets.
We had a particularly busy quarter on the first front let me share a few highlights of how we raised CEB brand visibility.
First we continue to extend our thought leadership to the public domain to highlight contributions to Tier 1 media publications.
These efforts enhanced the CEB brand and exposed more new buyers to our offerings.
In the quarter CEB insights were featured in more than 400 articles in publications such as Forbes the Harvard Business Review CFO Magazine Huffington Post and the Asia Business Report.
Second we also provide thought leadership within the technical communities that support our key offering areas.
Visibility and recognition from professional peers advances the business in important ways most notably by assuring buyers and users that our analytics are grounded in the most rigorous and authoritative science.
As an example CEB had a strong showing at the Society of Industrial Organization Psychologist Annual Meeting with CEB staff speaking at more than 50 podiums during the 3-day event.
Our staff have also maintained leadership positions within SOIP and 2 of our staff were honored with this year's event for contributions to the industry.
We're also pleased to be recognized for our overall corporate performance.
Recently we were honored as 1 of Forbes' 100 most innovative growth companies.
Please turn to Slide 14 for an update in our fourth priority laying the foundation for future growth.
One of our perennial goals is to continue building a world-class CEB team.
We remain very pleased with our performance on this front so far this year.
To date we've seen vacancy rates for key roles at the low-end of historical ranges and retention of our highest performers at the high-end of historical ranges.
Key to our success has been our sustained focused on ensuring that CEB is a great place to work.
We leverage a healthy dose of our tools and solutions to not only build great compensation and incentive structures but to provide the work development and career opportunities that we know drive strong engagement alignment and retention.
A strengthening global economy only sharpens our focus on building great homes for top decile talent.
As we build a great team we also build an office footprint to give teams the workspace and technology needed to be highly productive.
The most recent news on this front is our announcement of a lease for new space for our Virginia offices.
As Rich mentioned we will be the marquee tenant in a new building to be named CEB Tower.
Construction hasn't begun on the building so it will be a few years before we move.
We're targeting a 2018 transition from our current space in Rosslyn.
The agreement is a result of our continuous multiyear talent business and real estate planning.
The CEB Tower opportunity allows us to achieve several objectives simultaneously.
You can see them summarized on the right hand side of the slide.
First and foremost it's going to be a great place for current and future employees to work.
Second it keeps us rooted in Rosslyn in the national capital region which is an ideal place for us to continue to recruit and develop a lot of the right talent for our business.
Third it showcases our brand with a level of promise that is not previously available to us.
And lastly and most importantly through good market timing and the partnership and support of Commonwealth of Virginia in Arlington County CEB Tower offers us compelling economic leverage.
It allows us to create an outstanding environment for our teams while advancing our strategy for continued growth and margin expansion.
We expect this to bring a variety of long-term benefits to the CEB business.
Let me stop there and summarize my remarks on Slide 15.
Our first-half performance sets us up well to hit our financial goals for 2014.
We have much work ahead but we have the momentum opportunity and skilled team to capitalize on the huge opportunities we have across the second half of the year.
We'll now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Gary Bisbee from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess the first question.
The deferred revenue for the core CEB businesses slowed a little bit sequentially.
Should we read much into that? And any real explanation as to why that happened? No.
Gary this is Rich.
I wouldn't read too much into that.
I mean I think we had solid high single-digit bookings in the quarter.
You're going to see deferred revenue kind of move around the booking number generally speaking.
You also saw the Contract Value growth was very solid as well.
So on a go-forward basis we feel good about our trends in the business and the amount of revenue we're going to recognize through the rest of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I wonder was that slight deceleration there -- should we look at that and look at the Contract Value for large member that you gave us growth being a little slower than the last couple of quarters as sort of one and the same? Or again is it more just timing of how things are move around? I think there's a fair bit of timing in there Gary and there's a little noise around the edges.
Yes I think Contract Value per large customer is a key focus in the business.
You've seen that number grow at a very healthy rate.
We're feeling good about renewal rates and -- of our existing customer base and cross sells are in a real good place.
We do have some work to do in terms of refining the upgrade paths into broader portions of the cut as people take on larger and larger contracts as part of their relationship.
We have some work to do in terms of refining those upgrade paths.
So I think you'll see as we continue to refine that the number is staying in a very healthy zone.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know you no longer give the standalone revenue for the PDRI segment but if I back out over the last couple of quarters the acquired revenue or benefit to revenue growth from acquisitions in CEB it looks like despite the weakness of PDRI you actually had the fastest revenue growth in the CEB segment in several quarters like I think a year more than a year.
Is -- what exactly is driving that continued strong growth? I guess you said Europe's getting a little better.
Asia-Pacific accelerated but anything you'd point out or is it really just broad momentum? Yes.
If anything the story is one of breadth across the business right now.
We have obviously challenged other parts of the business to step up a little more.
Knowing that the PDRI team was going to still be facing some headwinds other parts of the business have stepped up and leaned in and made sure that we're still on track.
But I think that's a very broadly based phenomenon.
And we'll go next to Tobey Sommer with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Frank in for Tobey.
Wanted to ask a little bit more about international demand in EMEA and Asia-Pacific.
Can you give us a little bit more color in terms of growth rates or sizes of businesses there and just what you're seeing from those international customers? Yes.
At a micro level international across the business is about 35% give or take in big broad brush strokes.
The SHL business overweights international a little bit but the CEB is obviously very global as well.
The news is no news actually in many respects EMEA appears to have caught up in terms of overall growth with APAC and North America and the entire global business is growing at a very consistent rate now.
So there isn't much news regionally which I guess is the news.
We feel very good about the international market opportunity.
I think all our markets globally checked in with a good solid organic growth.
And obviously we -- our business doesn't yet reflect the full opportunity available in the global economy so we're excited to see the growth in the years ahead in those non-U.S.
markets.
We're also delighted that the North America market which is our oldest and largest is still putting up great growth number.
So we're happy that the share stays the same because all the businesses are growing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Great that's helpful.
And then looking at Contract Value per member institution that was up a little bit.
I wanted to ask what you see going forward with that metric and kind of trends as you look in the back half of the year.
I think what we've said is it to be about our 8% to 13% annual organic growth target breaks into 3 buckets: Growing our existing customer footprint making sure our existing customers grow Contract Value adding great new customers to the CEB roster and adding great new products.
Across that 8% to 13% great new products while hugely important contribute in any are about 1% of revenue growth in that year.
So the bulk of that 8% to 13% comes from the 2 categories of adding new customers and growing the existing customer base.
And historically what we've seen is they tend to break out pretty evenly in the year.
They tend to contribute equally to growth.
So in a 8% to 13% year you'd see those be in the sort of 3.5% to 6% range annually.
That's kind of where they been they've been at the higher end of that range.
Each of those metrics with Contract Value per customer consistently in the 5% to 6% range over the past several years and new customer adds consistently in that.
Any given quarter they'll swing around a little bit but we expect them to be the big drivers in that 8% to 13% annual revenue growth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one quick numbers question.
Do have an assumption for stock-based comp for the year? Yes that's about $17 million for the year.
And we'll go next with Tim McHugh with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a sense for the customer growth in the large market? I guess just to what extent is the slower I guess CV per large member any reflection of the customer growth? I'm just trying to get a sense of I guess exactly how much of the growth in the legacy business is really being driven by middle market if that's the CV per member growth rate you saw.
Yes.
In terms of if you think of customer growth break in 2 things.
New logos obviously middle market creates the bulk of the new logos.
But in terms of dollars from new customers we still get good contribution from large enterprise new members coming on board and obviously in a quarter we're happier where international's performing.
Net-net those businesses contribute a little bit more in terms of net large new customers coming into the business.
You're not wrong that obviously that produced a little bit dampening effect on average CV per large customer because we -- one problem we had not figured out a way to solve in the business is customers still tend to buy one thing when they come on board.
So the average size of the customer relationship in its first year is lower.
But I think in terms of logos absolutely.
In terms of dollars large enterprise still contributes real dollars to new customers.
Yes.
And then in terms of just the institution's accounts themselves I mean you're seeing a little faster growth in middle market institutions but still very solid growth in the large corporate institutions as well.
So a few hundred basis points on either end of that overall average in those 2 areas.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I guess SHL.
Can you -- you talked about seeing I guess leverage.
You hope you're on this path towards seeing better leverage of the margin structure there and the sales force investments you've made.
I guess without giving -- I guess asking you for guidance for next year but what pace of growth do you need to really start to get more meaningful leverage out of those investments as we go forward the next 12 to 24 months? I guess are you seeing enough growth out of SHL right now that we can really start to see leverage of that? Or do you need to see a more material I guess pick up in the top line to get that leverage back? Our goal for the SHL business is for it to consistently and comfortably be in that 8% to 13% organic growth range.
And obviously as with any of our businesses the higher in that range the better.
And we're seeing already returns from the investments we're starting to make so we expect as that business gets -- is in that range and stays in that range and pushes toward the higher end we'll be in a position where we really do get toward our original margin structure for the business.
It won't be sudden but we've said -- and you expect to see progress this year expect to see progress in 2015 and returning to our historical patterns beyond that.
Getting into the low 20s by 2016.
Yes.
And we'll go next to Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Just comparing the SHL unit's organic growth with the CEB unit were you guys surprised that the CEB unit outperformed on an organic basis just given the what I think is just a better cross sell opportunity in terms of underpenetration from taking SHL to the existing base? And how should we think about that? I think both businesses are on track for the goals we set this year.
And I think any individual quarter there'll be some noise as our customers start something sooner or starts it later et cetera.
But I think we're feeling very good about both businesses being on track for the year.
I would say I think we talked about this at Investor Day we've had early success at cross-selling the SHL products set into the CEB customer base and vice versa but we have a lot of work to do in terms of realizing the full potential of that opportunity.
I think we're seeing progress every quarter.
The challenge is of course both businesses are good businesses and we don't want to completely distract either team with cross-selling and new things.
They've got a great opportunity ahead of them but we're trying to balance that and get after it.
But we've got of opportunity a lot of work to do.
We're seeing progress but I don't think we've nearly fully tapped that opportunity.
But we're very pleased with where both businesses are.
You see strong organic growth good deferred revenue growth in the businesses and we're setting up near where we expect to.
I would just add Shlomo that the outcomes that we saw in the second quarter were what we have planned for what we have anticipated and very much keeping us on track for what we expect the full year outcomes to be.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So if I think about how the growth should be from both segments of the business on organic basis where -- would you think that they're going to be comparable? Or you'd think that SHL coming ahead? Just -- I mean how are you guys thinking about it? We'd expect both businesses to be in that 8% to 13% organic growth range.
This year we've set it [ph] on a full year basis we'd expect the SHL business to improve over last year which in the CEB business obviously pushes within that 8% to 13% organic growth range across time.
Combination of both of those and expanding margins in both businesses we think creates a set of really good financial outcomes.
So we're -- obviously there's no -- every unit every person in the company tries to stretch the higher end of that range but we build the business to deliver organic growth in that range along with margin expansion.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I understand there's a lumpiness to the business and I think there's -- some of the questions have been asked beforehand and what I'm asking probably just the fact of instead of being an analyst if you're managing a business you see on the ground a business is not -- is a lumpy thing when you're trying to close deals.
To that -- in that vein can you talk a little bit about the services component of SHL? What percentage of that unit right now is services revenue? And how that kind of changes some of the -- what might be bookings or revenue in the volatility of that around SHL? Sure.
Shlomo this is Rich.
The -- what you would see is somewhere in that order of about 30% of the business is more services oriented.
Now those services tend to be repeatable over time and definitely linked to usage of the online and product platforms.
And so -- but you're right.
There is some lumpiness both in terms of how those get booked and then how the revenue gets recognized because they tend to be tied to delivery milestones and project plans as opposed to being recognized in a straight-line basis like a subscription would.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So how would you say that impacted this quarter? Where -- do you have deliverables that you think -- you're going to see more things being pulled into next quarter? Is there any way to parse that? Or just trying to isolate the business model difference here from -- as SHL become a bigger part of your business.
Yes.
I mean I think you're definitely seeing -- you definitely have seasonality from quarter-to-quarter in that business which we've talked about as first and third quarters being lower revenues second and fourth quarters as being higher revenue with the biggest component of those differences being the amount of services that are recognized in those periods.
I guess the one thing I'd point out you did see a pretty significant growth relative to where the first quarter had been in 2013 and second quarter of 2013.
So we probably had a little bit more pulled into the second quarter on a relative basis last year than we did this year.
But this is all within a normal range of expectations.
I wouldn't read too much into some of this variation.
And while we manage the business aggressively we do also manage it to an annual plan because there are -- as much as we want to pull all customer activity forward as far as we can we also have to be careful and be responsive to what they want to do.
If they want to start something on July 3 versus June 22 it's our need to be responsive to that.
And we'll go next to David Ridley-Lane from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
I wanted to ask a little bit about the sales force productivity that you're getting from the new additions in the SHL sales force.
Can you remind me about the timing of when those new sales were added? And then maybe some color on sort of [ph] march up the productivity curve that you're seeing on those newer sales additions? Sure.
David this is Rich.
We're basically at the anniversary now of when the bulk of resources were added.
So it was a large portion in the second quarter of 2013 and then some more in the third quarter of 2013.
But think of us at second quarter this year as essentially lapping the majority of those costs -- those cost increases.
And as far as productivity I mean what we've said is that it takes kind of 2 years to get -- for a new sales person to get average productivity across the sales force so we're about halfway along that curve right now with those new folks.
And we're tracking according to that trend.
And obviously it was a large addition of incremental resources all at one time.
You're going to have someone washouts you're going to have some stars.
And we're seeing the normal mix of what we would have seen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you talk about the timing of the margin improvements that you expect from the newly acquired KnowledgeAdvisors and Talent Neuron acquisitions? The margin impact in the second quarter that's what you're asking? Research Division</strong> We're thinking about -- I know you expect KnowledgeAdvisors to reach sort of a single-digit adjusted EBITDA margin in 2015.
But I was wondering is it building up? Do you expect it to be a positive contributor to the fourth quarter? We might some contribution.
I think for the full year it's -- we're expecting it to be relatively breakeven.
It was essentially breakeven in the second quarter.
And so that was a bit of a drag on margins.
But we're not expecting a lot of contribution to EBITDA from that unit this year.
Research Division</strong> And then in 2015 year [ph] that's correct to your expectations through the single-digit? Yes.
I think at this stage that's reasonable.
Obviously we're not providing guidance for next year at this stage.
But that's a reasonable expectation as we sit here today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one more for me.
I'm a little bit curious here.
You're kind of 7 months into the year.
You have strong visibility on the contract value.
Was there anything that -- potential swing factor that caused you not to tighten up the revenue guidance range a little bit? Just kind of curious on your thinking around that.
I think the biggest thing is just obviously FX can swing things one way or the other.
And so we felt that this stage it made sense that we -- the wider range is in place.
Although we do -- based on where we sit today we expect the midpoints are the most likely outcomes.
Research Division</strong> The midpoints of both revenue and EPS? Yes.
And we'll go next to Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I missed some of beginning did you specifically break out the impact on PRDI on the growth? The -- again we're not breaking out PDRI separately.
The quarterly revenue has been relatively flat for several quarters now.
And so that's -- if that's helpful to you.
Research Division</strong> Was it down year-on-year in the second quarter? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- typically in the fourth quarter there's a pretty significant Q-on-Q ramp in costs somewhere of the order of magnitude over the last couple of years of 2% to 10%.
I'm just wondering if you're -- based on what seems to be a little more front end loading of cost this year and the acquisitions which should be a little bit more accretive to margins or a bit less of a drag on margins if you're still expecting that kind of level of cost growth in the fourth quarter.
We'll -- at this stage we're probably expecting a smaller increase in cost in the fourth quarter than we've typically seen.
Part of that is the fact that we did front load a number of expenses as you observed.
And -- but at this stage overall we're looking for relatively flat operating expenses from here maybe a little bit down in the third quarter and then a little bit up in the fourth quarter.
And we'll go next to Joe Foresi with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> Can you remind us why the seasonality impacts SHL in 3Q? And maybe give us some color on the order of magnitude there? Sure.
The simple answer is just given the summer months there is just generally less business activity particularly in some of the international markets where you have extended vacations and such.
And so that impacts the services piece.
It also frankly it impacts the usage piece as well.
And since a portion of it is not on subscriptions but rather recognized as usages is incurred that has an impact.
So overall I think if you look at the pattern from last year it's a reasonable kind of proxy for this year in terms of the shape of what that would look like.
But beyond that we wouldn't guide specifically what the magnitude would be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then sticking with SHL in North America you've done the sales force ramp.
Are there any statistics or numbers or even quality of commentary that you could give us regarding your ability to penetrate that market from a new logo perspective or even the productivity of that sales force? I mean I think the -- we're making good progress.
The sales force is ramping.
We think the opportunity is -- the SHL business right now is give or take in big brushstrokes about 1/4 North American.
And obviously relative to the penetration in other markets that's quite small.
The U.S.
is the biggest and richest and deepest business services market.
It's one of the most dynamic labor markets.
So we'd expect even as the business grows to a healthy rate that still signals there's a vast opportunity in front of us here.
And if you look at the CEB business the overwhelming majority of our businesses is in North America.
So when I talk about connecting those 2 things that's our goal is to get the SHL products more broadly introduced into the CEB customer base.
And as I've said we have made some good progress.
We have a lot of work to do still.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally for me on the margin profile.
Guidance seems to call for a pretty reasonable ramp on margins in both SHL and CEB particularly in the fourth quarter.
How should we think about that? I know you commented a little bit about what the costs were as opposed to other years in 4Q.
But is this revenue driven? Is this productivity driven? Is this acquisition related because the margin profile would be -- of those 2 businesses would be pretty good exiting this year given the present guidance.
Yes I think there's a few factors Joe.
I mean one is certainly normal seasonality which we would expect to see ramping revenues in the fourth quarter in both segments.
Second is some additional contribution from some of the acquisitions.
And a third is assuming that FX stays relatively stable with where it is right now you should see some normalization on margins in terms of the impact that FX has had.
And so you should hopefully have -- again assuming rates stay where they are right now you'd actually have some help from FX in the fourth quarter versus the headwind we've had so far this year.
And we'll take our final question from Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Ryan filling in for Manav.
Just had a question on M&amp;A strategy post the 2 deals this year.
We're obviously moving to the TalentCentral platform.
Just want to know in terms of the offering itself are there any gaps that you see today that may be needed to be filled through M&amp;A or internal development? We look at the entire talent management life cycle and see many many places where you can add additional intelligence or insight to help people make better decisions.
In most cases we think we've got the premier asset.
We see opportunities on a couple of fronts.
There's definitely an opportunity to better link our resources across the continuum.
You've heard us talk about the high potential management tools that we're building using the SHL assessment technology and some of CEB's economic models and some of our development resources.
So there's some great opportunities just even better link and package products we already have.
There's new product development we've got to keep doing.
And -- those will always be our first 2 tools in the toolkit but if there's a talent management workflow that someone's made great progress in instrumenting and putting great resources around and it would take us years to catch up we're not against doing additional small acquisitions to fill in our portfolio.
We think right now the suite of tools we've got is about as powerful as you could find in the marketplace but there are definite ways for us to continue to develop new linkages continue to develop new products and continue to add some new capabilities across time.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one more if I could probe on the share repurchase program.
I'm just trying to get a sense of strategy.
We saw some weakness in the share price during the quarter.
So I was curious with opportunistic buying versus kind of a slow and steady just to maintain share count flat going forward.
I think our philosophy hasn't changed at all that our expectations we want to keep share count flat across time.
That's one of our major capital management priorities along with paying a healthy dividend and maintaining a strong financial position so we can take action if we need to.
The -- over time what we've -- you've seen us be opportunistic but we wanted to put in place something programmatic that insured we could act when the market was open we could take advantage of close market windows and be consistent.
Because we think consistency really underscores our -- the nature of our business model high recurring revenue high visibility et cetera.
Our expectation is we'd continue that programmatic approach certainly through 2014.
And we expect that all else being equal that's how we'll approach the market in '15 and beyond.
We will of course revisit based on liquidity needs market conditions et cetera.
If that's not the right strategy based on market conditions we'll come back and raise that.
But right now we think that's a -- our approach very much underscores some great aspects of our business model.
And this concludes our question-and-answer session.
And I would now like to turn the conference back over to Tom Monahan for any additional or closing remarks.
All right.
Thanks everyone for calling in or logging in to today's event.
Let me just close the call by summarizing our remarks and conversation.
Our performance keeps us on track to achieve some important strategic and financial objectives in the year.
We're pleased with the healthy broad-based organic growth that we're seeing from nearly all of our end markets and we're grateful to the work of our teams for putting us there.
Rich and I look forward to seeing many of you on our travels over the next few months.
Thanks for calling in.
We look forward to keeping you up to date in the CEB story.
And this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to CEB's Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through November 7 by dialing (719) 457-0820.
The replay passcode is 8672901.
The replay will also be available beginning later today and through November 7 at the company's website.
To the extent any non-GAAP financial measures discussed in today's call you will also find a reconciliation of that measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated according to GAAP by going to the company's website and reviewing yesterday's news release.
You will also find a PDF of the supporting materials that the company will use in its prepared remarks this morning by going to the company's website and following the link to the third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Please review the second page of these materials which includes important information about any forward-looking information included in the presentation.
This conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements among others regarding CEB's expected quarterly and annual financial performance for fiscal 2014 or beyond.
For this purpose any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing discussions of forecast estimates targets plans beliefs expectations and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
You're hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by important factors among others set forth in CEB's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its third quarter news release.
Consequently actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the conference over to the company's Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Richard Lindahl.
Please go ahead sir.
Okay.
Thanks Scott and good morning everyone.
This is Rich Lindahl.
I'm the Chief Financial Officer of CEB.
Thank you for calling or logging in to our third quarter 2014 earnings report.
On today's call I'll review our third quarter financial results and discuss our updated 2014 guidance.
Tom Monahan our CEO will then take over to share additional insight on our operations in the quarter provide an update on our 2014 priorities share preliminary thoughts on 2015 and discuss our approach to capital allocation then we will take your questions.
Please turn to Slide 3 of our presentation where we lay out the key takeaways from today's call.
We're pleased to report that our operating results in 2014 continue to unfold along the contours we have previously discussed.
In the quarter we saw solid year-over-year double-digit revenue growth and adjusted EBITDA margin improvement in both of our operating segments.
Earnings were also helped in the quarter by nonoperating FX gains related to a stronger U.S.
dollar.
On the back of this momentum we are sustaining our revenue outlook and raising our profit guidance for the full year and we have raised our expected buyback for the year to approximately $30 million as we continue to ramp into our programmatic approach.
Let's turn to Slide 4 for a summary recap of our results.
Revenue was $229 million in the third quarter of 2014 an increase of 13.5% on a year-over-year basis.
Adjusted EBITDA margin was 28.8% in the third quarter compared to 24.7% in the third quarter of 2013.
Third quarter 2014 diluted earnings per share was $0.63 compared to a diluted loss per share of $0.16 in the third quarter of 2013.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $1.05 versus $0.86 in the comparable prior year quarter.
Before we go on I'll comment briefly on foreign currencies.
You will recall that our results were affected by both nonoperating FX impacts on our balance sheet accounts and operating FX impacts to revenue and operating expenses.
Of note CEB's net income for the 3 months ended September 30 includes a pretax $6 million nonoperating net foreign currency gain in other income.
This gain benefited adjusted EBITDA margin by about 260 basis points.
By contrast on a constant-currency basis the net impact of foreign currency movement reduced consolidated operating profit by approximately $1 million in the quarter as compared to last year.
Please refer to Page 8 of our earnings press release for more information.
Now let's turn to Slide 5 and I'll review our key operating metrics for the quarter.
CEB segment Contract Value at September 30 2014 was $646.7 million which is up 12.3% year-over-year.
For the SHL Talent Measurement segment adjusted revenue was $50.6 million in the third quarter an increase of 13.9% compared to the prior year.
On a constant-currency basis SHL Talent Measurement adjusted revenue growth was 12.9%.
CEB segment Wallet retention rate was 99% at September 30 2014 versus 98% a year ago.
SHL Talent Measurement segment Wallet retention rate was 106% at September 30 2014 versus 97% last year.
Wallet retention in both segments remains in the normal range and continues to provide a solid platform for overall growth in revenue.
Note also that Wallet retention in the SHL Talent Measurement segment has benefited from easier year-over-year growth comparisons over the past several quarters.
While we remain confident in the future growth prospects of SHL Talent Measurement you will likely see this metric begin to moderate as the comparisons get harder going forward.
Total CEB segment member institutions grew 10.5% to 6 847 in the third quarter reflecting the addition of KnowledgeAdvisors as well as continued growth in the CEB segment middle market and large corporate memberships.
CEB segment Contract Value per member institution was $94 300 at September 30 which is a 1.6% year-over-year increase reflecting the mix impact from both middle market members and strength in large corporate new logo acquisition.
To illustrate this effect CEB segment Contract Value per institution at September 30 2014 was $143 400 for large corporate members and $29 600 in middle market representing annual increases of 0.3% and 7.7% respectively.
Please turn to Slide 6 and I'll review key segment highlights for the quarter.
CEB segment revenue was $179.1 million in the third quarter an increase of 12.8% versus the third quarter of 2013.
CEB segment revenue is net of a $1 million deferred revenue fair value adjustment.
As compared to the prior year SHL Talent Measurement segment revenue increased 16% to $49.9 million in the third quarter of 2014 and SHL Talent Measurement segment revenue includes a $700 000 reduction to reflect the deferred revenue fair value adjustment.
Consolidated operating expenses were in line with our expectations.
Cost of services increased $7.6 million versus the third quarter of 2013.
This increase reflects greater headcount delivery resources and other variable costs associated with a large customer base as well as product staff that joined us from KnowledgeAdvisors and Talent Neuron.
Member relations and marketing expense increased $7.7 million in the third quarter versus the prior year.
This growth reflects additional sales headcount and variable compensation expense across both the CEB and SHL Talent Measurement segments and also includes teams from companies acquired earlier this year.
General and administrative costs in the third quarter were up $4.5 million compared to the prior year.
This increase reflects certain costs from the acquired companies as well as some increased headcount and the comparative impact of last year's reclassification of incentive expense to cost of services and member relations and marketing.
Acquisition-related costs of $400 000 in the third quarter were driven primarily by integration costs related to KnowledgeAdvisors and Talent Neuron.
Interest income and other was $5.9 million in the third quarter of 2014 as compared to net expense of $2.1 million in the third quarter of 2013.
This year-over-year change was primarily due to the impact of foreign currency.
The significant strengthening by September 30 of the U.S.
dollar versus the British pound was the main driver of these nonoperating net FX gains that were mostly related to the balance sheets of our foreign subsidiaries.
Interest expense in the third quarter of 2014 was $4.6 million compared to $5 million in the third quarter of 2013.
Consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin in the third quarter was 28.8% versus 24.7% in the third quarter of 2013 reflecting the benefit of net nonoperating foreign currency gains as well as the year-over-year progression in both the CEB and SHL Talent Measurement segments that we discussed on our last earnings call.
In the CEB segment adjusted EBITDA margin in the quarter was 31.3% reflecting the impact of foreign exchange rate differences including a $3.8 million net nonoperating FX gain as well as recent acquisitions.
Adjusted EBITDA margin also benefited from strong revenue growth and expense scaling and was offset by about 40 basis points of operating currency headwind.
Accordingly on a constant-currency basis that normalizes both periods for these factors CEB segment adjusted EBITDA margin would have been 29.6% in the third quarter of 2014 versus 29% in the third quarter of 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA margin for the SHL Talent Measurement segment was 20.1% which included a net nonoperating foreign currency gain in the quarter of $2.2 million or approximately 430 basis points.
Margins in this segment have begun to normalize as revenue growth stays in the target range and operating expense grows -- growth slows.
The impact of FX rates on operating profit also reduced adjusted EBITDA margin by approximately 45 basis points in this segment.
And so on a constant-currency basis that normalizes both periods for these factors SHL Talent Measurement segment adjusted EBITDA margin would have been approximately 16.2% in the third quarter of 2014 versus 15.3% in the third quarter of 2013.
Depreciation and amortization in the third quarter was $16.7 million an increase of $1.4 million compared to the third quarter of 2013.
This year-over-year change is largely due to increased amortization from KnowledgeAdvisors offset by reduced amortization of PDRI intangible assets.
The provision for income taxes was $18 million in the third quarter.
As previously discussed the book versus tax treatment of last quarter's impairment loss is driving a higher effective tax rate for the full year.
We are normalizing out this impact on adjusted net income through each of the second third and fourth quarters of this year.
Please refer to Footnote 2 on Page 13 of our earnings press release for more information.
Please turn to Slide 7 for balance sheet and cash flow highlights.
We remain in a healthy financial position with $87 million of cash at September 30 and the current portion of deferred revenue was $384.5 million at September 30.
As compared to the prior year CEB segment deferred revenue increased 8.7% to $319.2 million a positive leading indicator for CEB segment revenue.
We ended the quarter with $508.1 million of total debt in the balance sheet and our ratio of net debt to trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA was approximately 1.9x.
We also maintain access to additional liquidity via the $192 million of undrawn availability under our revolver.
For the first 9 months of 2014 cash flows from operations were $117.9 million consistent with typical seasonal patterns and an increase of 24.1% compared to the first 9 months of 2013 driven by cash tax timing favorability growth in adjusted EBITDA and continued strong collections.
During the third quarter we spent $7.5 million on capital expenditures as we neared completion of several 2014 technology initiatives including the new TalentCentral platform.
We continue to focus on cash distribution given the attractive margin and cash flow characteristics of our business and we paid $8.8 million in dividends in the third quarter.
We also repurchased $11.5 million of stock during the third quarter and now have approximately $31 million of authorization remaining under the stock repurchase plan that expires on December 31 2014.
Based on our programmatic approach to purchases we now currently anticipate the full year 2014 buyback amount will be approximately $30 million.
Please turn to Slide 8 and we'll move on to our outlook.
The following comments are intended to fall under the safe harbor provisions outlined at the beginning of the call and are based on preliminary assumptions which are subject to change over time.
Based on current leading indicators and while contemplating various risks and opportunities we continue to track largely in line with our prior outlook ranges.
With the majority of the year behind us we have good visibility on full year performance and are updating our guidance accordingly.
We now expect CEB's full year 2014 adjusted revenue to be between $915 million and $925 million and that the reduction in revenue from the deferred revenue fair value adjustment will be approximately $6 million this year.
So the GAAP revenue outlook is now $909 million to $919 million.
Our current visibility leads us to expect CEB segment top line to grow in the low double digits for the year as healthy growth in the legacy CEB business is complemented by the addition of Talent Neuron and KnowledgeAdvisors while offset to some degree by continued headwinds in government markets.
We continue to expect that SHL Talent Measurement will deliver strong full year growth in 2014 on a constant-currency basis.
However it's also important to remember that the year-over-year growth comparison is tougher in the fourth quarter of the year.
Going one click further on revenue we expect typical seasonal trends and year-to-date bookings growth to produce sequential quarterly increases in both the CEB and SHL Talent Measurement segments.
While year-over-year growth is expected to be solid in both segments a tougher prior year comparison and a return to normal seasonality are likely to produce mid- to high single-digit growth at SHL Talent Measurement.
On the expense side we expect seasonality to drive modest sequential cost increases in both segments.
Accordingly after normalizing for the third quarter nonoperating FX gains we expect sequential improvements in both quarterly consolidated margins and earnings in the fourth quarter.
Assuming no further swings in FX we now expect full year adjusted EBITDA margin of between 24.75% and 25.25%.
This outlook reflects both the sequential ramp we articulated on our last earnings call and the year-to-date impact of nonoperating FX gains.
We thus expect the fourth quarter to continue the third quarter trend toward higher consolidated margins in the second half of 2014 driven by typical seasonal improvement in the CEB segment greater contribution from recent acquisitions and improved operating leverage in the SHL Talent Measurement segment.
Depreciation and amortization in 2014 is now expected to be between $69 million and $71 million.
This increase over 2013 is driven by amortization of newly acquired intangibles higher capital expenditures and the completion of several multiyear projects.
Capital expenditures in 2014 are anticipated to be approximately $35 million which is consistent with our target range of 3% to 4% of revenue.
For the full year we expect acquisition-related costs of approximately $3 million for transaction expenses and other integration costs.
As discussed last quarter for book purposes the tax treatment of the goodwill portion of the PDRI impairment loss will drive a higher effective tax rate on a fully reported GAAP basis than previously targeted for the year.
As a result the 2014 tax rate is currently estimated to be approximately 48% excluding additional discrete items such as foreign currency gains or losses that are recognized as incurred.
Incorporating all of these factors we are now raising our outlook for 2014 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share to a range of $3.25 to $3.45.
This guidance reflects solid revenue growth improving constant-currency adjusted EBITDA margin modest contribution from KnowledgeAdvisors and lower interest costs all somewhat offset by an increase in depreciation expense.
Importantly this earnings outlook assumes that currencies remain relatively stable through the end of 2014 As you've seen through the third quarter we are continuing to produce strong cash generation in 2014 and we expect that the ratio of cash flows from operations to adjusted net income will remain at a healthy multiple consistent with historical patterns.
Finally you will note that throughout my comments today I have highlighted the impact on our reported results of nonoperating net foreign currency gains and losses.
Given that these noncash gains and losses do not affect the ongoing operating profile of our business beginning in 2015 we are planning to change our non-GAAP metric definitions to exclude these items consistent with the approach we've seen at other companies.
We will provide additional detail on this definitional change when we share our 2015 outlook in February.
That concludes the financial summary.
Tom will provide some additional thoughts on our early views on 2015 and approach to capital allocation in a few minutes.
I'll now turn the call over to him to share more color on our operations and growth strategies.
Thanks Rich.
Let me add my welcome to everyone who's joined for today's call.
We appreciate the opportunity to keep you updated on the CEB story.
I'll use my remarks to provide additional perspective on our performance to date and to update you on our multi-year priorities for delivering growth and impact.
In summary we saw solid performance in all of our major markets in the third quarter.
Our momentum on both the revenue and profit lines allows us to raise our EPS projections for the year and gives us great confidence as we enter our vital Q4 selling season.
We also continue to make steady progress on the longer-term strategic priorities that support continued growth in the years ahead.
I'm pleased with our achievements to date and delighted with the engagement and alignment of our teams globally.
Let me start with an overview of our performance across markets.
Please turn to Slide 9.
Our third quarter results reflect healthy organic growth across all major areas of our business.
Obviously we're pleased to see growth and strong economics coming from so many different areas.
Let me provide some color on each market starting with the CEB segment.
In North America our largest and oldest market we saw continued strength in both our large enterprise and middle market sectors.
With strong teams and offerings in place we see ample opportunity to deepen our relationships with existing customers even as we continue to add great new names to the CEB client roster.
In particular you saw very strong growth in new member count in the quarter reflecting a successful focus on this in large enterprise and middle markets.
As many of you know these customers typically come in first with a single-membership subscription and add more memberships and premium services across time and thus our Contract Value growth is slightly heavier on memberships than on premium services which also have more variable delivery and revenue recognition patterns.
The strength in new members tends to damp down the average customer spend a bit and can create some noise in the deferred revenue implied bookings numbers but we're obviously very happy with this result.
With a strong subscription Contract Value and solid bookings growth we remain well set up to deliver on our near- and medium-term top line targets.
Elsewhere in the world we saw all of our markets grow at a robust organic pace.
This global performance is a continuation of trends we've observed for several quarters now where our international markets are now consistently growing at or near the corporate average.
We're obviously pleased that despite some macro noise in Europe we continue to perform very well.
This success reinforces the fact that even in very low growth environments executives need help in making decisions about people customers technology and risk and our resources and tools are cost-effective support for these decisions.
Our SHL Talent Measurement segment also continued to gather momentum.
We saw revenue accelerate and we're on track to achieve our goals of an adjusted EBITDA margin in the low 20s by 2016.
Our revenue growth in this segment represents good progress but it's obviously helped also by a weaker year ago comp.
As Rich said this trend will reverse a bit in Q4 given customer pull forwards during this period in 2013.
From our vantage point these minor quarter-to-quarter variations in growth rate are far less important than the overall momentum now visible in the business.
We look at a multi-quarter trajectory that smooths out small quarterly variations in service activity and here you can see we are now in a very healthy place.
Smoothing out quarter-to-quarter timing issues this business is now comfortably and consistently growing our target organic growth range.
Obviously currency and/or customer timing can move any individual quarter around but we are very comfortable with the overall performance picture and continued sales pipeline development.
More broadly I'm also pleased that our momentum in the top line is translating into a very healthy margin growth at the firm level.
While the reported margin is obviously exaggerated a bit by currency movements the underlying organic margin expansion is also a good news story.
As we have said from the beginning of the year we expected the quarterly progression on margins to be a little different than normal but we had high confidence in meeting our original targets and we're set up to sustain progress in 2015.
You can see from this quarter's results that the progression year-to-date has followed the seasonal patterns we outlined and we now have good visibility into continued margin expansion next year.
Finally let me spend a moment on capital allocation.
Our strong revenue and margin performance enabled us to accelerate execution on our capital management priorities.
As we said at the outset of the year our first priority is we're raising the dividend and arriving at our target leverage zone.
Due to strong performance we have now arrived comfortably within our target.
With cash flow remaining strong we've been able to focus on stock repurchase as an additional means of deploying capital.
As we discussed in the Q2 call as you can see in the Q3 result we are ramping into a healthy programmatic approach to buybacks.
As of September 30 we had approximately $30 million left on our current authorization which gives us enough room to continue executing our strategy through year-end.
We are committed to returning capital to our shareholders as part of our business planning for 2015 and beyond.
Given that we are now within our target leverage range our board will of course consider how best to deploy the cash flow that this business is on course to generate.
In view of the strength of our business and our solid financial foundation it's safe to say that we'll be in a position to increase the percentage of free cash flow that we'll pay out over the next year.
In summary our performance thus far in 2014 keeps us on track to achieve our financial objectives for the year.
We have much work ahead to capitalize on our market opportunity but our success to date gives us confidence that we will achieve our goals.
In addition to our in-year financial plan we've also made substantial headwind in key multi-year strategic objectives enabling us to sustain our track record of growth and profit.
As a reminder we have 4 key areas of focus: first continuing to reinvent the development and delivery of management insight; second leading the analytic transformation of talent management; third expanding the frontier of our brand and impact; and fourth laying the foundation for future growth.
If you turn to Slide 10 I'll share an update on our first priority management insight.
Our research follows a unique operating model by tapping the collective experience in workflows of the world's great companies.
We build data assets insights and resources that transform performance and we provide this superior support at a fraction of the cost of other sources of advice.
Our powerful insights into corporate performance are foundational to creating and delivering business value for our customers.
It's obviously a perennial area of focus for our teams and we've introduced great new work across 2014 in all of our practice areas.
One recent example comes from our legal risk and compliance practice.
As a reminder we serve thousands of legal audit risk management and compliance and ethics leaders equipping them to decrease risk drive team productivity and ultimately save time and money.
Our research notes that while increased investments in risk management help mitigate risks they can also create unintended drags on execution particularly since the various departments responsible for risk can often put competing and redundant processes in place in operating units.
The cost of this drag is real.
A majority of corporate strategist's sites slow decision-making is the primary impediment to growth not lack of capital or lack of growth opportunities.
In fact this inaction can cause companies almost half their potential growth rate as you can see from the right-hand side of this slide.
Our research pinpoints the sources of this organizational drag and equips risk leaders with strategies to streamline risk management avoid redundant activity and ultimately boost growth.
By embracing these and other approaches organizations can attain higher growth rates by appropriately managing risk and accelerating their decision-making.
As you might imagine our teams are discussing these insights with members and prospective members and we are pleased with the immediate impact of member outcomes and performance that this work is already creating.
We're also making good progress to further personalize the member experience.
We're currently working on migrating our member digital channels to better support more tailored delivery of our content better support of a variety of mobile devices and more direct links to critical workflows.
We know that usage drives impact which leads to renewal and cross-selling opportunities.
This platform will be a powerful resource for increasing member usage of our great resources.
Please turn to Slide 11 for an update on our second priority leading the analytic transformation of talent management.
Our insight into the drivers of corporate performance points to why talent management is such a rich market opportunity.
As we shared at our Investor Day talent is the direct cause for a key explanatory variable in the majority of corporate growth stalls and despite increasing focus of corporate boards and leadership teams on talent issues companies often manage this vital resource through intuition and habit.
That is why we see such opportunity to apply intelligence to talent management by providing easy-to-use cost-effective tools and solutions.
We've been building a suite of offerings to support the opportunity both by growing our existing lines of business and by developing new tools.
Let me share a few highlights from the quarter.
First as I discussed earlier the SHL Talent Measurement business continues to grow at a healthy rate.
During the quarter we also launched our new TalentCentral platform to customers.
This is the next generation interface for our selection and assessment offerings.
The data we collect and visualize through this platform not only provides direct benefits to our customers but gives CEB a massive asset to leverage for future insight and innovation.
Second we completed the rebranding of KnowledgeAdvisors to align with our broader corporate brand.
Now known as Metrics that Matter from CEB the business is now fully integrated into our talent management suite of offerings.
Third we continue to see great potential to combine individual talent management assets in new ways to build even more powerful solutions that are targeted at customer needs.
One great example is this year's launch of a new solution to help companies assess develop and benchmark high-potential employees or as they're known HIPOs.
To the right of the slide you see that our high-potential solution combines our unique research into HIPO attributes and behaviors with our strong assessment technologies.
Clients has used -- have used this powerful new solution to improve succession management avoid needless external hiring and improve retention.
Our clients have been vocal about the ROI of using this and other talent mobility offerings.
One client remarked "We're able to have a very rich and frank discussion on bench strength and gaps in our leadership team." Another client shared that "CEB's solutions helped give us insight into our leadership talent and prepare the most promising individuals for development into future leadership roles." Overall we're very pleased with our progress to date in building high-impact support for key talent management workflows.
Please turn to Slide 12 for an update on our third priority expanding the frontier of our brand and impact.
Building a clear compelling story about CEB in all of our markets creates demand for our offerings and supports our customers as they bring our solutions into executive suites and boardrooms.
We seek to raise our brand visibility through a variety of means.
First and foremost we work to consistently deliver surplus business value to our existing members and clients.
They're our strongest advocates and serving them well is the single biggest lever for advancing our brand.
In the quarter you saw us continue to augment this core effort with major thought leadership and PR pieces in larger-scale member and client events that bring functional communities together to discuss pressing issues.
In fact in just the past few weeks we hosted major summits for IT and HR executive as well as our annual Sales and Marketing conference in Las Vegas which gathered nearly 1 000 commercial leaders from across industries.
This set a high watermark for our internally sponsored events and has us looking forward to a similarly high-profile and high-impact event for HR members next year.
We're also deeply focused on making sure that every interaction with our members becomes a platform for demonstrating a broader set of solutions.
As a reminder our average customer buys less than 1/10 of what our 100 largest customers buy and less than 1/50 of what they could buy.
In simple terms the company could be 5 to 10x its size without any new customers or products.
We are attacking this massive opportunity both through great marketing and event strategies and much tighter integration of sales and service teams across the business.
In the quarter we took some additional steps to accelerate cross-sales and referrals.
In a number of key markets globally we are now aligning all sales and service teams along with professional services and advisory resources from every CEB business under a single market leader.
We see huge opportunity from having a clear point of accountability for conveying the breadth of what we can do to the market and from generating quickly spotting and executing on the richest possible cross-sale leads.
Given the technical nature of our products and variances in sales cycle and deal size this means we'll always have high-performing salespeople with deep individual technical specialties and committed specific focus areas but aligning these teams at the market level will ensure powerful messages and creative opportunities for delivering more robust solutions that will in turn lead to bigger deals and stronger lead flow.
Please turn to Slide 13 for an update on our fourth priority laying the foundation for future growth.
Great people and great technology are critical to our continued success.
On the people front we have a great team in place and I'm energized by their level of engagement as we enter the final months of the year.
As I have shared on prior calls our perennial goal is building a world-class CEB team.
This is a critical time of the year for talent planning.
As you can see on the right we use our own tools to develop our own talent management strategy.
We're confident we have the structures and approaches in place to drive strong engagement alignment and retention.
On the technology front in addition to the member- and client-focused platforms I mentioned we continue to invest in technologies that support and protect our operations as well as enhancing the productivity and interconnectivity of our teams.
Let me stop there and summarize my remarks on Slide 14.
Our performance thus far in 2014 keeps us on track to achieve our financial objectives for the year.
We have much work ahead to capitalize on our market opportunity and advance our strategic position but our success to date gives us confidence that we will achieve our goals for 2014.
Equally important we are beginning to set ourselves up for continued growth and success in 2015.
We've just begun the planning process and much can change in the outside world but our success and momentum in 2014 have put us in a position of strength as we look ahead to next year.
Let me close by commenting very briefly on our preliminary views on 2015.
As always our path for next year will be strongly influenced by the outcome of the important fourth quarter selling season but based on our current sales and bookings trends we believe we are setting up well for continued top and bottom line growth in the year ahead.
Accordingly we are working toward an operating plan that again contemplates organic growth near the midpoint of our long-term 8% to 13% revenue guidance range and delivers margin expansion at the high end of our 25 to 50 basis-point target range.
We'll obviously refine our views and share a more detailed picture of both our operating objectives and capital return strategies in the Q4 call and we believe that the great work of our team this year sets us up well as we enter the next.
We'll now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
First just can you talk about how the North American SHL sales force is seasoning with the acceleration we saw into the third quarter.
Is that what we're seeing? Or is there something else? I've got one quick follow-up on SHL.
Sure.
Paul yes as we said we made 3 categories of investment in the business: first some infrastructure upgrades; second additional support for our strongest salespeople; and finally additional sales capacity.
The first 2 flowed into business already are supporting consistent scaling and long-term growth and you could see some impact on Wallet retention that getting deeper in with our existing customers was probably as much a function of both new sales headcount and new sales support resources.
I think the sales hires are progressing nicely really in every market.
It's not just North America.
So we're seeing success broadly and you can -- you're starting to see their impact on the top line but they're still growing into their full capacity I'd expect you to see some benefits across the next year as they continue to mature.
Research Division</strong> And just for those hires you made at the back half of last year what -- where are we? Are they 50%? Are they 30%? Are they 70% of where they can -- where you think they can get to? Our experience is it takes really until the second full year for a salesperson to reach what I'd call average productivity and that's true in the SHL business it's true in the CEB business and beyond that you want to keep growing their productivity.
So I think you're seeing folks come online.
They're -- some are ahead of schedule.
Some are right on schedule but we're very pleased with the overall performance of the class.
But there's some additional room to go to get the full maturity and there always will be as you bring new salespeople on.
And that's a pretty consistent pattern.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just Tom the EEOC is looking into some of these online personality tests.
It's kind of investigating a couple who they think are just using it to get around various rules.
Can you just talk about that? Has that become an issue? Or is that just -- where do you -- have you seen those articles? And what's your view on it? Yes.
Our view is anything that forces people to worry about the quality of the science depth and quality of the data and richness of experience and longitude of impact here helps us.
This is -- obviously we've been at this for a while.
We have a tremendous degree of scientific validity.
We're the world's largest civilian employer of industrial organizational psychologists.
We have a lot of science behind what we do and as a result a lot of validity in what we do and I think to the extent that clients are made aware that quality and accuracy matters that helps our business quite a bit.
So we're -- we stand by the quality of our solutions and I think that those storylines within the broader context of people wanting to bring more precision in managing talent actually help the industry leader which is us.
And we'll take our next question from Joseph Foresi with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if we could just get some goalposts for what we think SHL could do over the long term.
I know it moderates in 4Q because we've got some tough comparisons but the growth rate was good.
The margins are improving.
How do we think about margin expansion and growth rates as we head into '15? And I know you've sort of raised the margin profile based on some positive SHL contribution next year but I wanted to get an idea.
Yes.
I think from a goalpost perspective our goal is to get this business comfortably growing on a sustainable basis in our 8% to 13% target growth range.
As I said in my remarks I think we're there.
This business is now consistently growing in that range and look back over the last year it's actually in the top half of that range.
Now it can and will bounce around a little bit but being consistently in that range for a very long time was the goal of our investment in the business.
And now that we're there we're starting to scale into the investments.
As we said we'd expect to be in the low 20s from an EBITDA margin perspective in 2016.
We should take a good step forward on that in 2015.
Over time like with the CEB business the long-term margin profile should be broadly comparable with the rest of our businesses and every year we'll have to go out and balance how much immediate-term opportunity we want to access by making investments in the business while delivering margin expansion.
We're in a bit of a strange cycle here but it will start to behave much more like a -- the rest of our businesses over time.
Research Division</strong> Is there any way to think about what the contribution was in North America and what you expect from those salespeople? Are there any rough stats that we can get around that? The good news for the SHL business is the performance was strong globally.
So certainly North America was part of that.
We saw a great -- particularly in the U.S.A.
we saw a particularly great strength there but it was a strong performance on a global basis.
All the regions contributed very nicely to a healthy outcome and there's a -- and remember some of the sales resource has flowed in outside the U.S.
too.
So those folks are also coming online and we're seeing good impact.
So I was pleased not only with the United States but more broadly with the global performance of the business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And last one from me.
I know you talked about maybe public sector being headwinds.
Perhaps you could lay out for us what you think is still left as -- for headwinds in the business including FX and what you think those impacts might be? Yes.
I mean I think the -- overall the government business there's not a whole lot of change there which is that it remains certainly an opportunity for future growth but in the near term it's -- the opportunity is very modest there.
So there's not a whole lot of new news on that front.
As it relates to currency there is certainly a fair amount of volatility in currencies that we've seen particularly in the last quarter or so.
So the guidance we've put out there assumes that we stay in about the same place we're at right now which we've -- currencies have been fairly stable for the last month or so.
Your guess is as good as mine what will happen in the next 2 months but that's certainly going to be something that's going to have an impact.
But overall we think the much larger impacts are going to be the continued growth on the top line and the continued expansion of margins along the lines that we had discussed previously.
And we'll take our next question from Tim McHugh with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the average Contract Value per large institution being up only very slightly I guess -- I know you talked about customer growth but maybe when you dig below the data has there been a softening in -- I guess in the pace of cross-sell amongst large corporates? And is there anything you can point to that kind of explains the story behind that? Yes.
Tim the short answer is no there actually hasn't been our existing customers continue to grow at a healthy rate.
When you add -- as you know when we add a new customer middle market large enterprise they tend to buy a thing or maybe a little more than a thing and so strength there will just average down the number unfortunately it's just math.
But we continue to see very healthy growth in our larger accounts as they continue to expand their usage of the product set.
So some of that will flow through the CEB segment some will flow through the SHL segment.
So -- but overall that's just a math effective strong new customer growth in both large enterprise and middle market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the Wallet retention with SHL I know you talked about it a little bit but the spike up relative to what we've been seeing was pretty significant I guess.
So can you elaborate a little more on I guess the activity underlying that? Was that pretty broad-based? Was it a few customers existing customers? Is that a sign of I guess employment growth at your existing customers? I guess what's behind that? Yes.
I'd say it's more just a reflection of investment in the business and great execution by the teams.
There wasn't a single customer or a single dynamic.
As we've said of our 3 categories in investment some was infrastructure some was support for the existing sales team and some was new sales headcount.
As you're growing a business the first place you go is to your best customers to find new opportunities.
This business isn't unlike any of our other businesses and the adopt -- the average customer has adopted only a portion of what they can buy from us and with some additional resource and the ability to go scout out additional potential buyers additional potential use cases becomes a very attractive near-term driver of growth.
There's also some -- the year-ago comp was weaker and as the business grows you're going to see that metric be at the high end of ranges.
I think over time you'll see this normalize a little bit it's the same effect we see in CEB which is strong new customer growth.
They start with a little bit less and they grow over time but certainly I think it just reflects great execution by the teams in finding new ways to get people to use our resources within existing clients.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then lastly I apologize if I missed it but the preliminary comment on '15 in terms of the margin improvement can you talk about what type of I guess SHL versus the legacy CEB business and how your preliminary thoughts for 2015 in terms of the margins look right now I guess? Yes.
Tim we had -- back at the Investor Day we talked about our long-term range being 25 to 50 basis points and that over the next year or 2 we would expect actually to trend toward the higher end of that range.
And so that's still our expectation as we're looking into 2015.
I think you would continue to see sort of a consistent steady margin improvement that we've historically seen in the CEB segment.
And in the SHL segment it should be a little bit stronger than that just given -- as we ramp towards that kind of EBITDA margin in the low 20s by 2016.
And we'll take our next question from Gary Bisbee with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess the first question I noticed in the press release versus the last couple you did not give us the ability to look at an organic Contract Value or deferred revenue growth excluding KnowledgeAdvisors Talent Neuron and PDRI.
I wondered if you'd be willing to give us those numbers or at least directionally.
And I'd say from the reported numbers it did look like there was a bit of deceleration in both Contract Value and particularly deferred revenue which appears to be growing at least 1 point or maybe more than that slower than what you're doing on revenue.
I guess any -- is that the right way to interpret it? And any comment on one or both of those would be great.
Gary I think the -- we stopped breaking out PDRI a couple of quarters ago and KnowledgeAdvisors and Talent Neuron have now been fully integrated into the CEB product set even linked to our core operating platforms and sales teams.
So in many respects if they're sold through our channels et cetera it didn't make sense to keep breaking them out.
So they're not truly independent businesses anymore.
I think it's safe to say that they're on track to achieve the original objectives we set for the year.
So if you think about where we began the year and the objectives we set they're tracking very comfortably within our original objectives.
The deferred revenue as we've talked about new customers come on they tend to buy subscriptions and don't tend to average up on premium services until they're a little more mature.
So if you think about premium services having a little more variability in delivery timing a little more variability in delivery cost that can create some optical issues with the deferred revenue number.
Overall we're very pleased with consistently great bookings growth and obviously we'll always take a subscription over any other form of services revenue we can get.
So we're very pleased with the contours of how we came in but you will see some -- a little bit of noise in the deferred revenue as a result.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the growth on a year-over-year basis in cost to both segments slowed as you predicted that it would but I wondered were there any timing issues within that any costs that were maybe delayed in the quarter? Or was it pretty much as you -- I know FX moved things around but pretty much as you expected outside of an FX impact.
Yes Gary.
There really weren't any major things that kind of swung expenses from 1 quarter to the next.
It was very much in line with what we had expected and as we indicated we would expect some seasonal increases in some of these line items going into the fourth quarter.
That's going to flow in both segments actually but given the stronger overall scaling of the business we expect margins to still improve as we go from third to fourth quarter.
And that's on a constant-currency basis I should say.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And I guess that leads to the next question which is if FX rates continue to stay relatively stable as they have in recent weeks can you give us any sense of what the noncash FX gain or loss would look like for the fourth quarter and what impact FX would have on margins of the segments? I know it was a drag in the first half and then a benefit this quarter.
Is it correct to assume that it would become a more significant drag on both of those in the fourth quarter? Yes.
Well let's take them separately.
So the nonoperating FX gains and losses are driven by the quarter-end mark-to-market if you will on some of the balance sheet accounts at mostly our foreign subsidiaries.
So to the extent that rates don't move at all there should essentially be no impact on a nonoperating FX basis.
So it really just depends on what rates do as of this point they're pretty stable or pretty flat to where they were at the end of the third quarter.
So if we were doing it today chances are there'd be effectively a 0 nonoperating FX gain for the quarter.
On the operating side the rates that affect revenues and then the other operating expenses on a constant-currency basis some of the rates are lower now than they were a year ago.
Some of them are a little bit higher.
So there's -- it's kind of a multivariable equation with a lots of puts and takes.
It's difficult to predict with certainty what's going to happen.
As we sit here today I don't expect to be -- it to be a major headwind.
It could possibly be a small help but we really need to just see how things play out as we go through the quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just thinking about the preliminary 2015 comments and adjusting out those nonoperating gains and losses I think that makes a lot of sense.
But those are below-the-line items so that will not impact margins? I'm just trying to think if we take the margins that we're forecasting for this year is there any reason that we wouldn't -- other than if FX moves a lot more that we wouldn't see that 25 to 50 or higher end of that actually show up versus what your reported number for this year is? I mean if you take the nonoperating impacts on margins out of the equation altogether then there certainly -- we're still predicting and forecasting that we're going to have that kind of higher end of the 25 to 50 basis-point margin improvement on a constant-currency basis.
We'll take our next question from Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Rich just to start was the EPS guidance range increased beyond the positive impact from currency for the year? The -- it might have improved a little bit.
There was a little bit of benefit in the tax rate.
The tax rate improved both on some -- to some degree on currencies and then there were a couple other items that moved it favorably but otherwise it's largely in line with what we were talking about before.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> All right.
So basically the message there is we're tracking against what we said we're going to do right.
That's the way we should look at this.
That's exactly right.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Tom how many great sales guys have you hired this year? And where are we in terms of sales additions in both CEB and SHL? We're entering the season where we'd start to ramp next year's teams in place.
I think across the 2 segments you'd probably see a slightly different pattern in that if you think about what we did in SHL was try to pull forward a couple of years' worth of sales force growth so we could do onboarding et cetera and get the investment to the business quickly.
But over the long -- so in the near-term you probably won't see sales force headcount growth in that business match revenue growth as the teams we have in place get more productive.
Over time you'd expect that to be the case that we'd expect to see sales force headcount growth be in the 8% to 13% annualized growth range that powers revenue in both segments.
I think in the near term that's exactly where we are in CEB probably a little bit under that in SHL.
Obviously given that the business now has some momentum and we're taking -- we're making sure we -- where we've got uncovered opportunity we're putting people in place and getting them to work.
But over the long term sales headcount will track very closely with organic revenue growth because that is probably the most variable cost in our business.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So would you say occasionally when you guys are doing well and you definitely take the advantage of the opportunity to get ahead of next year's hiring or get people in earlier so you can get them effective earlier would -- do you anticipate any of that happening in the fourth Q of this year maybe on the CEB segment? Sure.
We're always doing forward hiring.
So send resumes to my attention.
The -- and the net effect is we've been able to do that the past couple of years.
So we're lapping consistent number as opposed to it being a pull forward in a way that it should look funky on an annualized basis but we're -- this is a great time of year for us to be aggressively and that way people -- if you think about it very simply it's are you getting 12 months of productivity out of someone 11 or 10? And the sooner we hire them now the more of next year we get from a productivity-ramp perspective.
So absolutely we're being -- on a global basis looking for great talent right now and trying to get folks on board so they can start the year fast.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a math question I guess.
I don't have -- we don't have the detail to break out the revenue in CEB to try and get a bookings number I'd like to calculate.
Which -- were the bookings for the CEB segment in line with organic Contract Value growth a little bit higher? Because I'm calculating about 9% organic Contract Value growth and I was just wondering if the bookings have tended to be a little bit above that.
And where are we this quarter? Yes I would say the -- both the total bookings growth -- the total bookings growth is very much in line with Contract Value growth and then the organic piece would be also in line with the organic Contract Value growth.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just given what the stock movements in the quarter I understand having a program to rebuy stock but -- should we think that in times when the stock dips that you guys will be ready to go in there and repurchase more stock outside of that program? Certainly the programmatic approach we have is one that is responsive to price changes to a degree obviously we're not going to get into a lot of detail about the exact parameters of that.
But the more important philosophy is that we're taking a steady approach to repurchasing stock that's reflected in the year-to-date activity and our updated expectation for the year.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of free cash flow where is most of it? Is there a weighting of free cash regeneration like 70% U.S.
30% international along with the kind of revenue breakdown? Or how should we think of that? Yes.
There's certainly -- the free cash flow is obviously going to be generated more in line with the overall sizes of the segments and the overall size of the business in any given area.
That's probably the bigger indicator of how it gets allocated.
There's a number of expenses that are driven by -- in the U.S.
and so that can have an impact on U.S.
versus foreign cash balances.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> What I'm trying to get at is just in terms of the amount of cash that will be available on an ongoing basis that you generate for kind of deployment internally for either share repurchases or for dividends.
So I think of a certain percentage of the free cash flow is primarily invested overseas.
Or at least even if you haven't deemed it that way are you thinking of it that way? I mean certainly that is a factor in terms of what's available.
Having said that certainly we'll provide additional details in terms of how we're thinking about how much free cash flow should be available for stock repurchases and dividend payments as Tom said when we provide our 2015 guidance.
We'll take our next question from Tobey Sommer with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to explore the cash flow a little bit more.
You indicated a greater propensity to return more cash to shareholders perhaps through repurchase next year's.
Is that reflective of what you're seeing in the marketplace in terms of acquisitions? Or is it an internally generated change and kind of just a shift in philosophy? Okay.
Tobey we'll always continue to evaluate potential acquisitions for a strategic fit linkage to member and client recurring workflows and obviously economic characteristics and relative valuation.
I don't think our statements on capital allocation are intended to be a view on the M&amp;A market just the fact that given current business performance the business generates a lot of cash.
Current capital market conditions give us the flexibility to do both if a great opportunity shows up that both return cash to shareholders and execute anything we deem strategically important and accretive from a valuation perspective.
So it's not a -- our commitment to capital distribution is not a statement on M&amp;A.
In general historically if you look back there aren't that many CEB-quality businesses in the world.
So we've really always liked a focus on organic product development as a key driver of growth and innovation anyway.
But absolutely when great assets appear we will be in a position if valuations are right to act on them.
We don't see them as mutually exclusive.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> With that said do you -- with what you see in terms of your pipeline in conversations of -- for potential acquisitions? Do you -- are there in fact fewer CEB-quality targets out there and maybe the next year or 2 will be a little bit more organic than it has been over the last couple of years? Yes.
What I'd say is the range of internal capabilities we now have via things like Talent Neuron Metrics that Matter and obviously the broad suite of capabilities that SHL has plus CEB's organic data management and educational capabilities give us a lot of tools to create exciting new products and there's no particular capability gap at this point that we say "Gee we got to fill that.
Otherwise we're" -- so we have -- I'd just say on balance we like the toys in our toy box and we're kind of excited to build new things using what we've got.
You saw that with our conversation about the HIPO solution which took a CEB data set CEB analysis combined it with some of our assessment technologies and kind of mixed it in a powerful new way.
So I think -- I wouldn't say there are fewer CEB-quality businesses but if you think about the capacity of our teams to do things they're very busy on a lot of organic new product development activity right now.
And we'd have to be highly convinced if there was an exciting acquisition opportunity to distract some of that team to integrate a new acquisition.
Probably it's as much an internal capacity excitement about what we've got as it is an external availability issue.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My last question just has to do with the government market and I know it's a real small slice of the business but just curious about what you're seeing in that market and what your expectation might be if you're willing to offer one for next year.
Yes.
I think what we've seen -- let's say longer term and shorter term over the past couple of years we've seen a change in at least some elements of the procurement cycle where high quality -- it's harder to get paid for great IP in some of our areas.
We commented on that in PDRI.
I think on balance the businesses are stable.
We saw some sequential progression in PDRI and a solid performance in the CEB side of it but we're going to be very careful about how much we want to grow that business.
We only want to get the best pieces of this and compete for the most attractive components if there are some procurement questions and procurement issues that are making parts of the business less profitable or less exciting.
We'll be planful in how we attack that market.
But I'd say sequentially we saw stability and progress but we're going to be very careful with how we approach that market.
We did at the beginning of this year start rotating some people and capabilities out of that market brought some PRI resources to the commercial market rotated some people out because we thought there were better and richer opportunities outside the federal market sector than inside at this point.
And we'll take our next question from Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This is Ryan on for Manav and I know we're running over.
So I'll be brief.
I just wanted to clarify.
I think you'd said that the SHL growth in 4Q would be mid- to high single digits.
Was that constant currency? Or is that impacted by FX? That's constant currency.
Research Division</strong> Constant currency great.
And then I mean obviously the growth among the middle-sized clients was pretty impressive.
Is that kind of a future state -- is the large client -- for the large institutions the CV per member institution is that just a matter of saturation? Or is there now a shifting focus towards growing that middle market even further? No.
We actually saw very good new client growth in both middle market and large enterprise and there are still -- if you look at the Fortune 100 there aren't dozens of them for us to go get that first membership at but if you look at the broader universe of just under 5 000 large corporate entities globally there is still plenty of great new logos to put on the membership list and start growing.
And so we had a strong quarter in large enterprise new logo acquisition as well.
So the new logo acquisition story was not a middle-market phenomenon exclusively.
It was a large-enterprise phenomenon and a global phenomenon.
So the ACV is going to have a dampening effect when you have that kind of quarter and add a lot of great new logos because we -- the customers tend to start with a narrow set of products usually a thing to get going and over time that becomes a great platform for cross-sell and premium services et cetera.
But in the very near term they tend to start below the large corporate average and that does create a slight dampening effect.
Our largest and best -- large enterprises continue to grow at a very healthy clip but there's an optical effect when you do add lots of large enterprises down at the low-end buying that first thing.
So now this doesn't -- it's not a shift in the growth strategy at all.
It's just good news that we're able -- like a good story that we're able to get out and get customers engaged for the first time and get them onto that growth path that we've historically seen.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And on SHL in your talks with clients is there anything you've -- they've kind of said that needs to be added? Or is there any additional investment to kind of build out capabilities there whether it be organically or through kind of any tuck-in to just build out that platform? Yes.
We talked a lot this year about the TalentCentral platform which is -- really if you think about that business there's 2 types of experiences you're engineering toward.
One is a great candidate experience people who are applying for jobs or trying to get into a leadership development program within their own organization.
Our teams spend a lot of time making sure those people have great experiences that it's simple easy to use et cetera; and the administrator.
And the -- think about the HR department whether it be that of talent acquisition or the head of HR who wants to manage that process wants to see data coming from those pipelines.
The TalentCentral platform is a big step forward on both functions and that gives us -- we'll obviously keep evolving that platform in both directions but the core focus of our investment this year was to get a great new platform in place and so far customer feedback has been terrific.
But we'll keep evolving that and I expect that that will be an everyday part of the story as we make both the candidate and employee experience richer on one end of the system and the analytic and administrative capabilities richer on the other end.
And we'll take our final question today from David Ridley-Lane of Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the preliminary guidance.
Just on revenue the U.S.
dollar appreciation that we've seen year-to-date that's likely to have a call it 1- to 2-point drag in 2015 correct? And so I'm just wondering first am I in the ballpark on that? And then was that guidance constant currency or sort of including that? It's constant-currency guidance David and certainly the -- as we sit here today with the pound that on a relative basis would be a bit of a headwind.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then did you -- I heard somebody ask it before but I'll try one more time.
The Contract Value contribution that you -- the number you gave last quarter for Talent Neuron and KnowledgeAdvisors is that relatively the same if we're using that as a proxy for what it was in the third quarter? It's not a bad number to use.
Suffice it -- I mean you can assume we're continuing to make steady progress but it's not a bad number to use.
And again the more important point is that those businesses are really very well assimilated into the segment overall and we're focusing in on the overall number as the platform for growth and the way to think about growth going forward.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then when you give the new definitions for free cash EPS and adjusted EBITDA you're going to give reconciliations for the prior year correct? You can assume that we would provide yes prior year figures that were adjusted in the same way.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Monahan for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks everybody for calling in or logging into today's event.
Let me close the call by summarizing my earlier remarks.
Our performance keeps us on track to achieve our strategic and financial objectives for the year and we're pleased with broad-based healthy organic growth from all of our major markets.
We're also excited as we look ahead to 2015 that we are in a position to continue sustaining this performance.
Rich and I look forward to seeing many of you in our travels over the next few months.
We're currently slated to be in the next few weeks at the JPMorgan Ultimate Services Conference and the SunTrust Business Services Conference and are currently planning some other opportunities to be out on the road with investors as well.
Thanks everyone for calling in.
We look forward to keeping you updated on the CEB story.
Thank you and that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll first go to Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Hi.
Thank you very much for taking my questions this morning.
Tom and Rich can you talk a little bit more about the professional services component of SHL? And is there a seasonal cycle to that? Can you explain exactly what you are doing and what your efforts to convert some of the professional services type effort to kind of a recurring contract?  Shlomo it's Tom.
If you look at the SHL business it breaks roughly into 70% subscription and/or highly recurring contracts that are usually on the core technology platform and selection and assessment instruments; and 30% is services tied to and related to those tools and resources.
And what you find is the professional services component of the business usually is at one of two levels either at the front end of a new usage of a new tool a new product et cetera where they need a little help configuring exactly what they want to get done.
They know they want to use these technologies and tools to make better decisions; but which population which region which cut score which thing do they want to influence? And that is a human interchange – a smart person sitting down with them and helping them think about that really helps them get the better outcomes.
And then often as they deploy the tools and resources there's always room for interpretation.
What exactly is this telling me? How can I make better decisions? How can I drive better outcomes? So there's a consistent engagement.
Some of that does get bundled into the subscriptions but a fair bit is actually consumed as people use the tools and services.
We're – obviously it's good revenue so we're pleased with it.
Second we think it's a good indicator when people are using more of it sooner because it means they are deploying the tools more broadly using it to apply to better and more frequent interactions with their labor markets et cetera.
So we think the acceleration usage we saw is a healthy indicator.
Over time as subscriptions grow in that business some of that gets bundled in it will be less visible as it moves between quarters.
But right now because it's built out as it's consumed it shows up when they use it.
And was the usage that we are seeing right in the last quarter the high usage – was it a – the front-end or the back-end? In other words does this kind of illustrate that we have more demand coming up? Or is this hey we've already instituted stuff over the last year and now we want to get more insight out of what we've got? just because that's when people tend to do stuff.
Third is a little quiet – it's summer; people aren't making a lot of decisions about promotions inside their company or hiring outside it.
So you do tend to see a little bit more seasonal activity.
And in Q4 we just saw an acceleration of that.
And then could you – Rich maybe you could talk about this.
You had Contract Value growth of about 8.7%.
But if you do the math I'm coming up with bookings growth of 10.1%.
And is there – could you kind of bridge that a little bit in why I'm not seeing a higher Contract Value growth reflective of those bookings?  Sure.
There's a couple factors at play.
As an overview you are seeing a little bit of a different trend in terms of how the business flows from bookings into Contract Value into revenue due to the timing of some of the services revenue.
And some of the projects some of the premium service consumption has a shorter timeframe to be consumed than a typical contract itself.
So it will move through Contract Value faster.
You also have some impacts from FX and also the impact of the historical impact of the government factors that we talked about earlier.
So Contract Value is a little bit more of a cumulative look-back type of metric where the bookings are more kind of real-time in the quarter activity.
Okay.
And then is there a way we should think – can you talk a little bit more just about SHL margin progression through the year? And then – from a seasonal perspective? And then just in general how we should think of the margin progression in a multiyear period.
Yes.
I mean I think you're going to – you're certainly going to see improvement in margins throughout the full year of 2014.
That's what we would anticipate happening.
You will see some seasonality in there as well consistent with some of the revenue trends.
So as revenue declines into the first quarter which is our expectation you should see a lower margin relatively there as a result.
That should pick up again in the second quarter on stronger revenue and such.
I think over time we still think that they should be able to – we should be able to move the margins back closer to where that company was performing on a margin basis at the time of acquisition.
But that's still going to be a process over probably a couple-year period.
Okay I'm just going to leave with a last question.
Can you just talk more qualitatively on the progression in the cross-sell in the US which seemed to be the most immediate opportunity for SHL?  I think Shlomo we're early days still.
We saw North America continue to gather momentum in the SHL business and we certainly have seen good promising early indicators in terms of cross-selling across both businesses.
But to be honest the richer opportunity is still ahead of us.
We see good indicators.
We've got good processes in place.
But we are not – I think it was a minor contributor to the great performance of that business in the quarter.
I think more of the great performance of that business was just teams going out and executing incredibly well on the opportunities in front of them.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Just – I wanted to ask about the revenues.
And it sounds like FX is definitely one factor.
But you said a quarter ago midpoint of the guidance now the adjusted revenue guidance implies 8 to 10 which is in the lower half of the range.
So PDRI is probably a little weaker.
FX it sounds like is a bit of a headwind.
Are those the two primary factors? Or is there anything else that's led to a bit more conservatism?  No I think those are certainly factors.
I'd say the guidance certainly reflects our current visibility and plans for the year and it's definitely inside the long-term range.
I think you're – there is a little bit of noise when you're looking at the year-over-year comparison based on the fact that we did accelerate some revenue into the fourth quarter of this year that we had otherwise expected to come in the first quarter.
So there's a little bit of a shift there that dampens those growth rates a little bit.
And then as you said kind of FX is a headwind still and PDRI is also a small headwind.
Can we get a little more color on that concept of pulling sales forward and now you need a pipeline build was how I think you said it? What exactly happened? And how quickly do you think that gets back on track?  Gary if you think about the way this – when a customer let's say in the CEB segment buys a subscription sometimes they will package in a little bit of a premium service.
Think about a company that wants to use all our great sales data but also wants us to do two one-day kickoffs in each of its divisions to share the key findings of what we've learned and how it applies to them.
The bulk of the revenue comes in the form of a subscription that we recognize across the next 12 months.
But we have to – as we talked about a couple years ago we have to recognize those two one-day events when they occur.
And normally it has a pretty standard set of distributions.
We saw more people in Q4 saying hey I want that kickoff in December versus January which moves revenue from one year into the other.
So that was in Contract Value.
It drops through revenue in the quarter.
And obviously we think it's great because it means people are using our work more often and frequently sooner which is fantastic.
So we're – our answer is sure when they ask.
But it means that when we open the doors on January 1 some things that would have been in CEB last year at this time have moved already through revenue and puts us a little bit in a position where we need to rebuild that revenue profile.
Does that make sense? That's great.
Yes it does.
And then the member relations and marketing expense grew quite a bit sequentially.
I think you said there was some pulling forward of sales hiring or sales hiring ahead of 2014 for the CEB segment.
In light of that how should we think about that in absolute dollar terms trending? Is it likely to be flattish in the next quarter or so? Or do we see a continued growth progression in that expense line?  You are saying what's the sequential trend in member relations and marketing? Yes.
I mean it was up a little more than $5 million sequentially.
And I think you said you did some hiring ahead.
If you did the hiring ahead does that mean it's sort of a flattish trend in the next quarter or two? I'm just trying to think through Q1.
You know it's flattish to potentially a little bit down just based on some of the other activities that occur in the first quarter that are more variable you know things like travel and such like that.
But certainly the hiring a large portion of the hiring was done as we came into the year.
There's still going to be more hiring as we go through the year.
But that was a big component.
Another component was frankly some additional incentive accruals based on performance in the fourth quarter which was better than we had anticipated before.
So that drove kind of a higher incentive rate in the fourth quarter.
And obviously performance in the first quarter will have an impact on where those land for first quarter.
But that might normalize a bit as we go into this year.
And then just one last one for me – are you willing – do you have the data or could you share with us – in the past in the fourth quarter you have given us the Contract Value growth in the year for your top 200 customers.
Did that number continue to trend at a higher rate than the total Company growth? Thank you.
Yes it was a little bit higher than the total Company.
The total Company Contract Value per institution was about 1.4%.
That top 200 number went up by 2% 3%.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Yes.
Thank you.
So the CEB segment wallet retention has been ticking down a little bit through the year.
Any trends you've been seeing on renewal rates among clients or perhaps among membership programs?  Hey David.
We expect that number to bounce around a little bit within a healthy zone and we certainly think we are in a healthy zone.
A couple factors pushed it down versus last year's comp just down marginally.
One is – remember last year we had a small one-time benefit from the inclusion of Alterra still flowing through that number.
This is – if you think about this number – this is also where the currency and government headwinds flow through.
Government was the place where in essence we had every customer in government.
And on balance they bought a little less from us.
So that's going to flow right through.
Beyond that though I think we saw consistent strength across the business and across the regions – setting aside US government as a small sour note – consistent strength across the regions on a constant currency basis in renewal rate in cross-sell et cetera.
So all the customer dynamics remained really healthy and that's why that number is in a good zone to start with.
Okay.
Maybe a quick one for Rich.
Any range on the acquisition-related costs that you expect in 2014?   You know I think there will be a little bit coming through on Talent Neuron through the year as we integrate that business.
But certainly nowhere near what we saw in 2013.
We are not going to be reporting any more acquisition-related costs related to SHL in 2014.
Got it.
And then maybe one last one – can you give us – I know in the CEB segment you've been focused on software tool add-ons and training and other revenue sources outside the core membership revenue.
Can you give us an update for in the CEB segment what percentage of revenue now comes from those non-membership sources?  David about 10% still.
We are adding those things.
We think the primary objective is to help people use the core membership programs more.
And that's really what we are seeing.
They drive great occasions for us to make the products stickier and activate broader usage.
And so the percentage of overall CEB segment revenue hasn't moved much even as the business has grown.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Yes.
Excuse me just following up on some of the other questions about the headwind from foreign exchange and I guess the timing of some revenue movement forward.
Can you quantify any of that at all for us? For – I think foreign exchange I guess you did but how much revenue moved forward relative to what is normal – or how much Contract Value moved forward relative to what's normal? And then the drag – I guess how much of a drag in Contract Value from the government?  As far as the – roughly $5 million of revenue was in the fourth quarter number that accelerated from where we otherwise would have thought it would have been in the first quarter.
As far as the government drag on Contract Value certainly that business is showing signs of stabilization.
And we have very modest expectations for that business for this year.
So it's not going to be certainly a contributor to Contract Value growth in the year.
Were you looking for a backward look at government or a forward look?  Yes I guess what I'm trying to get at is kind of if you strip out government and I guess this timing thing is the underlying trend for North America faster or slower than before? Given – it sounds like Europe had a good close to the finish.
And given the overall number is down I'm trying to understand all those puts and takes and understand if the core kind of North America business slowed a little or is kind of still trending in line?  I think the core North American business in both large enterprise and middle-market corporate is a blessed sense of no news at all.
It continues to make great progress I think very consistently across the quarters and across the years.
Okay.
And then on SHO where – so you're talking about excluding foreign exchange some pretty healthy margin lift it sounds like.
So I am assuming you are not adding a ton of sales people at this point but what would be your thought on continuing to invest in that sales force? Is there the potential that you start to see as you start to see productivity of that sales force you will make another round of significant investment? Or are we more in the harvesting phase of that investment for the next two years?  I think our view longer-term is we'll grow the sales force roughly in line with the revenue growth.
It's served the other CEB segment pretty well.
So given the healthy growth in that business and given the systems and processes we have put in place we think we've built a great platform to continue adding salespeople at a rate consistent with the high levels of growth we see there.
Would that be true even this year? Or do you wait to see some productivity from the large amount you added last year?  Yes we're certainly selectively finding some places to add capacity.
But we did do a one-time step-up that we're still digesting a little bit.
But you do see some impact on the – you do see some impact already from the investments we made last year.
You're certainly not going to see anywhere near the same magnitude of investment that you saw in 2013.
Okay.
And somewhat related to that just a little bit more long-term but now that you've had this business for 18 months or so the margins obviously came down a lot last year in big part I think because of the sales force investment.
But is there any reason as you see that sales force mature that you want to get back to historical margins looking out three years or something like that?  I think that's certainly our objective.
And we don't see any reason why we shouldn't be able to get back to that level of margins.
It's not going to happen this year.
And it's going to depend on us getting the full leverage out of the investments we've made and continuing to progress on the path we're on.
And we feel good about the direction that we're heading in.
I guess just – and one more follow-up.
How is pricing for SHO relative to the trends? I don't think I've heard you say a lot about the pricing trends relative to where you've been.
Are they flattish? Are they up or down a little?  Yes I think there's a little noise as the conversion to subscription continues to unfold.
Because in some cases when you convert to a subscription you probably give up a little bit of the marginal pricing of a spot buy but overall pricing trends are very healthy.
Okay.
Thank you.
Hi.
I was wondering just on – my first question here the guidance seems to be at a very kind of wide range here.
Maybe you can help us understand the differences between the top and bottom of those ranges as far as assumptions?  In terms of just the revenue piece or the EPS? Well I think – actually I think you explained sort of the FX in the margin side so more on the revenue side yes.
Yes.
Well certainly just as always there's going to be – a lot is going to depend on execution.
There's going to be certainly some impact in terms of overall economic conditions.
We feel like conditions are pretty stable right now.
We've seen some improvement in Europe.
We certainly as Tom said still see very solid conditions in North America.
We're – but it's largely going to depend on execution of the entire team as we go through the year.
Okay.
So – okay then.
Maybe just ask it a different way.
On the Contract Value we spent a lot of different time there.
How does that look as we go through the year? Obviously we had FX and PDRI in the fourth quarter.
It sounds like there was some pull forward of some business.
You talked about rebuilding the pipeline.
What's the progression of Contract Value as you look at the demand environment right now as we go through 2014?  Yes well I think generally speaking it should follow the same kinds of seasonal trends that you've typically seen.
And typically Contract Value will dip a bit in the first quarter and then grow as we go throughout the year.
And it's going to grow over longer periods of time in line with bookings growth.
And we are at a level right now that generally speaking bookings are in line with that – those long-term ranges and Contract Value should be following along with that as well.
Got it.
So step-down from this level in the first quarter and then build along with the rest of the revenues? Is that fair?   Yes.
Okay.
And then lastly on the SHL growth profile I don't know if I misheard this but I think it's showed up at about I don't know 16% that the growth rate has been pretty good in the business.
I think you might have mentioned that that seems like a high water mark.
Maybe you could just walk us through the growth profile for that business going forward and what your thoughts are there.
Sure.
I think – we obviously are excited by the momentum that business has continued to show over the last three quarters.
And we think as the business continues to grow we see plenty of opportunity for healthy growth in our traditional 8% to 13% organic growth rate.
This was a little bit beyond that because of some one-time client deliveries et cetera.
And there's probably not a major headwind but a minor headwind as more and more of that business converts to subscription.
When someone converts to a subscription in the first quarter that probably moderates their revenue growth a little bit.
So when you take all those factors into account on one side – incredibly vast opportunities out in front of us great execution by the team and a little bit of a headwind from conversion to subscriptions – we think that consistently you will see that business in the 8% to 13% range.
Obviously this quarter we got out ahead of that.
And no one gets punished when that happens but I think it's reasonable to expect it will be in that range more often than it's out of it.
Yes you can feel free to get out ahead of it more (laughs) but – the last question just on SHL.
Going forward do you think that – is there the potential that you may receive some level of upside on your aggregate numbers as the margin profile improves and as growth rates stay – moderate and/or stay strong? I'm just wondering if what you're building into the progression going forward that on an aggregate basis there's certainly the potential that SHL outperforms particularly because it's technology-based?  Yes.
I mean I think certainly there is some potential over time to get better leverage there and that would be one of the things that should drive us back towards those historical margins over time.
I think for this year we definitely expect some improvement but not step function-level improvement.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I was wondering if you think you're taking share in SHL? You know if you think of share as what percentage of talent decisions that people make using any resource other than their own judgment absolutely.
Yes that's – the longer-term opportunity here is not really between other assets in the space.
The longer opportunity is to convert more and more talent decisions to having rigor and quantitative analysis behind them.
One of the statistics we came across recently is that your average fantasy football player consults four information sources before making a decision above 13.
Your average corporate manager consults none.
So we see a major opportunity to just keep getting more rigor more analysis and better decision-making into how people think about talent in their organization.
So that's a long-term trend that we think benefits – and the growth in the business indicates we are doing that every day.
Sure.
But relative to players that are in the space selling different services to help effect the same broader change in the way managers behave how do you feel the growth is in SHL? How does it compare? Yes.
I think we've got such a strong resource base that we can put – someone who is really serious about improving the quality of their decisions would have a very hard time looking elsewhere for help.
And I think our teams feel that we are very well positioned.
And I think the data seems – or the data we can gather seems to indicate that we show pretty well in putting the value of our tools in front of people and displacing other tools or making sure that people use more of our tools versus taking other resources into their organization.
We feel good about the quality of the resources and the conversation that allows us to have as people automate and instrument more of these decisions.
So we feel good about the trend line on that front.
I do think the larger opportunity is still gathering more decisions even as we continue to compete for and win the ones that people have an intention of using help on.
Thank you.
And the people that were involved in the government customer base that were kind of repositioned and repurposed last year is there a ramp time for them to be productive with commercial customers? Or is that transition relatively quick?  The answer is kind of all the above with a couple of the senior – we still have a great team in place in government.
The government business isn't going away.
So the CEB.gov and the PDRI businesses are strong.
We just can't ask them to grow as fast as the rest of the Company this year.
We do have very strong teams in place against those.
We did selectively move a few high performers out and gave them commercial opportunities.
And since they're high performers you would guess that the speed at which they are able to have some impact is pretty fast.
And we're – we've got them in place early this year and you can assume they will see a pretty quick ramp across the year.
Some of the stuff that will be slower is where the PDRI resources which are highly relevant to some commercial sector problems that we don't have great resources in place for right now are being repositioned.
And that's going to take a couple quarters for the messaging the positioning and the impact of those to be where they need to be.
But I think you'll see that flow-in across the year.
So separating people from solutions people probably have faster impact than the repositioning of some of these solutions.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just two quick ones on the SHL North American sales force.
Just where are they on their sort of seasoning or getting up to productivity? And can you – besides the pull forward of demand – and there was some I think you said in SHL as well – how much is that bigger sales force contributing to that 16% constant currency growth? And then second just – Rich I just want to make sure I'm doing my calcs right – 80 basis points of margin headwind sounds like about $0.13 to EPS versus what it would have been without the FX for 2014 guidance.
Does that sound right to you? Thanks.
Yes.
If you look at the sales force I think at a very macro level we are certainly very pleased with the investments we made really at two levels.
One is putting additional support in for the great sales people that were already in the business making sure they were supported from a process perspective and a support staff booking meetings perspective.
And some of those benefits flow through more quickly.
If you just give a top sales performer more help and get them in front of more customers more often you are going to see better outcomes.
So those investments probably pay off a little more quickly.
The brand-new quota-bearing FTEs are staying right with what we have seen our historical ramp to productivity is.
So in a first year their contribution is marginal; the second year they start to pick up some momentum.
Usually in the third year they start to arrive at average sales force productivity.
So I think we will continue to see their productivity ramps across this year.
As with all things a few are already having tremendous impact.
The rest will I'm sure come online across this year and be full contributors by next year.
And Paul yes you're in the right ballpark there with that calculation.
Great.
And Tom I'd like to just come back to it – so it sounds like we are still early innings on the – that sort of bulk hiring you did ramp to productivity?  Yes.
I think we're at third and fourth inning.
And it's progressing – the question we ask is does it look like they are progressing at a very healthy rate vis-a-vis past sales classes that we've brought in? And the answer is yes.
I think the – some of the work we did to put in place good strong process good strong support mechanisms is leading to good healthy progression through the normal ramp.
If I could sneak one more in.
Tom you hired all these people through the SHL database for system correct? – using that SHL analytics?  We've been very active consumers of assessment and predictive technologies in all of our sales activities.
And you can imagine the SHL tools are at the very heart of that yes.
Thank you.
Yes sorry just two quick numbers questions follow-up.
Rich how much of the depreciation and amortization is intangible amortization that gets added back when we do adjusted earnings?  For this quarter? For the year – the 63 to – or 64 to 66 or whatever the D&amp;A guidance you gave.
It's going to be very similar to the number we had this year which was in if I remember well in the low 30s.
I'd have to pick that number up specifically.
Okay.
And then just…  It's not going to be meaningfully different from – it will go up a little bit on the Talent Neuron acquisition but not a lot.
Okay.
And then I was looking back.
I thought I had it but did you give what the exact currency impact on Contract Value growth was for the quarter? What it would have been on a constant currency basis?  It held back Contract Value growth by about 50 basis points in the quarter.
Okay thank you.
Thanks everyone for calling in or logging in.
We always appreciate the opportunity to bring you up to speed on the CEB story and the great work our teams are doing around the world.
We look forward to seeing many of you on our travels across the next couple months.
Rich and I will be at the Baird event in late February and on the road a couple of times during the quarter.
For those of you who have your calendars out and are looking further ahead we really do hope to see many of you at our Annual Investor Day on June 18th in our Arlington Virginia offices.
We look forward to keeping you updated on the CEB story as the year progresses.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to CEB's First Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through May 7 by dialing 719-457-0820.
The replay pass code is 2022712.
The replay will also be available beginning later today and through May 7 at the company's website.
To the extent any non-GAAP financial measures discussed in today's call you will also find a reconciliation of that measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated according to GAAP by going to the company's website and reviewing yesterday's news release.
You'll also find a PDF of the supporting materials that the company will use in its prepared remarks this morning by going to the company's website and following the link to the first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Please review the second page of these materials which includes important information about any forward-looking information included in the presentation.
This conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements among others regarding CEB's expected quarterly and annual financial performance for fiscal 2015 or beyond.
For this purpose any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing discussions of forecast estimates targets plans beliefs expectations and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
You're hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by important factors among others set forth in CEB's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its first quarter news release.
Consequently actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the conference over to the company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Tom Monahan.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Thanks everyone for calling and/or logging in this morning.
We appreciate the opportunity to bring you up to speed on the continued impact growth and profitability of the business.
I'll kick off the call with some summary comments about our performance in the first quarter.
Rich will then provide a more detailed discussion of our financial results and outlook for the remainder of the year.
I'll then close with a look at go-forward strategic priorities before we take your questions.
I'll begin my remarks on slide three.
In summary we're off to a solid start in 2015.
As most of you know Q1 performance usually reflects some seasonal patterns that are consistent year-to-year throughout the business.
In general Q1 is our heaviest quarter for renewals and a bit lighter in terms of new sales and cross-sells.
Given bookings and expense patterns it is also a strong quarter for cash flow and our end of quarter balance sheet usually reflects a seasonally strong cash collection profile.
Within that backdrop our first quarter outcomes put us in a position to achieve our revenue and profit goals for 2015 on a constant currency basis.
The first quarter's results also allow us to execute on our planned strategy for higher levels of capital return even as we maintain flexibility to act strategically.
And most importantly we continue to lay the groundwork for sustained performance in 2015 and beyond.
However we are focused on sharp execution to achieve all we set out to accomplish in the year.
We had a solid start to the year but at this point I'd probably give our performance a B rather than an A as I am not fully satisfied that we are performing to our potential everywhere.
Given our unmatched installed base of customers unparalleled sets of insights and solutions and strong seasoned teams I see an opportunity for us to achieve at higher level as the year unfolds and our guidance reflects that expectation.
Before I hand the call to Rich let me offer some additional color about the quarter.
To reflect the actual performance of our business and teams I'll use constant currency outcomes as a baseline.
All of our major markets turned in solid results for the quarter.
We continue to enjoy benefits from the breadth of our business across diverse sectors and geography and the energy and commitment of top-notch teams.
With respect to geographic end markets we continue to see modest variations in CEB segment Contract Value growth.
All three major geographic areas grew at or near the corporate average with EMEA performing below the average growth rate by a couple hundred basis points and the North American and Asia-Pacific regions growing slightly above.
Within the CEB segment drivers of growth continued in line with our historical targets with prices increases on renewed programs trending in the historical 3% to 5% range.
Other key growth drivers are also largely trending within their historical ranges setting us up well to achieve our targets for the year.
We're focusing on two places as we get out of the gate.
First as you would guess we see limited opportunity for near-term growth in oil and gas and similar commodities-related industries.
Thus we've had to do some rebalancing of opportunities against territories and teams.
CEB's broad industry footprint is a real asset in situations like this.
Less than 3% of our members are in oil and gas and we have deep relationships in businesses that actually benefit from lower oil prices.
However this does require our teams to shift focus.
Second we are doubling down on how to most effectively support our largest customers.
One of the real drivers of our growth and our go-forward strategy has been the rapid growth of our largest customers.
As we continue to redefine what it means to be a large CEB customer we need to be vigilant in making sure that our teams are equipped and held accountable for managing more complex relationships.
The SHL segment also started the year on the right track.
Constant currency revenue growth was in our target range even as we see continued normalization of margins.
We also got off to a good start on the booking front following the continued trend towards subscription contracts that we discussed last year.
Clearly we're seeing the progress we want to on the margin front.
Rich will get into more detail here but the headline numbers are a mix of continued scaling and normalization cost management and efficiency and some one-time optical factors.
Currency movements obviously affect the reported margin but the timing of new product launches and some sales and marketing activity ramps also shifted expenses a bit later in the year.
The larger takeaway from the quarter is that we are on track to meet our margin targets.
Finally let me spend a moment on capital allocation.
Our strong cash position and solid bookings put us in a position to continue our high levels of capital return and to keep our eyes open for strategic opportunities.
While valuations for some smaller companies in our segments continue to be a bit challenging we do see opportunities for smaller tuck-in acquisitions and these may materialize over the next six quarters.
In summary we're off to a solid start in 2015 but given the opportunity immediately in front of us and our expectations for the year we're also holding ourselves to a high standard of execution and focus as the year unfolds.
Let me now hand the call to Rich to discuss a detailed review of our financial performance and outlook for the year.
Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
Please turn now to slide four for a summary recap of our results.
As you are surely aware the U.S.
dollar strengthened further during the quarter and this continuing trend impacts both our results for this quarter and our outlook for the rest of the year.
At a consolidated level foreign exchange rates constrained year-over-year adjusted revenue growth by approximately 340 basis points and reduced adjusted EBITDA by $1.6 million.
Based on the rates in effect at March 31 2015 we now see about a 450-basis point headwind to full year revenue growth due to currencies.
Revenue was $221.6 million in the first quarter of 2015 an increase of 5.8% on a year-over-year basis.
Adjusted EBITDA margin was 23.9% in the first quarter compared to 19.8% in the first quarter of 2014.
Diluted earnings per share was $0.56 compared to $0.22 in the first quarter of 2014 and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.73 versus $0.56 in the comparable prior-year quarter.
As a reminder beginning this quarter we are now adjusting our non-GAAP metrics to exclude the impact of net non-operating foreign currency gains and losses included in other income.
Now let's turn to slide five and I'll review our key operating metrics for the quarter.
CEB segment Contract Value at March 31 2015 was $663.1 million which is up 6.8% year-over-year.
On a constant currency basis Contract Value growth was 9.1%.
Constant currency CEB segment Wallet retention rate was 97% versus 99% a year ago.
SHL Talent Measurement segment Wallet retention rate was 104% versus 103% last year.
Wallet retention in both segments remains in the normal range and continues to provide a solid platform for overall growth in revenue.
Total CEB segment member institutions grew 6.1% to 6 961 in the first quarter reflecting continued growth in the CEB segment middle market and large corporate memberships.
CEB segment Contract Value per member institution on a constant currency basis was $97.2 thousand at March 31 2015 which is a 2.9% year-over-year increase reflecting the mix impact from both middle-market members and strength in large corporate new logo acquisition.
To illustrate this affect CEB segment Contract Value per institution at March 31 was $146.7 thousand for large corporate members and $30.5 thousand in middle market representing annual increases of 2.7% and 5.6% respectively.
Please turn to slide six and I'll review key segment highlights for the quarter.
CEB segment revenue was $172.9 million in the first quarter an increase of 7.6% versus the first quarter of 2014.
On a constant currency basis CEB segment adjusted revenue growth was 9%.
As compared to the prior year SHL Talent Measurement segment revenue was flat and adjusted revenue declined 1.3% to $49.1 million in the first quarter of 2015.
SHL Talent Measurement segment revenue includes a $400 000 reduction to reflect the deferred revenue fair value adjustment.
And so on a constant currency basis SHL Talent Measurement segment adjusted revenue growth was 8%.
Consolidated operating expenses grew more slowly on a year-over-year basis than in prior years.
As compared to the first quarter of 2014 cost of services increased $1.4 million member relations and marketing expense decreased $700 000 and general administrative costs decreased $300 000.
The stronger U.S.
dollar mitigated year-over-year increases across all of these categories as did slower head-count growth and disciplined cost management.
In addition our first quarter expense profile was favorably impacted by a timing shift of some sales marketing and new product development activities that will contribute to sequentially higher expenses in the second quarter.
As discussed on our last call we recorded an additional $1.2 million of restructuring costs in the first quarter.
Interest income and other was $5.7 million in the first quarter of 2015 as compared to net expense of $500 000 in the first quarter of 2014.
This year-over-year change was primarily due to net non-operating FX gains driven by the continued strengthening of the U.S.
dollar versus the British pound.
Interest expense in the first quarter of 2015 was $4.4 million compared to $4.9 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin in the first quarter of 2015 was 23.9% versus 19.8% in the first quarter of 2014 reflecting expense scaling on year-over-year revenue growth.
In the CEB segment adjusted EBITDA margin in the quarter was 25.7% reflecting solid revenue growth and cost management.
In this segment the favorable foreign currency impact on expenses offset the related revenue headwinds and provided a net 30 basis point boost to adjusted EBITDA margin.
Accordingly on a constant currency basis CEB segment adjusted EBITDA margin would have been 25.4% in the first quarter of 2015 versus 22.1% in the first quarter of 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA margin for the SHL Talent Measurement segment was 17.9%.
Margin in this segment continue to normalize as revenue growth stays in the target range and operating expense growth slows.
The impact of FX rates on operating profit reduced adjusted EBITDA margin by approximately 110 basis points in this segment and so on a constant currency basis SHL Talent Measurement segment adjusted EBITDA margin would have been approximately 19% in the first quarter of 2015 versus 12.5% in the first quarter of 2014.
Depreciation and amortization in the first quarter was $16.8 million an increase of $300 000 compared to the first quarter of 2014.
The provision for income taxes was $12.2 million in the first quarter and the effective tax rate was 38.9% versus an effective tax rate of 41.3% in the first quarter of 2014.
Please turn to slide seven for balance sheet and cash flow highlights.
We remain in a healthy financial position with $204.2 million of cash at March 31.
Accounts receivable were $190.9 million and the current portion of deferred revenue was $478.7 million at March 31 2015.
As compared to the prior year deferred revenue increased 5.7%.
On a constant currency basis deferred revenue growth was 8.1% which is a positive leading indicator for future revenue.
We ended the quarter with $503 million of total debt and our ratio of net debt to trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA was approximately 1.2 times.
While leverage stepped down meaningfully since December 31 this outcome is largely due to strong seasonal cash flows in the first quarter and we would expect this metric to move up in the next three months.
Additionally we continue to maintain access to about $189 million of undrawn availability under our revolver.
Cash flows from operations in the first quarter of 2015 were $124.1 million an increase of 8.4% compared to 2014.
These cash flows were very consistent with historical seasonal patterns even as year-over-year growth was tempered a bit by timing differences on cash tax payments.
In the quarter we spent $6.1 million on capital expenditures.
We continue to focus on cash distribution given the attractive margin and cash flow characteristics of our business and we paid $12.5 million in dividends while repurchasing $6.6 million of stock during the first quarter.
These actions reflect the approach we outlined on our last earnings call.
Given the quality of our business models and the strength of our underlying operations we have ample liquidity both to return capital to shareholders via our enhanced dividend and share buyback while also remaining strategically active should great opportunities arise.
Please turn to slide eight and we'll move on to our outlook.
The following comments are intended to fall under the Safe Harbor provisions outlined at the beginning of the call and reflect assumptions which are subject to change.
As Tom said at the beginning of today's call our first quarter performance puts us in a position to achieve our revenue and profit goals for the year on a constant currency basis.
Our financial results continue to be exposed to foreign currencies especially the British pound the euro and the Australian dollar and the stronger U.S.
dollar is creating what is now about a 450 basis point headwind to year-over-year revenue growth.
While these influences will remain variable throughout the year going forward we believe it will be useful to refresh our views each quarter based on the prior quarter's ending exchange rates.
Accordingly we have updated our 2015 outlook to reflect foreign currency exchange rates that were in effect as of March 31 2015.
In particular this guidance assumes an average exchange rate of $1.48 to the British pound $1.08 to the euro and $0.76 to the Australian dollar.
As currencies continue to move throughout the year the impact of FX will be an important factor influencing where we land in our guidance ranges especially for revenue.
These top line exposures are somewhat mitigated by natural cost offsets and we have also broadened our currency hedging program to reduce a portion of the volatility that flows through to our earnings.
We now expect our full year 2015 adjusted revenue to be between $945 million and $970 million and that the reduction in revenue from the deferred revenue fair value adjustment will be approximately $1 million this year so the GAAP revenue outlook is $944 million to $969 million.
Importantly these ranges would represent constant currency adjusted revenue growth of 8% to 11%.
We continue to expect full year 2015 adjusted EBITDA margin of between 25.5% and 26% which would represent a 50 basis point to 100 basis point improvement compared to 2014 adjusted EBITDA margin of 25% using our revised definition that excludes net non-operating foreign currency gains and losses.
Depreciation and amortization in 2015 is expected to be between $68 million and $70 million.
Capital expenditures are anticipated to be between $32 million and $34 million which is consistent with our target range of 3% to 4% of revenue.
The 2015 core tax rate is currently estimated to be approximately 37% to 38%.
We are continuing to target that range and are pursuing specific plans to achieve that objective.
Of course the tax provision is also subject to a number of other uncertainties including the impact of foreign currency remeasurement gains or losses discrete items that are not currently recognizable under U.S.
GAAP and the global allocation of income across tax jurisdictions.
Incorporating all of these factors in 2015 we expect non-GAAP diluted earnings per share to range from $3.50 to $3.85.
While we do not provide quarterly guidance here are some thoughts on sequential trends to expect throughout the rest of the year.
As in prior years on a constant currency basis we expect sequential growth in revenue and earnings in each of the remaining quarters with larger gains in the second half of the year.
However on an actual currency basis meaningful progress will likely not come until the third quarter of the year.
Assuming rates stay at current levels the most significant year-over-year currency headwinds will be present in the second quarter.
This factor will probably mean low to mid single-digit sequential growth in adjusted revenue for the second quarter.
On the earning fronts the timing of product development and launch activities as well as sales and marketing expense ramps this year is concentrating more spend in the second and third quarters.
Accordingly you should expect flat to very low sequential growth in second quarter non-GAAP EPS versus this year's first quarter.
That concludes the financial summary.
I'll now turn the call back over to Tom to review our strategic priorities.
Thanks Rich.
Let me pick up my remarks on slide nine.
As I said at the outset of the call we are very excited about the opportunity ahead of us in 2015 and beyond.
During the first quarter we continued to lay the groundwork for sustained performance.
Our work focused on the five strategic priorities we discussed on our last earnings call which you can see listed on the page: first must-have insights into talent technology customers and risk; second powerful market touch points; third high-impact analytic and content platforms; fourth compelling careers for top talent; fifth a brand that signals unmatched impact.
Let me share some highlights from the quarter on each of these.
I'll start on slide 10 and discuss must-have insights into talent technology customers and risk.
Insights into the drivers of corporate performance are the foundation of our business.
Simply put great insight powers everything that we do.
Our entire company is driven by an innovative model that allows us to tap the collective experience and workflows of thousands of companies.
Through this process our teams can collect data and generate insights that transform corporate performance.
From these insights we can build tools and resources that enable managers to take action.
Ultimately our model enables executives to do all of this at a fraction of the cost of other sources of support yielding huge ROI for our members and clients.
As you know every year we start by scanning our massive customer base to understand the most pressing issues executives are facing.
This year is proving to offer up another rich trove of challenges and opportunities for which our deep data sets yield uniquely powerful insights.
In particular we are seeing that these issues are not only shared by the same function across companies but they are shared by executives across the C suite.
Recruiting managing and retaining scarce talent is the most obvious of these but recently our teams are seeing other repeating challenges.
Most notably as companies have gotten bigger they are wrestling with how to increase operating clock speed in the face of corporate complexity.
It's simply harder to get stuff done everywhere in the large company.
Just a few examples from our recent work.
Sales leaders see lengthening sales cycles and often smaller deals as everyone from procurement to data privacy to compliance gets involved in buying decisions.
Increasingly large collaborative work teams are creating headaches for recruiters trying to get hiring decisions.
And finally in IT gains from agile development have been more than offset by the costs of wide business partnering.
Our work is generating a broader C suite conversation.
You may have seen the Harvard Business Review feature story on the consensus sale which our team published in March.
To the right you see that an increasing number of buyers drive sales cycles up and deal size down.
Obviously cracking this code yields huge ROI for our members and our tool set helps them do just that.
Please turn to slide 11 for an update on our second priority: powerful market touch points.
We're working to bring a consistent unified presence to market by better aligning products services technologies and teams.
Our goal is to be easy to do business with even as our offering set continues to grow.
Obviously this is most important for our largest customers which as I mentioned in my opening remarks is an area of focus for us.
I'm pleased with our progress so far.
Beginning last year in a number of key markets we have aligned all sales and service teams under a single market leader.
Our Australia New Zealand business is an excellent example of how powerful this approach can be.
The individual customer ROI in getting this right is considerable.
We've already been able to broaden relationships with several of our largest Australian customers through stronger account planning and we see ample opportunity to keep doing this on the horizon.
And while not every market will lend itself to this structure we know we can benefit everywhere from better idea and lead flow across teams and are organizing against that objective.
The payoff will not only be strong growth in cross-sell but ever higher levels of member impact.
Please turn to slide 12 for an update on our third priority: high-impact analytic and content platforms.
We're always working to embed our insights deeply into the workflow of leaders and professionals in our five target functions.
One of our newest offerings targets a universal pain point for corporate leaders: putting the right people into leadership and management roles and giving them the skills to succeed.
This has actually gotten harder given some of the dynamics I outlined above around growing corporate complexity.
Our new CEB enterprise leadership solution blends our assessment technologies with our professional development tools to help executives scale selection placement and development of leaders across larger organizations.
We've already introduced this solution to our members and you can see our marketing materials for the offering on the right side of the slide.
Feedback so far has been very positive.
Please turn to slide 13 for an update our on our fourth priority: compelling careers for top talent.
Great people are critical to our continued success so we are always working to build a world-class CEB team.
As part of hiring developing and retaining great people we prioritize the development of a strong corporate culture.
Our data shows that appropriately reinforcing and transmitting culture is a real driver of corporate performance.
As we have discussed on other calls one unique aspect of CEB culture is our spirit of generosity and within that our broad programs for engaging our teams with our communities.
We challenged ourselves last year to some ambitious goals for community impact and in typical CEB style our staff rose to the occasion enthusiastically delivered on our targets and then surpassed them.
You can see the headline stats on the right-hand side of the slide.
During the year we helped more than 1 250 non-profit leaders grow the management and organizational capacity of their teams delivered nearly $2.5 million in social sector support and provided more than 38 000 volunteer hours.
The aim of these efforts is to combine our expertise and resources to solve real needs in the social sectors.
Beyond extending our zeal for ambitious goal-setting we also see real business returns from both amplifying our brand and helping our top performers develop new skills.
We're proud of our efforts here and copies of our 2014 Community Impact Report are available online.
Please turn to slide 14 for an update on our fifth priority: a brand that signals unmatched impact.
Our work here continues on the three fronts I discussed on our last call.
First making sure that our messaging enables our teams to present a clear consistent and compelling vision about the breadth of support we now offer.
To aid in this effort we are changing our Delaware corporation name to match our brand in the market and our ticker symbol.
As of May 15 our legal name will change from The Corporate Executive Board Company to CEB Inc.
This simple change will help ensure that all messaging and communications both from our teams and other external parties align to the core CEB brand.
Second building large-scale events to complement our more than 1 000 smaller senior-most networking forums.
Third building a reputation for thought leadership through Tier 1 PR and social media.
One highlight from Q1 which you can see on the right-hand side of the slide comes from China.
Human Capital magazine in partnership with Forbes recognized CEB with this year's customer satisfaction award.
This is the fourth consecutive year that CEB has been highlighted at the annual Best HR Service Providers in Greater China event.
Overall we're pleased with our progress on this priority.
All of these efforts boost selling effectiveness and pave the way for more effective cross-sell by giving members a clear sense of our reach breadth and impact.
So to summarize my remarks on slide 15 our first-quarter performance puts us in a position to achieve our revenue and profit goals for 2015.
However we remain focused on sharp execution to achieve all we set out to accomplish in the year.
We're continuing to execute on our enhanced capital return efforts while maintaining our strategic flexibility.
And most importantly we continue to lay the groundwork for sustained performance in 2015 and beyond.
We will now take your questions.
Thank you.
And we will take our first question from Tim McHugh from William Blair.
Hi yes.
Thanks.
Just want to I guess ask a little bit more Rich on the seasonality of the revenue.
I guess one can you – you gave us a number for currency impact for the year but can you help us more specifically what's the year-over-year impact for 2Q that you're expecting that kind of underlies those comments? And I guess separate from the currency impact are there other things that are driving you to expect a little bit more growth I guess at the top line in the back half of the year? I mean I think the currency impact – I don't have a quantification for you for the second quarter specifically other than to say that it's certainly going to be the biggest impact of the year.
I think you're still going to see certainly sequential growth in revenue going from first to second quarter but not in the same magnitude that you saw last year and that's principally going to be related to currencies.
I think as we look forward throughout the rest of the year in terms of how bookings developed in the first quarter how we ended the year last year how Contract Value is sitting as we look ahead and our plans for the rest of the year we see that all contributing along with some less headwind in the second half of the quarter to better revenue growth in the second half of the year.
Okay.
And deferred revenue can you elaborate a little bit more? One I guess the SHL piece of deferred revenue was down a fair amount which was a little puzzling to me but yet I guess another side CEB's – the legacy CEB deferred revenue looked even better than Contract Value growth so I guess what's the underlying story there? Yeah.
I mean I think the SHL deferred revenue certainly if you adjust for the currency impact it was certainly up on a year-over-year basis so that's really currency related.
Okay; that's fair.
And then just to be clear I missed a little bit of the call but the guidance other than currency is there any change I guess? Or I guess where within the old guidance is there a view where you would fall within that based on what you've seen so far this year? No.
I mean I think we're still operating on plan.
We still expect to land in that 8% to 11% constant-currency growth rate.
And the update to guidance was really driven by the change in currency outlook.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we'll go now to Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Is the first quarter the seasonally low quarter for SHL? I mean I'm just trying to look at history and with the investments it was hard to ferret out.
But would that typically be right? Yeah I mean in terms of revenue first and third quarter are typically lower than you see in second and fourth quarter.
And then certainly margins go along with that as well.
Inc.</span></strong> And so with a ex-FX 19% margin in the first quarter that seems to put you almost on track to exceed your – or you get pretty close to that 20% maybe even this year.
Do you think you're running a little bit ahead of the schedule on SHL margins? I think we're certainly pleased with the progress we're making.
I would say that we are on plan there.
I think it's too early to say that we're ahead of schedule but we're pleased with how we're tracking right now.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And just you delivered 27% EBITDA growth in the first quarter.
What was the FX headwind to that? Obviously there was a benefit on the margin SHL a detriment to the margin on CEB but then you had some overall revenue.
What would have been the constant-currency EBITDA growth rate? Well the constant-currency EBITDA margin consolidated would have been 24% versus the 19.8% last year.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
And we'll go now to Gary Bisbee with RBC Capital Markets.
Yeah thanks.
I appreciate the color on the next couple quarters.
But can you just give us an order of magnitude? I guess it's implied in your comments but how much cost was maybe shifted from this quarter to next quarter and the one after? Yeah I mean certainly you're looking at a minimum of kind of $4 million to $5 million that we saw shifting.
Okay all right.
And is there anything else going on in the revenue than just the FX? I mean it looks like to me just back of the envelope maybe FX is $5 million or so incremental headwind and yet your commentary seemed to suggest that it would be relative to the normal historical seasonality that it would be more of an impact than that in terms of slower growth Q1 to Q2.
No.
I mean I think there isn't really anything else.
I mean that's really the main driver I think.
Obviously we've highlighted the main currencies but there's a lot of different currencies in the mix here.
Okay.
The SHL growth I think was a little slower than some of us had thought even on a constant-currency basis.
But you made a comment I think it was Tom or one of you about the bookings being good and particularly adjusting some of that to subscription.
Could you just give us a sense how are bookings what are the drivers? You said Europe's growing worse than the rest of the world not surprisingly.
Is that a drag on SHL? Or is there anything else that put this at the low end of your longer term growth target for revenue? Thanks.
I think the big swing thought Gary is that we're a quarter into the year and we're tracking I think – SHL is definitely on track with our expectations for the business.
The goal of the investment cycle we went through was to get the business to a point where it can just reliably generate revenue growth in the target range at CEB caliber margins.
You can see from our guidance and our performance so far that we're on track to do both.
I think we're just a quarter in and I'd expect to see the business continue on that track.
We see great contribution of the business more broadly.
It's opening up opportunities for us in the CEB segment through some of the relationships.
So we're pleased.
As always there's color at the product and regional level but overall we think the business is doing quite well.
And I'd say on balance the European portion of that business is – my comments about Europe were more about the CEB segment than actually the SHL segment.
I think we're finding good opportunity in the SHL business in Europe.
Okay.
And then just one last one.
You made a comment that was sort of curious on M&amp;A you said in the next six quarters which seemed rather specific I guess.
Can you flesh that out a little bit or are there some things in the pipeline that are very far along and you're just in the final stages? And within that last year there was initially quite a bit of dilution when you did a couple of small deals.
Is that something that could happen again? Is that a thought within guidance? Would that be incremental? Just any other color you can provide on what drove you to make that comment on M&amp;A.
Thank you.
Yeah.
The six quarters was a little bit of not putting us on an annual shot clock in any conversation but saying there's stuff we're working on that we think could be promising.
Yeah as you know we've always seen M&amp;A as a complement to our intense focus on organic market development growth; that hasn't changed.
Most of the cool stuff we're doing will be organic.
We also keep our eye open for assets that might complement what we're doing with customers fuel new products or help us scale a market.
As to dilution versus accretion it really depends on what the goal of the acquisition is.
Something like Talent Neuron where we bought in in-process R&amp;D and rapidly accelerated a new product launch that would have otherwise been dilutive to the P&amp;L as an organic thing that may have a dilutive impact.
Other times we're buying businesses that have some scale and enjoying some synergies.
So it really is a case by case basis.
The issue recently has been valuations in some of the sectors we're in.
And we think there may be some opportunities out there.
And so on balance right now there's probably a little more opportunity ex-U.S.
than inside the U.S.
due to more rational valuations and also some currency help.
But nothing to announce today I just was trying to pick a timeline in between this year for sure and at some point in the future and six quarters struck me as a reasonable way to think about how we see the pipeline materializing.
Great.
Thanks.
And we'll go now to David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Sure.
Wanted to touch on SHL's competitive positioning.
When you're pitching or responding to an RFP are clients most frequently looking at sort of software-focused offerings or more on service-focused offerings? There's three big buckets of conversations you tend to have with clients.
One is you think about not doing anything at all which for the bulk of decisions people are making about talent is still the market share winner which is we make our own decisions we don't have any consistency and we don't have any analytic insight.
So that's the biggest one.
And then there is a choice between do I want a packaged technology delivered solution or do I want a custom arms and legs solution.
And it's horses for courses in those two.
Obviously we're big believers in the packaged technology delivered one but there are definitely clients who say gee I really want to go with something that's very unique to my company built from the ground up for who we are.
We're in a very strong position in the former where someone wants a technology packaged data-rich and highly benchmarkable solution.
We tend not to be as aggressive in competing for the latter where someone says I want to build my own thing that's unique only to me.
So the competitive position has those two dynamics.
Can we get them to apply the decision-making engines to more talent decisions is a really critical thing and that's not so much a competitor as just changing behaviors.
And then the second is within the decision can we convince them to be in a more of a packaged scalable technology delivered platform.
So does that suggest you have kind of a higher win rate when a CIO is in the room or leading the charge versus head of HR or...
We obviously love it when any of the business partners are in the room.
So when it's a head of sales saying I don't know what assessments are I just want to sell more stuff we're incredibly well-positioned due to our depth in those other sectors.
And we're incredibly well-positioned when someone says look we compete for talent with other companies we compete by role by skill so having our own solution that doesn't let us know how good our talent is by comparing it with other people when someone is thinking that way we have a very strong opportunity.
So both of those situations.
But I wouldn't just say the CIO the head of sales the CFO – someone who's trying to say "hey how do we connect talent decisions to business outcomes?" That's the most powerful conversation for us.
And then secondly when someone says "and how do I not do this in a box? How do I understand more broadly how our talent compares across sector across geography where we operate?" Those tend to be good conversations for us if those two factors are present.
Okay.
And then a quick numbers question for Rich.
Based on current FX rates do you have a sense for what the rough impact on adjusted EBITDA or EPS would be for full year 2015? In terms of what the headwind is to growth and those? Yes that would be...
Yeah.
I mean if you look at the margin itself I think the net impact on a full-year basis is probably going to be a slight headwind because of the fact that first of all the net offset to hedging – I'm sorry the natural cost hedge as well as some hedging activities on expenses as well as the fact that with lower revenue we get a little bit of a lift on the margin percentage.
So there's probably – what you saw in the first quarter overall in that kind of 30 basis point range could be a little bit more or less.
But that's probably a good marker.
As far as EPS I think you just take that and flow it through from the headwind on revenue and get to an EPS headwind calculation.
Okay.
And are those sort of rule of thumb numbers still fairly reasonable that you gave I think a quarter or two ago? On balance yes.
I mean they shift around a little bit as the currencies move in relation to each other as well as to the U.S.
dollar but at a 50 000-foot level I think they are reasonable markers still.
Okay.
So use those plus sort of gut check around plus or minus 30 basis points headwind? Yeah.
All right.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
And we'll take our next question from Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Hi.
Good morning gentlemen.
The first question I had and this might be tied to your commentary on M&amp;A but I think last quarter you guys sounded like a little bit more optimistic in terms of executing on your new buyback program.
And I don't know if I misheard but maybe either you had a set program in place.
So I was just wondering was there anything around timing that had the number lower than what the entire run rate would be? First off Manav I'd say that it's unconnected to the M&amp;A stuff.
The great thing about our business is we generate a lot of cash.
And so we have plenty of liquidity to execute on the enhanced capital return strategies that we talked about and be strategically active when we need to be.
So they're kind of disconnected.
The capital plan we laid out reflected our view of the business and gave us the flexibility to – it gave us the flexibility to be strategically active if we need to.
Yeah.
As we said at the time the plan breaks into two.
One a programmatic approach to make sure we're keeping share account flat.
And then a piece that we could use opportunistically when capital markets presented an opportunity for us to buy back shares at an attractive rate.
Our experience has been two-fold.
It's a rare year when you don't get some sort of hiccup in the markets that there isn't some piece of news come out of somewhere that sends stock prices down and we've seen that pretty consistently.
And when we've seen it we've had a pretty good track record of jumping in and buying and we want to have the capacity to do that when it happens.
Safe to say we didn't see anything on that order of magnitude in Q1 that caused us to act on the opportunistic piece but pretty much every year we've been around you've seen some opportunity to make headway on that.
It'd be great if it never happens and we have to find other ways to deploy that capital but we've seen the capital markets usually present us with opportunities.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then the other question I had was I don't know if there's anything to read to it but it looks like your total members added this quarter was one of the lowest in the last five or six.
Is there any oil impact? Or can you give us some color on just some of the trends behind the scenes? No.
I think -- Manav this is Rich -- I mean I think actually if you normalize for the lift we had by acquiring KnowledgeAdvisors last year I think it's actually pretty consistent with what we've seen historically.
So that was a helpful factor in that growth rate last year and now you're seeing a more normalized growth rate as we've anniversaried that acquisition.
Inc.</span></strong> And there's no real energy exposure to point out here? I mean as Tom referenced in his remarks we've got a small portion of our base that's exposed to that sector.
It's kind of less than 3%.
So there's on the margin obviously it created a little incremental headwind but it's not a material exposure to us.
It's a great opportunity for us to be in front as they're re-planning rethinking elements of their business a great opportunity for us to be of value.
So whereas even if it's not as near-term attractive from a growth perspective as other sectors it's hugely attractive to us from an opportunity to have impact.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Fair enough.
Thanks a lot guys.
And we'll go now to Ray Leong with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
It's Tobey Sommer at SunTrust.
I wanted to ask another question about M&amp;A if I could.
Are these larger opportunities or just maybe if you could size them? And I think – I guess you addressed how the enhanced strategy to return capital can dovetail into this but maybe a comment on the balance sheet and if you're happy with the way that's structured now in the context of potential M&amp;A.
Thanks.
I'd say -- I'll start with the first which is the balance sheet.
Where we are from a net leverage perspective where we are from an access to capital perspective and frankly most importantly the cash generating power of the business put us in a great position to do both which is execute on our enhanced capital return strategy and when we see an opportunity that can add value to our business and our members execute on it.
As we've said those things tend to be smaller.
If you sort of look at what we've done historically they tend to be things that complement an existing solution that we can integrate right in or give us access to a new market allow us to scale up a little bit.
They tend to be smaller things that are pretty tightly related to the product roadmaps we have in our core domains.
So I wouldn't put a size on that but I'd say as always they're pretty tightly tied to our product development road maps and fit neatly into what we're planning to do for our customers.
I'd also say that as always the story line on those things tends to be more organic development than inorganic.
But I just wanted to signal that we are in a position to be strategically active and we do see some opportunities and even in the world of valuations that sometimes confuse us for smaller companies there are some good businesses out there that we think over time might be good fits for CEB and can fit comfortably into our platform.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you Tom.
And curious about your perspective on the small tuck-ins that you have executed on in the last year or two.
Which ones are performing the best relative to your expectations heading into the deals? Thanks.
I think our hit rate's pretty good on these.
In many respects we're at our best when we are finding something that meets the need of a customer we're already talking to.
I'll just use Neuron as an example from last year.
We had heard again and again and again about workforce planning as a key issue almost a gap between the CFO and the head of HR where there is a missing piece in their business planning system that they were eager to make progress on.
So we had a super clear view of a felt need.
We had a variety of open conversations with customers and we were able to very quickly take a small but powerful asset wrap it with some CEB service and distribution capacity and showcase it to a much much larger market than an independent company would have been able to get to on its own.
So that'd be a great example of one way in which M&amp;A activity from a tuck-in basis creates value is taking something that is growing at a healthy rate but can only reach so many HR departments and exposing it very quickly to a broad array of HR organizations through both our sales channel and marketing channels.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
And we have no additional questions on the telephone at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Monahan for any additional or closing remarks.
Terrific.
Thank you.
And thanks to everybody again for calling and/or logging in.
I'll close the call by summarizing my earlier remarks.
We're off to a solid start in 2015.
Our first quarter performance puts us in a position to achieve our revenue and profit goals for 2015 on a constant currency basis.
Thanks for calling and logging in.
Rich and I look forward to keeping many of you up to date and seeing you live over the next few months.
We'll be at the JPMorgan event in May the Blair event in June and on the road a couple of times during the quarter.
I'll make one plug again for our annual Investor Day on June 18 at our Arlington Virginia offices.
As always this event is a unique opportunity to engage more deeply with our people and our leadership team see and touch our products firsthand and engage with our brand and how we bring it to market.
Thanks and we look forward to keeping you updated on the CEB story throughout 2015.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference and we do thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
And welcome to CEB's Second Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through August 6th by dialing (719) 457-0820.
The replay pass code is 9211973.
The replay will also be available beginning later today and through August 6th at the company's website.
To the extent any non-GAAP financial measures discussed in today's call you will also find a reconciliation of that measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated according to GAAP by going to the company's website and reviewing yesterday's news release.
You'll also find a PDF of the supporting materials that the company will use in its prepared remarks this morning by going to the company's website and following the link to the second quarter [2014] [ph] earnings conference call.
Please review the second page of these materials which includes important information about any forward-looking information included in the presentation.
This conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements among others regarding CEB's expected quarterly and annual financial performance for fiscal 2015 or beyond.
For this purpose any statements made during this call are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing discussions of forecast estimates targets plans beliefs expectations and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
You're hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by important factors among others set forth in CEB's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in the second quarter news release.
Consequently actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the conference over to the company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Tom Monahan.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks everyone for calling and/or logging in today.
We appreciate the opportunity to bring up to the speed on the continued impact growth and profitability of the business.
I'll kick off the call with some summary comments about our performance in the quarter.
Rich will then provide a more detailed discussion of our financial results and outlook for the remainder of the year.
I'll then close with a look at go-forward strategic priorities before we take your questions.
I'll begin my remarks on slide three.
In summary our performance at midyear was mixed but after some choppy Q2 we are back on track and well-positioned for a solid second half.
To good we saw real progress on scaling into our profit targets.
Materially and permanently improved our tax position and saw very strong advancement on hiring ramps in the quarter.
We also delivered on several of our major tech projects for the year and progress some smaller tuck-in acquisitions.
And of course we continue to implement our enhanced capital return strategy as outlined at the beginning of the year.
On the other hand some bookings slipped from the quarter due largely to two factors I discussed at Investor Day.
As a result that the midpoint of the year our overall bookings are tracking more towards the mid single-digit range than the double-digit range we have targeted for the full year.
The two reasons I discussed the first that I mentioned that we are seeing more competition for CEB caliber talent particularly in filling our entry-level sales and service rules while these folks don’t carry quotas they are hugely important in giving our top performers in the field leverage on service and selling activity.
And importantly they are the lifeblood of future talent for the organization.
The good news is that unlike quota bearing sales and account managers they have a very short ramped the productivity since they leaned in and immediately support our senior talent when facing off against customers and prospects.
We came out of Q1 with a gap here but we are optimistic that we could work to quickly fill these rules while working around any remaining staffing shortfalls but we weren’t able to get all the way there.
While our recruiting team did a heroic job working to close these gaps we won’t really have the full team on the fields until Q3.
This obviously affected our ability to grow at our target rate in the quarter.
The second challenge is a bit of a dark lighting inside of silver cloud.
The key enabler of our long-term growth is working to link our rich resources into compelling broad solutions for members and clients.
The good news is that our teams have been creative in customizing new larger offerings that bundle resources from our best practice and talent management in business areas to some of our biggest members.
The bad news is that given the scale and complexity of these opportunities we saw some large deals slipped in the quarter.
Given the strength of our existing team the scale of the opportunity in front of us and the great new hires we've been welcoming all summer.
I am highly confident that we will restore momentum in the second half.
Most of our teams still have their rise on their annual targets so we will be well set up for 2016 as well.
And importantly we fully expect to maintain our margin adjusted EPS and capital allocation plans for the year.
But given projected timing of bookings we lose revenue from the year.
Rich will talk a little bit more about how the shift in bookings timing flows through the rest of the year.
Before I hand the call to Rich let me offer some additional color in the quarter.
Due to a geographic wins the staffing gaps were concentrated primarily in North America so unsurprisingly we saw the greatest booking challenges in the quarter there.
By and larger our EMEA and Asia PAC teams have solid first half performance and appeared very well-positioned to continue their progress in the second half.
In particular our Australia and New Zealand team is making great progress across the business as they prove out the benefits of a more integrated sales and service approach.
In the CEB segment the staffing shortfall disproportionately affected our ability to generate new bookings.
In general we were bit short on the talent needed to engage new accounts and cross-sell into some segments of our product lines while price increases and renewal rates trended largely within historical patterns.
The other steps we have taken to accelerate hiring we continue to focus on how we align for growth at our largest customers and with our largest opportunities.
The SHL segment had a solid bookings quarter but with the continued transition to subscription revenue model there was a bit of a headwind on in-quarter revenues.
Overall we are also pleased with the continued progress on margin normalization.
More broadly we are seeing the progress we want on the margin front.
Rich will get into more detail here but the headline numbers are a mix of continued scaling and normalization and some timing shifts to match that in staffing and bookings.
The larger takeaway from the quarter is that we're on track to meet our margin targets.
Finally let me spend a moment on capital allocation.
Our strong cash position and solid bookings allows us to continue our higher levels of capital return and at the same time keep our eyes open for strategic opportunities.
We are pleased that through the first half we have already returned nearly $40 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks.
Late in Q2 and early in Q3 you also saw us take action on a couple of tuck-in assets to augment our product roadmap and position in key markets.
In summary we have made progress in some key areas but also have a couple of gaps and execution that caught up to us in the quarter.
Given the opportunity immediately in front of us and our expectations for the year we are holding ourselves to a high standard execution and focus as the year unfolds.
Let me now hand the call to Rich to discuss a detailed view of our financial performance and outlook for the year.
Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
Please turn to slide four for a summary recap of our financials.
Revenue was $232 million in the second quarter of 2015 an increase of 0.7% on a year-over-year basis adjusted margin was 25.9% compared to 24.2% in the second quarter of 2014 diluted earnings per share was $0.69 compared to a loss of $0.19 in the second quarter of 2014 and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was a $1.19 versus $0.81 in the comparable prior year quarter.
Now let’s turn to slide five and I'll review our key operating metrics for the quarter.
CEB segment contract value at June 30 was $667.6 million which is up 4.1% year-over-year.
On a constant currency basis contract value growth was 6.3%.
These growth rates reflect the slower bookings momentum that Tom referenced in his opening remarks.
Constant currency CEB segment Wallet retention rate was 96% versus 99% a year ago.
SHL Talent Measurement segment Wallet retention rate was 102% versus 104% last year.
We continue to view Wallet retention rates in the high 90s and low 100s as both normal and supportive of ongoing growth in the business.
Total CEB segment member institutions grew 3% to 6 983 in the second quarter reflecting continued growth in the CEB segment middle-market and large corporate memberships.
CEB segment contract value per member institution on a constant currency basis was $97.4 thousand at June 30 which is a 3.2% year-over-year increase reflecting the mix of middle market and large corporate members.
To illustrate this affect CEB segment contract value per institution was $146 000 for large corporate members and $30.8 thousand in middle-market representing annual increases of 1.1% and 4.9% respectively.
Please turn now to slide six and I'll review key segment highlights for the quarter.
CEB segment adjusted revenue was $181.8 million in the second quarter an increase of 2.7% versus the second quarter of 2014.
On a constant currency basis CEB segment adjusted revenue growth was 4.6%.
As compared to the prior year SHL Talent Measurement segment adjusted revenue declined 8.3% to $50.9 million in the second quarter but on a constant currency basis SHL Talent Measurement segment adjusted revenue growth was positive 1.4%.
Consolidated operating expenses declined on a year-over-year rate basis reflecting the impact of foreign exchange staff vacancies and other expense timing delays.
As compared to the second quarter of 2014 cost of services decreased $1.6 million member relations and marketing expense decreased $1.5 million and general and administrative cost decreased $1 million.
Interest income and other was a net expense of $5.4 million in the second quarter of 2015 as compared to net expense of $1.4 million in the second quarter of 2014 driven primarily by a larger net non-operating foreign currency loss.
As a reminder we remove the impact of net non-operating foreign currency gains and losses from our non-GAAP financial measures.
Interest expense in the second quarter was $4.8 million compared to $4.5 million in the second quarter of 2014.
As previously disclosed in June we completed a $250 million offering of new eight-year senior notes while simultaneously amending our credit facility.
The combination of the notes offering and the amended credit facility diversifies our capital structure increases liquidity and extends debt maturities.
While this transaction provides greater long-term certainty in a rising interest rate environment in the near-term we expect our annualized net interest expense to increase by approximately $3.5 million.
In addition we recorded $4.8 million of debt extinguishment costs in the second quarter which has been excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures.
In the CEB segment adjusted EBITDA margin in the quarter was 27.4% reflecting modest revenue gains paired with the favorable cost impact of slower staffing expense management and certain timing delays.
In this segment the favorable foreign currency impact on expenses offset the related revenue headwinds and provided a net 30 basis point boost to adjusted EBITDA margin.
Accordingly on a constant currency basis CEB segment adjusted EBITDA margin would have been 27.1% in the second quarter of 2015 versus 26.2% in the second quarter of 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA margin for the SHL Talent Measurement segment was 20.8%.
Margins in this segment continue to normalize as operating expense growth slows.
The impact of foreign exchange rates on operating profit reduced adjusted EBITDA margin by approximately 110 basis points in this segment.
And so on a constant currency basis SHL Talent Measurement segment adjusted EBITDA margin would have been approximately 21.9% in the second quarter of 2015 versus 17.5% in the second quarter of 2014.
Depreciation and amortization in the second quarter was $16.9 million a decrease of $1.5 million compared to the second quarter of 2014 due to the impact of foreign currency and the reduced amortization of PDRI intangibles.
The provision for income taxes was $700 000 in the second quarter and the effective tax rate was 2.9% versus the benefit of June 25.4% in the second quarter of 2014.
During the quarter we availed ourselves of certain government provided tax incentives.
And as a result we both generated one-time benefits and as Tom said permanently lowered our core tax rate going forward.
While the details of these initiatives can be complicated to explain let me share three high-level takeaways for your analytical purposes.
First our core tax rate for 2015 that is before this year’s one-time benefits is now expected to range between 35% and 37% as compared to 41% in 2014.
Second our effective tax rate for 2015 including the one-time benefits is expected to be between 30% and 32%.
And third our core tax rate for 2016 is currently expected to range from 34% to 36%.
Please turn to slide seven for balance sheet and cash flow highlights.
We remain in a healthy financial position with $124.1 million of cash at June 30.
Accounts receivable were $195.5 million and the current portion of deferred revenue was $441.6 million.
As compared to the prior year deferred revenue increased 3.1%.
And on a constant currency basis the deferred revenue growth rate moderated somewhat to 5.5% as a result of slower than planned second quarter bookings.
We ended the quarter with $493.3 million of debt on the balance sheet which is net of the related issuance costs and our ratio of net debt to trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA was approximately 1.4 times.
Additionally we have access to $239 million of undrawn availability under our revolver.
Cash flows from operations during the first six months of 2015 were $85.3 million a decrease of 5.4% compared to 2014 primarily driven by the timing of cash tax payments versus the prior year.
We expect this impact to normalize in the second half and that operating cash flow for the full year will be consistent with historical patterns.
Year-to-date we have spent $13.4 million on capital expenditures and we also used $5.8 million of cash to purchase Sunstone Analytics and have deployed $2.6 million against several cost method investments.
We continue to focus on cash distribution given the attractive margin and cash flow characteristics of our business.
And for the first six months of 2015 we paid $25.1 million in dividends and repurchased $12.6 million of stock consistent with the approach we outlined earlier this year.
Given the quality of our business models we continue to have ample liquidity both to return capital to shareholders via our enhanced dividend and share buyback while also remaining strategically active as great opportunities arise.
Please turn to slide eight and we will move onto our outlook.
The following comments are intended to fall under the Safe Harbor provisions outlined at the beginning of the call and reflect assumptions which are subject to change.
As Tom said at the beginning of today's call our teams are working hard to restore bookings momentum in the second half of the year.
However our first half bookings will have an impact on full year revenue and we are modifying our outlook accordingly.
We now expect our full year 2015 adjusted revenue to be between $935 million and $950 million and that the reduction in revenue from the deferred revenue fair value adjustment will be approximately $2 million.
So the GAAP revenue outlook is $933 million to $948 million.
We continue to expect full year 2015 adjusted EBITDA margin of between 25.5% and 26% which would represent a 50 to 100 basis point improvement compared to 2014 adjusted EBITDA margin of 25% using our revised definition that excludes net non-operating foreign currency gains and losses.
Depreciation and amortization in 2015 is expected to be between $68 million and $70 million and capital expenditures are now anticipated to be between $30 million and $32 million consistent with our target range of 3% to 4% of revenue.
As I mentioned just a few moments ago we currently expect the full year 2015 effective tax rate including one-time benefits to be between approximately 30% and 32%.
Of course the tax provision is subject to a number of other uncertainties including the impact of foreign currency remeasurement gains or losses discrete items that are not currently recognizable under US GAAP and the global allocation of income across tax jurisdictions.
Incorporating all of these factors in 2015 we now expect non-GAAP diluted earnings per share to range from $3.65 to $3.90.
Please note that our 2015 outlook also incorporates updated foreign currency exchange rates.
In particular the guidance assumes an average exchange rate of about $1.55 to British pound $1.11 to the euro and $0.78 to the Australian dollar.
As currencies continue to move throughout the year the impact of FX remains an important factor influencing where we land in our guidance ranges especially for revenue.
These topline exposures are somewhat mitigated by natural cost offsets and the degree to which our currency hedging program reduces a portion of the volatility that flows through the earnings.
Finally while we do not provide quarterly guidance here are some thoughts on sequential trends to expect throughout the rest of the year.
Assuming foreign currency rates remain relatively constant the combination of slower first half bookings in the CEB segment and typical seasonality in the SHL segment will likely mean flat to slightly higher sequential revenue in the third quarter.
Sequential revenue growth should then be stronger in the fourth quarter.
We expect the run rate impact of this year staffing activity will emerge more fully in the third quarter and continue into the fourth quarter.
When combined with the revenue ramp just described these expense trends are likely to produce sequential margin declines in the third quarter before improving again in the fourth quarter.
As just discussed given that the second quarter tax provision reflected several one-time impacts in addition to ongoing benefits our tax rate will be higher in the second half of the year.
Accordingly the combination of sequentially lower margin and a sequentially higher tax rate will mean that non-GAAP diluted earnings per share will show a meaningful sequential decline in the third quarter followed by solid sequential growth in the fourth quarter.
That concludes the financial summary.
I will now turn the call back over to Tom to review our strategic priorities.
Thanks Rich.
I will close the formal remarks with an update in our strategic priorities.
We made solid progress in a couple of priorities you see listed on the slide nine and obviously have work to do on others.
These are multiyear and multifaceted efforts so let me show a few highlights on each our focus in particular on market touch points and talent priorities.
I will start on slide 10 by discussing must have insights into talent technology customers and risk.
Our perennial goal is to develop powerful insights into the drivers of corporate performance and functional performance.
These insights are the foundation of our business and power everything we do.
During the first six months of the year we introduced a comprehensive slate of new insights in each of our domain areas.
Not surprisingly much of our work addressed the pressing challenge of recruiting managing and retaining scarce and highly skilled talent.
Importantly we also introduced new resources that allow executives to efficiently take action from our insights.
One great example which you can see on the right hand side of the slide is the CEB Ignition Diagnostic.
We highlighted this resource at our Investor Day which allows executives to benchmark performance for their function and provides the blueprint for executives to enhance their functional effectiveness.
In the second half of 2015 we will continue to share our insights with our vast executive network through our live and digital channels.
I will discuss our second priority powerful market touch points on slide 11.
The simple goal here is to be easy to do business with even as our offerings grow.
This is important area for us as we change how we work with our largest customers whose rapid growth with us has been one of the real drivers of our growth and is a key driver of our go forward strategy.
As I noted we have a lot of work to do make it easier for our members to take advantage of a much broader set of relevant resources.
Importantly we’re going to make sure that great teams in the field can more easily navigate internally so as to rapidly and efficiently bring the right resources to bear across increasingly complex customer relationships.
We have taken a number of near-term steps to simplify life for field teams including additional investments in supporting technology in our inbound service centers.
But from a frontline managers on up my management team and I need to stay very focused on making sure that our great account and sales teams have the proper support and freedom to spend their time doing what they do best directly engaging the market.
We are making progress everywhere but most notably in those key markets where we have aligned all sales and service activity under one key leader.
I have spoken previously about the entries week flow we’ve seen from this approach.
We see ample opportunity for member impact in the future.
Our Australia New Zealand business is perhaps the flagship for these efforts and we saw this translate into another solid quarter for that team.
This aligned approach also sets us up well as we increase our presence in that key market through the acquisition of Ceo Forum Group.
CEO Forum operates a membership-based executive network that exclusively targets senior-most executives in Australian operations of multinational companies.
This is a great example of a tuck-in deal that helps us build scale in the key geographic market.
There is very little overlap between our customer bases.
So we immediately expanded our installed member-based in Australia and now have an even larger platform for cross-sells of our product suite.
While we see real opportunity further growing our presence in the region through the acquisition CEO Forum won’t materially impact our financials this year.
This business has been around since the early 1990s and we've known and partnered with leadership team for a long time.
We are delighted to welcome them to the CEB family and are very excited about our growing presence in the Australia and New Zealand market.
Please turn slide 12 for an update on our third priority high-impact analytic and content platforms.
Our goal is to embed our insights into the workflow of the leaders and professionals we serve.
We will do that by providing our content and analytics through intuitive interfaces that allow executives to quickly get an answer and then take action.
We made important progress on numerous fronts in enhancing our technology platforms.
First we’ve continue the build out of our TalentCentral platform to service the next-generation interface for our assessment and talent management offerings.
So far we’ve migrated about 1 300 clients this year tracking ahead of our planned rollout.
Second we reached a major milestone in upgrading our member digital channels in our leadership counsels business.
We've introduced a platform that supports more tailor delivery of our content across multiple types of mobile and static devices and significantly enhances the functionality of all of our member websites.
In the near-term these enhancements have already increased frequency of use which leads to renewal and cross-selling opportunities.
More importantly this new content management capability will enable much more rapid revolution -- evolution of our online feature set.
And third we added new technology capabilities through our acquisition of Sunstone analytics.
Sunstone is an early-stage business that uses machine learning to instantly screen resumes and job applications as well as any other unstructured data for candidate attributes that correlate the business outcomes.
This big data capability further enhances our selection and assessment offerings.
I will provide an update on our fourth priority compelling careers for top talent on slide 13.
Simply put: attracting retaining and developing top talent is a fundamental enabler of CEB's growth strategy.
As I mentioned in my opening talent gaps in our entry level sales and service support roles directly impacted our bookings we met during the quarter.
While we continue to see strong talent metrics across the majority of roles of the firm we’ve been facing particularly strong competition for CEB caliber talent in these early career roles.
You can imagine that as the economy has improved the employment options for top tier recent university graduates have dramatically increased.
And while we've always prided ourselves on CEB being a great place to start a career we were little slow to make sure the overall recruiting value proposition and career experience kept pace with the needs of this key population.
We spotted this problem in time to adapt our strategy for the campus recruiting cycle and made some tweaks to compensation and role design that allowed us to compete more effectively.
As a result of our recruitment efforts we have the strongest and largest class of these folks in our entry-level commercial talent roles starting this summer.
But we were unable to close the earlier year gap inside the impact to first half bookings.
Even as we welcome this great new talent our work is just beginning.
It’s on me and my management team to not only ensure that we quickly ramped people to productivity but that we engaged in the mission and values of the company to lay the groundwork for successful runs at CEB.
It is early days as many of these classes are just starting.
But based on the caliber of talent I’m seeing we are well setup for both short-term impact and longer-term contribution.
Finally please turn to slide 14 for an impact on our fifth priority a brand that signals unmatched impact.
Our goals here stretch across multiple fronts the first of which is simplifying and clarifying our messages.
In the quarter we took an important step in updating our web and e-mail domains to cebglobal.com to better represent our corporate brand.
This is the powerful step as it helps us increase our brand power drives search engine optimizations and ultimately significantly enhances our lead generation efforts.
We also continue to build our reputation for thought leadership through a strong PR and social media program including feature mentions in the Wall Street Journal New York Times Washington Post and Forbes.
In the second half of 2015 we will continue these efforts and also host several large scale conferences that will gather and engage thousands of executives.
So to summarize my remarks on slide 15 we’ve made progress on some key areas but also have a couple of gaps in execution that caught up to us in the quarter.
Given the opportunity immediately in front of us and our expectations for the year we are holding our self to a high standard of execution and focus as the year unfolds.
We will now take your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first to Gary Bisbee with RBC Capital Markets.
I guess I look at the obvious one out of the way how do you have an Investor Day with 12 days less than the quarter and really don't allude to any of this and then we find out that bookings have really slowed that you missed revenue despite sounding responding to a question and saying you felt fine with where the street numbers were.
It’s a real head scratcher.
Hey Gary.
Looking back to the investor day materials we talked about topline shop on our ramps.
And the issue we pointed out as we talked about in investor day we saw some staffing chop.
We knew that was a real issue.
We are pretty clear about the challenges we faced but we also had 12 days left in the quarter and our teams were doing a great job of trying to work around those gaps and bring deals into the quarter.
And obviously on the deal front when deal slip they slip late.
So these were things we were hoping to pull into the quarter that we were not able do.
They select later in the year.
So where we were standing on that day we laid out at least the nature of the challenges but our teams are working very hard to get to our original set of commitments and just couldn’t get all the way there.
Okay.
And then just a question on each of the businesses.
So I hear you on the staffing at CEB but what happened at SHL? Why such weakness there in the organic or the constant currency growth and why such sharp deceleration? Most of that -- the staffing issue does creep up and hit them a little bit too because we recruit for that population as one company and some of the deals stuff hit them.
But most of that's just the ongoing transition to subscription based business where pieces of new business that used to come in as revenue now come in as bookings and get amortized and recognized over a longer period of time.
So that will create some here and there near-term headwinds.
We actually saw a solid bookings growth across the first half of the year in that business.
So we think we are pretty bolstered up into the future.
And we are obviously trying to moderate that a little bit but we have encouraged the team is to go out and build the subscription business.
So we want to be careful not to send the mix message onto the field.
I mean given the moving parts here can you quantify the bookings in the first half for the second quarter? Well I think if you look at kind of the way we reduced our guidance and that's essentially consistent with what the bookings shortfall was in the quarter.
I guess I’m referring specifically to SHL if it’s transitioned to subscription that's great.
You should have more visibility.
But I mean is that a 5% impact on growth? I guess I’m not -- I am troubling understand the magnitude? There is probably -- there is a couple of other factors as well.
One is -- first we started off with a relatively difficult compare in the quarter.
Second and probably more significantly the subscription trend that Tom was talking about.
And then there were a few things that slipped on that side notwithstanding that it was solid bookings at SHL and given that SHL'S overall revenue base has a slightly higher services component that’s going to have some impact as well if some of those things move from one quarter out later in the year.
Think about the team that's going to ready to get going on June 1st with something that's revenue that doesn't happen in the quarter.
Okay.
And then just one last one.
Can you give us an example to help us understand when you talked about the second issue with the bookings shortfall the complex solutions bundling solutions what’s an example of that just so we can understand exactly what you are referring to there? Thank you.
If you look back in the fourth quarter we talked about a major international bank that have blended where the CFO and their team had put together a package of best practices products assessment products and learning and development products to service multiyear platform for improving the performance of their finance organization.
That was an example to the good where we work with the customer put together a pretty complex set of our resources that lined up perfectly with the key business objective of there's.
We talked about that as a great example in the quarter.
Unsurprisingly customers are excited by trying to do that but that can be a longer process sometimes as different groups get involved and more decision-makers.
It's harder to push some of those things all the way across the finish line.
And that's our loss.
I don’t want to -- it is not a blame the customer thing.
It's a -- we see these opportunities.
We need to make it easier for our teams in the field to collaborate.
We need to make it easier for our teams in the field to get the resources they need to drive those larger opportunities to closure.
That’s me and my management team.
It’s a knowable set of customer behaviors where moving rapidly to better line up against.
Okay.
Thank you.
And next we will go to Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Just on a couple of these items the deal slippage.
Do you view it as kind of a learning process or do you think that you are going to have to discount more instead of getting into more complex deal where there is multiple solutions? And just in your own mind Tom as the CEO how long do you feel it will take to kind of work through it so that you have a handle on just in general how long it will take to get these larger deals across the finish line? Yeah.
Some of them just slipped from late June to early July.
So there is natural slippage of a contracting process.
More broadly it’s -- if you just look at the size of our largest customers and the size of the conversations we’re having with them and the number of people from our side who will engage with these customers we’ve got to make it easier for our team to line up and present the unified phase.
I think we’re making good progress on it.
But there is still work to do there.
So I think we’re making progress everyday and simplifying life for the great teams that face off against customers but there is work to do there.
It’s -- I think there is a little learning but it’s more just making -- I think we have our eyes on what we need to do and it’s making those tweaks without disrupting the natural flow of day-to-day sales activity out in the market place.
We don’t want it.
We don’t need to hit pause and rebuild.
We just need to make everyday a little bit better and easier for those teams.
I mean I think we have another companies that get a little bit more mature and then in order to get the next phase of growth they basically go after bigger contracts and things like that.
Do you view that as kind of what’s going on as the company is maturing and it makes more sense to be going after bigger contracts.
This is kind of the next phase that you just have to work to the bombs in migrating in that direction? It’s probably less us going after bigger contracts and more customers saying wow you can do more for us.
Let’s put some of this together with some of this.
The example that I just cited was a great example.
The customer saying look we want to get from point A to point B.
You guys have the roadmap the compass the water bottle we need.
Let’s not have conversations about -- separate conversations about the compass the roadmap and the water bottle let’s get it all together.
So where possible we always prioritize putting ourselves in the position to keep sales cycles short keep deal simple so that individual buyers can choose what they want.
But some customers are saying while I see a broader opportunity here we need to be in a position to respond and help them when they make that request.
Okay.
And then in terms of the junior sales people how hard of a fix is that? I mean do you -- is the compensation issue is it a messaging issue? And how confident are you that it really is an issue with junior people as oppose to some kind of change in the demand environment and maybe the senior people are kind of blaming it on them? No actually this is just math on our end which is we simply didn’t have enough of the right people to give our senior people leverage they needed.
And I’m pretty confident to fix because every Monday I’m meeting with the next starting class of folks that are coming in the front door.
So these are -- these start classes are hired in starting and they have been starting since the beginning of the summer.
So I’m pretty confident on both as the volume and caliber we have great people coming in the front door.
There is work to do from my management team and I in terms of making sure that they have great careers and are excited et cetera but that’s stuff you know how to do.
So I think we’re on the right stuff there.
I think basically what happens in those situations is you’ve senior people spending less time face to face with customers because they have to spend more time doing things that they normally get a little leverage on.
And that’s observable and so the sales pipeline metrics.
So you can actually look and say is this an issue of -- you can look at their activity level and say gosh they are not as levered on some of their core activities as they need to be.
So it’s observable in the pipeline metrics.
It’s most observable in some staffing metrics.
We feel pretty good about where we are now because these are booked and filled and hired people who are starting and we think we’ll have an immediate impact.
I met with everyone who started this summer in number of our offices.
And we’ve got some very high caliber people coming and not a moment too soon.
Does it change the cost profile of the business at all because you have to potentially pay for this kind of caliber talent something that you did not have to pay for a number of years ago or how should we think of that? Not materially.
I mean you’re always -- the phase we use internally is the employment value proposition.
It’s a term we help to follow the talks about with the whole package of things that you do to make a job great for a population you need to succeed.
In compensation certainly part of it and I think we’re competitive about comp but also making sure we’ve got great career paths great experiences great training and developments strong managers in place et cetera.
So we’ve -- I think done some real good work and we’ve obviously got more work to do as these people start.
We’ve done some real good work to make sure that our employment proposition for this population as a whole is quite strong.
Any economic impact fits well within our normal economic model.
All right.
Thank you.
I just want to leave off just repeating that one question.
You’re confident this is not a demand issue it’s really just a kind of bump in the road with these two issues you’re talking about? As we look at our metrics we look and say gosh we just didn’t have enough people to leverage our senior people.
There are things we need to do to help our best people be more successful but I think those are on how -- we didn’t hear anything in my customer travel suggest that there is demand environment change.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you so much.
And our next question today will come from Joseph Foresi with Janney.
Hi.
I wonder given obviously the bookings being lower than expected.
Could you break out that -- quantify for us what the impact was from staffing versus large contracts versus I guess the more complex deals.
Just numerically how do you think about where the impact came from from those three areas? The tail is up a little bit because I think if we had some of the large deal stuff was senior people without the leverage that kind of spend time with them.
But I would say on balance two thirds staffing one-third other factors as a big round number.
Okay.
And what do you think I mean you talked about what the growth rate is for the business how quickly this contract value come back and any thoughts on your expectations for what that contract value looks like one quarter from now two quarters from now and going forward? We haven’t seen anything in the market environment that longer term causes us to worry about the normalized 8% to 13% organic growth rate target.
And so our task is obviously don’t get to that revenue number unless you get to have bookings some contract value growth number.
So our task is to get back there as fast as we can.
Folks are starting this quarter.
We’re going to make them as productive as we can.
We’ll keep tweaking our system.
I think you’ll see some of the benefits from things we’re doing in Q3.
You will see more of them flow through in Q4.
And we very much got our ramping very well set up for 2016.
Okay.
And then the last one for me I mean I assume you’ve talked to your customers how the large contracts have got out pushed out had they already been signed or do you feel like there is further delay.
I’m just trying to separate what’s happening in the macro environment with a little bit of uncertainty and staffing large contract commentary when we start to see this tick down? Some of them just literally slipped from late June into early July because of last mile contracting issues and those came in.
Some revenue you get another onboard et cetera but it doesn’t seem to be very much -- one thing we didn’t hear from any client was oh my gosh budgets have changed in the last couple of days of June.
And therefore I’m worried about this going forward.
It was more often wait a minute because this involves this area of the business I need to pull one more person and make sure they are comfortable with the direction we’re going and those -- obviously we need to help our team surface those a little sooner.
So we can move them through a little more quickly.
But we didn’t hear a lot of budgets have changed or priorities have changed.
We heard a lot of one more step type stuff.
I’m going to squeeze one more in.
So no cancellations no changes in the regular revenue run rate no noise among pricing or anything like that? No nothing significant and as Tom said this is -- obviously there was some trough in this quarter.
We’re working to get things back on track as quickly as possible.
And over the long term our overall view in terms of the growth potential and the opportunity in front of us is still very much the same.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Timothy McHugh with William Blair.
Thank you.
I guess just to start on the staffing issue.
Was a turn over I apologize if I missed this -- but did turnover spike up or did you have trouble hiring or I mean how did it come about that you didn’t have enough junior people.
I would assume that’s a fairly consistent measure that you look at? Yeah.
Absolutely.
This is -- as you asked them -- this is really important to our business and really important how we grow the company.
So we’ve always find ourselves on being an employer of choice here due to other great turning programs all the rapid growth progression.
We saw attrition tick up within our normal target ranges and it kicked up at the time of year that is really hard to hire for this group of people in that -- the best performers in these roles are recent college graduates from great universities or great academic records et cetera and the wrong time to need them is early year because you’re just -- obviously the summer is the time when the great university hires coming into the business and mid years -- sorry beginning of the year is a tough tough time to do it.
So attrition kicked up within our target ranges and it happened at the time of the year when we just couldn’t offset that with hiring.
In good term it’s for the good we were able to get out and have a great hiring season on campus.
And therefore we have great strength in our new starts to the summer and our recruiting team did some creative things that really create some great classes that have started or will start at the next week or two.
Do you have a perspective on why their attrition picked up and approach to change that I guess? Yes.
So we call this our employee value proposition employment value proposition.
It ticked up for a pretty simple reason we invest a ton of energy in resource in training folks to be great commercial contributors to our business.
And unsurprisingly every now and then someone says hey rather than having my own sales training program.
Let me see if I can’t price someone lose out of CEBs because they’re fully trained and I have to spend money on that.
And so we saw some activity in the talent markets.
We talked about this as an investment day more competition for this type of talent in the marketplace.
And it caused us to think about roll design comp et cetera and we made some changes both the actual nature of the roll and the structure of the roll but also the experiences we’re giving people.
We think we have a very very very competitive carrier offer right now.
And we feel pretty good about the progress we made.
But it also hinges on my management team and I making sure we don’t lose sight of delivery on that.
And was the increased turnover just that the junior level or have you seen it all in the senior kind of sales people? It was almost exclusively that there is turnover everywhere in the business but well within historical ranges and strong performance everywhere but that population.
So the challenge was confined to that specific population within the business.
Okay.
And then just tie to that the client growth was that middle market or more in the large market did you saw that? Yeah.
If you go down to -- you saw a squint of the business and you say if you have a staffing shortfall in that population we talk about it affects probably most significantly our ability to go get new customers that’s the part of the business that most needs new staff to come in and help us kick open doors make the case for new companies.
And so unsurprisingly with that challenge upstream it was the new institution count downstream that becomes more of a challenge as teams in the field spend more time hunkering down on relationships they have worrying about retention worrying about cost selling et cetera.
And the new portion of what we do tends to come under bit of stress.
And when that happens middle market given where it is in its development it suffers the most right.
There are the group whose growth is still in the early stages of getting that first contract so yeah it was probably disproportionately middle market that as a result of the staffing issues wasn’t able to get in front of those many new executive at new companies as we’ve been able to do in previous quarters.
Okay and then lastly just to make sure I understand this right it sounds like it does.
The underlying comment you are making is that the pipeline as you look at it has grown consistent with what you thought and if you will the win rate when your senior sales people do fully pursue the activities they should do is the same as you have seen historically but they're not having enough at-bats because of the support? Is that the message you are trying to convey here? That’s exactly the message.
Okay.
Thanks.
And we’ll move on to Tobey Sommer with SunTrust.
Thanks.
Among the items that you are adjusting to enhance the career attractiveness to the junior folks.
Is higher compensation one of the elements and if so how does that influence your outlook for margin expansion? Thanks.
Yes.
The whole thing obviously compensation was a place we had to make some tweaks.
Assume that the tweaks we made or in the model and fit completely in the economic model of the company.
Yeah.
I mean you could think of that essentially as one of the investments that we make when we kind of balance between reinvesting in the business and expanding margins.
And so that will be one of the things that’s in the category of investments going forward.
You kind of mentioned in a recent response to question that some companies look at your great training programs okay maybe this is my on boarding ramp from my own folks.
Is there a particular employer or two that are specifically targeting junior folks at CEB? No.
In -- the funny good news is our recapture rate of these folks down the road is pretty good.
So the -- it turns out the grass is not often greener.
So we often get a second opportunity to welcome these folks back into the business.
So they go lots of different places.
We keep track of them.
We have a very active alumni program where we track on folks and get a chance to bring them back.
But there is not like a set of known competitors so much as we’re knowing to be a great place to develop that kind of talent and as a result we -- and we want to be known as a great place to develop that kind of talent.
We think the benefit of that across time is a good thing because you attract great talent and we are in a much better position to give people a great career run here that make sure they don't have any interest in things outside our four walls.
And kind of shifting gears off this topic the contract value per member for SMB type channel was up nicely almost mid single-digit I guess in constant currency? Could you describe kind of provide some color there in the outlook to try to sustain that rate of growth? Thanks.
Yeah.
I mean I think that’s obviously a factor of maintaining good [Technical Difficulty] in that base of our members.
Obviously price increases a factor there as well.
And as we've talked in the past sometimes the thing that moderates that contract value per member growth is that we have stronger new customer additions because they tend to come on subscribing to one product.
And so if that falls off a little bit you get a little bit more impact from kind of the renewal price increase and to some extent cross-sell aspects.
And my last question has to do with the on-boarding of the new junior folks new graduates.
Is the yield of people showing up for the first day of work the same as it has been or some people getting additional offers after they've accepted in kind of change in their minds? Thanks.
Yeah.
Very much as we expected.
I think our recruiting team has done a great job re-gearing our offer mobilizing and making sure these folks are coming to work excited.
And it’s -- and the relay baton and gets send it to my management team and I to make sure that from day one first we’re helping them be as productive as they can and secondly opening up the great career for them at CEB.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks.
Hey Rich I’m just trying to kind of square the circle on your third quarter guidance of revenues flat up slightly.
It sounds like it’s not demand issue either SHL or Legacy CEB? And you’ve got some of these contracts that slipped from June into July? I just don’t quite understand the guidance of revenues up slightly just because if all of that would seem like you’re going to get back towards that 8% to 13% medium-term growth pretty quickly? Should we just not expect that for the third quarter and are you just being a little bit -- giving yourself somewhere the room after sort of the 2Q mix? Thanks.
Yeah.
I mean I think it’s -- given where we are right now I mean I think it’s going to be tough for us to get into that range for this year to 8% to 13%.
I think that’s clearly what's implied by our guidance at this point is that we would given what’s happened in the second quarter the importance of -- in your revenue relative to the earlier in the year bookings is just that’s going to be tough.
And I think if you look at just the sequential aspect I mean you would normally expect in the SHL segment revenue is not going to be higher than the second quarter.
I mean that’s the normal sequential trend but you’ve seen in seasonality.
And given that second quarter bookings while we would expect some sequential improvement in CEB segment revenue it’s not likely to be as large as we otherwise would have expected.
Okay.
So there is nothing else in particular around the third quarter that's that to call out? No.
It’s just -- it’s really just mostly the math that results from kind of where we landed the second quarter.
Great.
And just a small one on the CEO Forum in Australia.
Is that now factored into your updated guidance? It is but it’s not material.
I mean as we indicated I think the run rate revenue was about $6 million for the period ending June 30th.
We’re going to have certainly less than a half a year of that revenue.
And so there will be some contribution but it's not going to be a material portion of the story.
Great.
And just what’s the margin profile of that even though it’s small? Yeah.
I mean it historically had margins that were sort of comparable to maybe a little bit below to CEB segment margins.
But this is -- we just closed and we’re certainly not providing full guidance on that part of the business right now.
Great.
Thank you.
And next we will go to Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Yeah.
Hi.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
The first question I had I was just trying to -- apologize if you are going to be repeating stuff but just for this quarter why is there the slowdown in new hiring impacting this quarter? Wouldn't the numbers for this quarter be done from hiring that you did in the past? In real simple terms these were bookings if you think about the Q3 number as driven by end of Q2 bookings and end of Q2 bookings where we needed them because we didn’t have the staff in place in Q2.
Those staff are here now.
They are either here or on the way here so our impact on Q3 bookings and Q4 bookings is obviously in the future.
But the staffing gap was in Q1 and Q2 which should mean your bookings totals switches Q3 revenue.
So can you -- like is there a way to quantify typically you would have expected x number of new hires and you only got y? I don’t think we‘ve talked much about that.
But you assume it was -- assume the staffing gap was in the North America in somewhere about 50 to 75 range of people which were here working with us when we just didn’t have.
Okay.
And then the second question I had was you talked about some of the bundling and the complexity of the offerings that caused some of this slippage but is that a new bundle my understanding was that these things you at SHL that was the strategy right? To bundle and cross-sell.
And was there like a different element of that or a different strategy something new this time that impacted that sales? No it was exactly that just more of it.
We’ve talked since the SHL acquisition about being deliberately cautious about how much we wanted to focus on just plain old selling what we do versus configuring and selling new opportunities.
We’ve been cautious on that dimension.
We pushed harder on that this year.
We said we are going to do that and unfortunate consequence was we were successful in getting customers interested.
The downside is that some complex deals got a little tangled up in process.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks guys.
[Operator Instructions] And we will return to Gary Bisbee with RBC Capital Markets.
Yes.
Hi.
Just a couple of follow-up ones.
Can you give us a sense in terms of dollars how much of cost didn't happen because of the staffing shortfall or will be pulled into the second half? And I guess that's salaries benefits to the people but also any recruiting cost that shifted.
How should we think about maybe how much you are over-earning from a margin perspective in the first half because of this staffing shortfall? Yeah.
I mean I think certainly we had a benefit on both the sales and marketing line as well as to some degree the cost of services line as we had both staffing shortfalls and then because we were focusing more on getting folks in place deferring some other initiatives until we were fully staffed.
I would say probably you are looking at a lift going from second to third quarter on the sales and marketing line that could be in the $5 million to $6 million range sequentially depending on how that ramps up and the timing of these star classes.
Okay.
And then that’s a new run rate thinking beyond the third quarter? I mean obviously that all factored in that will get a good -- given the timing time laid out that would a lot of the run rate would get into the third quarter but it wouldn't be a full quarter's worth.
So you could see another lift in the fourth quarter as well but much smaller.
And then can you quantify what was the one-time tax benefit versus the new lower tax rate I just multiply pretax income by what you talked about the new tax rate being and take it different or can you tell us exactly how much it was? Yes.
I mean I think you can do that.
I mean I think we have been targeting as we said on our last call 37% to 38% was the range we had for the full year.
And so now the core rate is in more like the 35% to 37% range so that’s kind of the delta there there is kind of ongoing benefit for the year and the rest of that would be the one-time benefits.
So I got to ask.
I guess I would acknowledge upfront definitely given your hard time in asking this but how they held you back out all the one point bad stuff but not backed out the one-time good stiff.
Is this the second time in the last three years there's been a tax benefit that you don't back out? I mean it just seems crazy because number one say you are up for a very tough comp next year.
Number two this is truly a one-time benefit right and it should not be in the adjusted earnings number.
Well I mean I think it’s part of the tax provision it’s not a discrete line item that you can point to like debt extinguishment costs or restructuring costs or anything like that.
I mean I think we’ve had some things move the other way in the past obviously not to that same magnitude whether it's being the impact of foreign exchange moving the other way or other discrete items.
And it’s just not in our practice to adjust for discrete items in the tax provision.
Okay.
I guess that’s the answer.
Thanks a lot.
You’re welcome.
And we do have a follow-up from Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Rich can you talk a little bit about how do think about free cash flow for the business for this year? Unusually there's a typically kind of drop-down metric that you used from net income what this was tax is there going to be a straight out cash tax items? Is that something that’s going to drop this year? Can we apply historical kind of drop-down metrics for the company this year and going forward? Yes.
I mean we still think that the ongoing ratio of roughly 1.4 to 1.5 times operating cash flow as a multiple of adjusted net income is the right way to look at it.
I think we certainly given the timing of cash taxes earlier in the year we’re expecting much less cash tax payments in the second half of the year.
So that will provide a benefit to cash flow in the second half of the year.
But generally speaking the ongoing profile in the years to come is in the same range.
Okay.
Thank you.
And next we will go to David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America.
Just a quick question on SHL how much of the transition to subscription revenue model how much of a drag is that either in the quarter or what you would expect for the full year? Well like as I said that was one of the factors that that impacted the quarter along with the tougher compare and also some of the slippage of the services revenue.
Is it trying to get to -- is this just more than $10 million or have a single million dollar impact on the transition of the revenue model? I think the best place to put it is just in terms of our overall guidance for the year.
We factored that in in terms of what we’re expecting for the rest of the year on a consolidated basis.
Got it.
All right.
Thank you.
And we have no further questions at this time.
I’ll turn things back over to Tom Monahan for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks everyone for joining us for today's call.
After some chop in Q2 we are well positioned for a solid second half and we look forward to being out on the road and keeping you updated in the CEB story.
In addition to being out on the road we’ll be at the BMO and Deutsche Bank events in September and will be in other places around the country keeping folks up-to-date on the CEB story.
Thanks very much.
And that will conclude today’s conference call.
Thank you everyone for your participation.
Thank you.
We'll take our first question from Tobey Sommer with SunTrust.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
I'm curious if within the quarter or maybe even in the month of October you saw gradual month-over-month improvement and impact in the bookings from the onboarding and flushing out of the lower ranks of the salesforce? Thanks.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Tobey.
As Rich said Q3 bookings were back-weighted.
And I don't think at this point we're entirely confident that that was entirely as a result of new staffing adds.
But obviously as these folks come in we're seeing sales pipelines build.
Though as I said we're not all the way to where I'd like to see them be.
Inc.</span></strong> And what has the historic lag been as you've had to ramp up sales folks to eventually see the financial impact in terms of newly generated sales? Because you did talk about how the macro climate is a little bit more challenging.
So I just want to get a sense for what it has been historically and then maybe handicap that for the environment today.
Thanks.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The financial impact in one sense is immediate in that they immediately cost money.
But in terms of driving sales pipelines remember we're talking about more the kind of key deputies to our senior sales people.
So their ramp to productivity is not the ramp that you'd see with putting a new lead account manager or new lead sales executive into the field.
That can be months and months and months as they build pipelines et cetera and it takes almost more than a year for someone to reach full productivity at the senior level.
More junior folks who are coming in and being supportive have an immediate if modest impact.
And then over time we find their ability to contribute to sales pipeline development is more on the order of months than years.
So we'd expect that – obviously we did a lot of the staffing in Q3 so modest impact in Q3.
We're seeing people ramp into their activity levels in Q4.
We hope they contribute to a good Q4 outcome.
We'd expect to see that value continue to drive into Q1 and Q2 next year.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Just two other questions for me for Rich.
Is the tax rate that may be lower next year is that going to be an enduring lower tax rate? And then for SHL the conversion to more of a subscription model should we see the top-line impact of that lessen over quarters or is that a multi-year thing? Thank you.
On the first part on the looking ahead to next year certainly we're working on additional initiatives to incrementally improve our tax rate from here.
I would not expect the magnitude of improvement we've seen this year in next year but I think we could see some incremental improvement in the tax rate next year.
And we'll give you more specificity when we get to the call in February.
In terms of the impact of the conversion of subscriptions at SHL I think that's going to be an ongoing impact.
Obviously the pace of conversion of subscriptions will influence that as well.
I would say it's one of the factors that's influencing overall growth in that business at this point but we're focused on continuing to drive the right level of bookings growth in that business which will be the more dominant factor overall as we move forward in SHL.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Thanks.
I just want to maybe revisit one of the earlier questions the question about bookings as being back-half weighted.
I recognize you're hesitant to say if it was exactly the new salespeople or not.
But I would imagine you have a feel whether it was the last day of the quarter and people scrambling to get bookings in or if the general business environment whether it was new salespeople or just some other factors that the pace of activity was better as you exited the quarter than what you started the quarter with.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Tim.
I think it's too early to say.
And I think we tend to watch what we can control which in order this year has first get great new people in place so that we're fully staffed then ramp them to productivity so we can see their impact on the front end of the sales pipeline.
I think we've done a good job on the first.
On the second we're still in the thick of things there and we're working hard to ramp people to productivity.
And sales pipelines have gotten better but they're not where we would like to see them be.
So we're still working hard to get people productive and see that immediate contribution on the pipeline activity.
I think it's too early to say.
The bookings were back-weighted in Q3.
I think it's too early to kind of tease apart the impact of new hires coming in and supporting us and the way the quarter played out.
Okay.
I guess in general when you say they're back-half weighted do you say that as a good thing or is that a bad thing that they were back-half weighted and you had to scramble at the end of the quarter to get the bookings? I'm not sure which way to take that statement.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think in big simple terms it just is a fact.
I don't know that it has a lot of content they were back-half weighted which you kind of expect always in Q3 due to the summer activities and due to the fact we were staffing.
I don't think they were more back-weighted that we would have guessed.
I don't know Rich do you have any comments beyond? No I mean I think clearly there was lot of noise in the quarter itself both in terms of the fact that we were hiring people onboarding them that we'd had kind of slower bookings growth coming out of the second quarter.
And so certainly we were happy to see some modest acceleration in overall growth as we came out of the third quarter.
And as Tom said we still are working hard to get the pipelines where they need to be not only for the fourth quarter but for 2016.
Okay.
And then the comment about margins in 2016 I guess being closer to the – the lower end of the long-term range.
You had talked before about getting SHL's margins into the low-20%s which is still a fair amount of distance from kind of the year-to-date of kind of 19% so I guess do you no longer expect that or are we expecting that the CEB segment margins could come down next year? I guess just trying to reconcile those.
No I think we still expect and think we're on track to get SHL margins into the low-20%s for the full-year of 2016.
I think it's a combination of just looking ahead and looking as we put our – finalize our plans for next year there may be some investments that we want to make in servicing initiatives in the kinds of things we do to reignite revenue growth.
And so that in combination with given where we are and what the profile of overall revenue growth is likely to look like next year just makes it harder to push towards the higher end of our long-term margin target.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It safe to say Tim that while we're excited about both the caliber and number of new people we hired you're not seeing their full impact show up in the P&amp;L in Q3 it will start to show up in Q4 and into Q1.
So that probably will limit the rate of margin expansion in the CEB segment.
Okay.
And then just – Rich on the tax rate the 32% to 34% is that kind of the – apologies if I missed it is that a number that can be there for 2016 and when you talk about improving your tax rate was it – or trying to improve it further? Is it relative to that 32% to 34% range? Yeah it's relative to the 32% to 34%.
I think we do see some opportunity to improve further from there.
I think we're still – there's a number of initiatives that are still very much in-flight as we speak and so I'd prefer to wait until we get to the February call before I give you more specificity on that.
Okay.
Thanks.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey thanks.
Sorry I missed some of the – the beginning of the call Rich.
But could you just talk about – it looks like from the guidance that the 3Q growth rate is sort of the trough and growth accelerates into the fourth quarter.
Is that the right read and is that what the guidance communicates? And then I've just got a quick follow-up on the EPS guidance.
Well I think assuming that FX rate stay where they are; I think certainly the FX impact in the fourth quarter year-over-year is less.
So that helps.
That eases the comparison as you look at the fourth quarter on a reported basis.
I think...
Inc.</span></strong> On a organic basis? On an organic reported – on a reported basis.
And so I think certainly we've got the range in place that reflects our current assumptions about where we expect bookings to come out for the full-year.
What the year-to-date bookings impact will be on fourth quarter revenue and the impact of FX as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
But I guess I'm focused more on the organic growth rate.
It does seem like you would imply going from roughly 4% toward 6%.
Does that sound right to you and just based on the updated revenue guidance? I think certainly in that range is – if that's what's implied by the range.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then just on the EPS guidance change ex-the change you would have raised EPS guidance by roughly $0.34.
Just correct me I think that's correct.
And then just kind of take us through why you would make the change is that – I'm just trying to think are you keeping EPS lower this year for some reason as you look out to next year? Or what was the impetus behind the change? Thanks.
Yeah I think the impetus is just really as we look at the magnitude of these discrete tax items which really non-recurring in the future and the idea philosophically behind non-GAAP EPS is to give you kind of a view as to what the recurring ongoing operating performance of the business looks like.
And so we just felt that – whereas in prior years you saw that that impact was maybe $0.05 or so one way or the other.
When you start moving up into $0.34 then it starts to be really significant and distorts the picture.
So we just felt it's more appropriate to pull that out going forward.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think the headline is the tax story is good news.
In some sense as you make long-term – make progress in the long-term permanent rate the efforts that you put in there yield some short-term benefits that shake out and actually obscure the longer-term progress we're making.
So we just want to separate those two things.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Hey Rich what was the incremental currency impact on 3Q versus expectations at the last call and also for the full-year versus expectations from the last call? So in the third quarter if rates had stayed as we had guided – as we're incorporating in our guidance at the end of the second quarter that was probably a little bit less than $1 million headwind that came about as a result of FX in the third quarter itself.
And then if you take that plus the incremental impact on the fourth quarter you're looking at about call it $4 million on the full-year guidance.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
So the difference between on the top end of the lowering – top end of the guidance went down $10 million so should we think $4 million for currency $6 million for bookings? You're just not coming in exactly the way that you would have liked? Yeah.
I mean a combination I mean you think – look part of it is as you get to the fourth quarter kind of the range of possibilities narrows and so there's a little bit of just kind of tightening up the range overall.
And then we have the FX impact we did have a little bit of the kind of back-end weighted of bookings does have some impact on – in particular on third quarter revenue.
And then just as we're looking ahead based on our updated forecast for bookings and revenue activation in the fourth quarter explains the rest of it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then hey Tom are clients relating concerns that they have that you feel should be concerning to you in terms of trying to sell to them? In other words some of the volatility and the risks that they see are people at all kind of slowing down their own purchasing of CEB product? III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah obviously we have a pretty unique view here just because we sample so broadly across geography function and industry.
We did see the tone of executive conversations change a bit as they digested.
There was some disappointing economic news for markets that are very real for some of our customers and there's some continued difficulty in some sectors.
You've seen this theme show up in Q3 earnings reports.
Obviously from our vantage point we're able to do a solid job connecting our resources to decisions on executive desks.
But where we see it is the types of decisions we're supporting people looking for fast payback ideas little more help in budgeting than they normally get.
We're going to – our job is to make sure that the resources we're highlighting and showcasing and building are pretty tightly linked to the types of concerns they're facing.
We also have to make sure that where front and center is they make key decisions.
You can imagine – we need to make sure we're making the right investments in servicing support so that people can be there to have those conversations and link them to resources.
We think on balance it's a big great opportunity to be of service and impact but we have to be executing our highest standard.
It's not all industry is not all sectors not all geographies but there's definite people looking at some more challenging markets than they had.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then Rich will the lower tax rate change the cash conversion metrics in other words you have pretty good cash conversion as we look at an accelerating booking scenario with lower tax rate.
Should we expect an improvement of the conversion? I wouldn't – the impact would be more just on kind of what you're looking at for overall kind of profitability and how that flows through to cash flow.
I wouldn't think it would have an impact on cash conversion in a material sense.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> If you go down say 500 basis points or so in your taxes why doesn't that just flow into cash from operations? Well again we're looking at – what we typically use as a rule of thumb is looking at operating cash flow as a multiple of adjusted net income being in the 1.4 times to 1.5 times range.
So to the extent you have better adjusted net income as a result of a lower tax rate then – and you apply that multiple through it then that helps.
But it doesn't necessarily change the multiple.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I see so you're seeing an impact to their earnings but it does not impact the conversion of earnings to free cash flow because it's reflected in the earnings? Right.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then what's the comp on EPS for 1Q and 2Q as we're looking out to next year? Because you gave us a full – year-to-date and you give us the third quarter but you didn't give us the breakdown of 1Q and 2Q the new EPS.
Yeah.
I mean effectively they were pretty flat in 1Q and 2Q.
I think the – there should be – in our presentation we should have added those into the appendix updated those schedules that can show that to you.
But essentially you had $0.06 in the third quarter $0.06 for the full-year and so there wasn't much impact in the first and second quarters.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Understand.
Wasn't there a $0.34 hit to the first part of the year with $0.11 in the third quarter? So you've got $0.23 should I spread that equally between 1Q and 2Q? That was in the second quarter sorry I misunderstood your question.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> I'm just trying to understand how I should – how should I understand the $0.23 of...
That was effectively all in the second quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
I jumped on a few minutes late Tom I missed most of your initial comments.
So apologies if you went into this.
But I've heard a lot of discussion about the sales head count shortfall and getting back on track there.
I didn't hear any mention of the other thing that you blamed a quarter ago for the weak bookings which was delayed closing of complex bundled deals.
It would have seemed that that was more likely to actually get done and get some of those over the goal line.
So can you give us an update on that? And if it hasn't happened why not? III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> As we discussed some of those deals legitimately slipped days and so closed early in Q3.
Others remained active when we moved into the quarter and others moved out to future horizons.
I don't think we saw a net material impact in Q3.
It's a small portion of our overall book of business.
I'd expect to see larger complex deals grow just as we bring together more and more of our selling activities and clients ask us to link products in new ways.
And as we've said there are some broader changes in the selling environment that mean that we and lots of other companies have to get better at managing complex processes.
But I don't think the effect in Q3 was net material one way or the other.
Okay.
So some of that business just doesn't get done? I guess the way I had understood you framing it a quarter ago was your CEB salesforce was unleashed to start getting some compensation or credit for selling SHL too or making introductions and so they did so.
But their CEB sales didn't close because SHL is a lot more complex process.
So did you lose some sales in the core business or did I not quite understand how you discussed it a quarter ago? III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think it's case by case.
There were certain situations where it slipped and we recaptured; there were certain situations where it slipped and we had to go back and rebuild support inside a customer and there are certain situations where we're still working to get it closed.
The scenario you outlined is correct that we have more people engaged in more types of broader cross-selling activities and that will have two effects.
One is open up some more opportunity across time and two create some situations where deals get stuck unless we get out ahead of them faster.
And we see that from our vantage point if you're sitting here with Rich now we see that it's our job to help people be successful there and not any wholesale change in how things operate.
And we're putting in place some management structures and making some tweaks to help people organize to help them be more successful and partner more effectively.
But I don't think it had a material impact one way or the other good or bad in Q3.
Okay.
And not surprisingly based on the bookings the CV per large member customer the year-over-year change there has flattened out.
But what if you looked more broadly and included some of the non-subscription offerings you've been layering in in the last few years whether it's add-on products or some of the leadership academies or other things? Are you growing more robustly? And I ask the question from the perspective of the four folks you had on your customer panel at your Investor Day all sounded like they were using a lot more stuff than they did several years ago.
And I'm trying to understand that dynamic and where that would show up and how that's impacting the growth you're driving.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll note that obviously the people at our Investor Day were not selected at random but they are broadly emblematic of a trend you've seen in the business over the last five years which is our larger customers growing a little faster than the overall corporate growth rate which has been a real focus of ours how do we put in place teams and products and people to take advantage of the huge opportunity at the high-end of our customer base.
I think they were emblematic of that broader trend.
This year where we've obviously had some challenges on staffing I think it's safe to say as we talked about when we're gapped on staffing it disproportionately affects our ability to generate new bookings either in the form of new institutions or cross-sells.
I think on balance more of that hits the new institutions new logos front.
But without question the gaps in staffing hurt the team's ability to cover our client well enough to kick open some new doors and create cross-sell opportunity.
So in the near-term the issues we've talked about have affected most of our key metrics on the bookings front.
More broadly that trend of our larger customers doing more business with us is one that we both have seen pretty consistently over time and would expect to see pretty consistently in the future.
Okay.
And then I understand why you're not including this potential acquisition in Canada in the numbers.
But I don't want to have a situation like the winter of 2014 where you did two deals didn't give us a lot of color and missed badly because you were front-loading some expenses et cetera.
So how should we think about if this does go through and gets shareholder approval and government approval et cetera what it would mean to the numbers? It looks like it's profitable but not dramatically so.
It looks like it's had good growth in a small but recurring subscription base of revenue.
Are you going to ramp costs to put this together with TalentNeuron? Or would you expect that we could layer in what they've been putting publicly and that would be a reasonable way to think about it again if you get the deal closed? Thanks.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean I think certainly over time it's going to be very complementary to the TalentNeuron business and will help both the growth profile and ultimately the profitability of that combined part of our business.
I think initially certainly there's obviously integration costs that we'll call out separately.
But I do think that we're likely to go in and put some additional resource in place to help make sure it's getting off to a good start and moving in the right direction.
So I think it's reasonable to assume that the profitability of that business would probably move sideways to a little bit down initially before ultimately contributing to better overall growth in the workplace planning part of our business.
So can you quantify what you might spend in the fourth quarter? I just don't want to be surprised.
Would a few million dollars be a likely investment before you start to generate the benefit later? III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think it'd probably be hard to spend that much money in the roughly six weeks or seven weeks that we will have had them on the books in 2015.
I would think 2015 impact would be less than that but we'll provide more color in terms of what to expect for 2016 as we put out our overall guidance for the year.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi this is Ryan filling in for Manav.
Just in terms of the – I guess the market you talk generally about maybe people getting a little bit more cautious and you talk about some of the hiring issues.
So I guess looking out a year from now what gives you confidence that things like the hiring issues won't be repeated and that the market won't disintegrate further? III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think I'd separate them pretty to say – I certainly don't know what the economy will look like a year from now.
I'd say that so far it's a tone issue.
You saw at Q3 earnings reports and there were definite signs of caution.
But it's more about people needing to make more specific choices about where to deploy limited amounts of resourcing.
And so actually we like that sort of environment if we can execute well when people are trying to decide between door number one and door number two where great and cheap resources and making good choices in their budgets et cetera.
The staffing issue is one we are incredibly focused on.
We – job one was getting great new people on the front door.
Job two was making them highly productive and engaged and opening up great paths for them within CEB.
And job three is making sure the strong team we've already got in place stays focused on the market in creating great outcomes.
So we see in many respects we see the economy want as a challenge of making sure that our product set and our servicing are really tuned to the needs of the market.
And on the staffing front it's about being very very focused on making sure that we continue to build on the momentum we've generated.
Inc.</span></strong> And just on that staffing is part of that going to be increased wages? We're obviously seeing a very competitive job market.
Is there any kind of margin impact to hiring and retaining the top talent? III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Assume it's accounted for in the guidance we've put out there.
Absolutely there are definite pockets of – our strong workforce planning products are being leaned on very heavily by our members who are looking for ways to manage pockets of wage pressure in their business.
We have some tools that help us do that.
But there are definite places where we had to be smart about making sure we match market on comp.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks.
And on the buybacks just in terms of pacing did some of that accelerated momentum in the quarter also take place into 4Q? And – or do you think it will kind of go back to more than $6 million a quarter trend you had in the first half of the year? Yeah I mean – I think we're we don't really comment specifically on kind in-quarter buyback activity.
I'd remind you that we put $100 million buyback authorization for a two-year period and I think that represented what our two-year intentions would be overall on the buyback.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Just had a follow-up the commentary Rich that you made about a preliminary sketch of 2016 trends is it fair to assume that that also does not include the closing and the pending acquisition? Yeah.
Although the pending acquisition is not going to be a huge needle mover on growth in 2016 just given the size and scale of it.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Our outlook Tobey is that it's pretty unique to CEB history.
We're tying that right up with a great asset we already have in the space that's doing great.
And so pretty quickly they will become one product line that we plan for and manage as an integrated part of what we do.
So it's not – it won't be – we've already – as we structure 2016 that will be seen really as part of our integrated workforce planning platform.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks everyone for joining for today's call.
We're obviously pleased with some of the early progress we've made on key priorities.
But as I said we've got a lot of work to do.
We have not restored sales pipelines to where they need to be and that's a real focus of ours right now as we work our way through one of our busiest selling seasons.
The core priorities we laid out are going to remain our core priorities of focus and we look forward to keeping you up-to-date on the CEB story in the final months of the year.
We'll be at the JPMorgan and SunTrust events in November and the Barclays event in December and Rich and I look forward to seeing many of you out on the road in our travels in the next few months.
Thanks very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to CEB's fourth quarter 2015 conference call.
Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through February 13 by dialing 719-457-0820.
The replay passcode is 7136894.
The replay will also be available beginning later today and through February 13 at the company's website.
To the extent any non-GAAP financial measures discussed in today's call you will also find a reconciliation of that measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated according to GAAP by going to the company's website and reviewing yesterday's news release.
You will also find a PDF of the supporting materials that the company will use in its prepared remarks this morning by going to the company's website at cebglobal.com and following the Investors link to the Q4 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Please review the second page of these materials which includes important information about any forward-looking information included in the presentation.
This conference call may also contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements among others regarding CEB's expected quarterly and annual financial performance for fiscal 2015 or beyond.
For this purpose any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing discussions of forecast estimates targets plans beliefs expectations and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
You're hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by important factors among others set forth in CEB's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its fourth quarter news release.
Consequently actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the conference over to the company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Tom Monahan.
Please go ahead sir.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Scott.
Thanks everyone for calling and/or logging in.
We appreciate the opportunity to bring you up to speed in the continued growth impact and profitability of our business.
I'll kick off the call with some summary comments about our performance in the fourth quarter and some thoughts on the year ahead.
Rich will then provide more detailed discussion of our financial results and outlook for the year.
I'll then close with a look at our strategic priorities before we take your questions.
I'll begin my remarks on slide three.
Overall we turned in mixed performance in 2015 but entered 2016 well positioned to create impact for our shareholders and deliver on the CEB formula for shareholder value.
Let me start my remarks with a look back at 2015 and how this has shaped our go-forward plan.
Obviously capital markets volatility continued and intensified in Q4 and into early Q1 reflecting general concerns about world economic growth and key developing markets.
And as in prior quarters several corporate sectors particularly in the energy and industrial goods sector continue to face real challenges.
Even as the economy gyrated a bit more in Q4 our performance in the quarter reflected the same themes that we had discussed for several quarters.
Let me call out six summary points from our 2015 performance.
First we generally saw solid renewal performance in most sectors and markets and strong new product launches.
However the front-end of our new and cross-sell pipeline entering Q4 simply weren't deep enough to grow bookings at our target rate for the year.
Also we saw some of the same caution that we discussed previously dampened down our new sales and premium services growth in particularly challenged sectors.
While we did confront caution in corporate budgets it's worth noting two things.
It's largely concentrated in the most challenged sectors oil and gas commodities heavy industry and packaged goods which together make up about 15% of our business.
And even in the most extreme sectors the world looks nothing like 2008 or even what the current equity markets would suggest.
Second from a geographic perspective the story remains largely the same from throughout the year as North America's staffing shortfall caused that business to be a drag on 2015 growth for the full year.
As the year progressed we did see modest incremental headwinds in Asia-Pac but I have confidence that we have an enormous near-term opportunity there and we certainly have a tremendous team in place to take advantage of it.
Third the CEB Talent Assessment segment formerly known as the SHL Talent Measurement segment generated continued growth in 2015 but was held back in North America by some of the same pipeline issues and corporate caution.
In a minute I'll discuss how we're evolving how we sell in North America and operate more like our One CEB markets and I'm looking forward to strong cross-selling as our new team structure takes hold.
I'm also very pleased by our continued success in converting this business to a pure-form recurring revenue subscription business.
For the first time we're reporting a contract value number for the business that gives you some sense of the overall book-to-revenue.
Fourth we sustained focus on strong margin performance expanding margins by more than 100 basis points.
We also paved the way for continued improvement as the business scales.
Although given last year's big jump this year's gains will be more modest.
The CEB Talent Assessment segment margin reached to low-20%s in 2015 with continued expansion in the plan for this year.
Equally important we significantly reduced our effective tax rate ensuring that more of every dollar of profit flows through to shareholders.
Fifth we maintained focus on great cash generation and careful deployment of capital to shareholders in growth objectives.
Across the year we were able to take advantage of capital market volatility to accelerate our enhanced capital return strategy and returned $110 million to shareholders via dividend and buyback across the year.
That said for technical reasons we were unable to take full advantage of the December slide in the stock.
As a result you can see that our 2016 capital return plan contemplates a more aggressive posture to take advantage of the buyback opportunity currently available to us and frankly to make up for the missed opportunity from late in the year.
Even as we returned capital to shareholders we still have the capacity to add great new businesses to the CEB platform.
After closing the CEO Forum Group and Sunstone acquisitions earlier in the year we closed the Wanted Technologies acquisition as a bolt-on to our fast-growing workforce planning product area.
Sixth and the most important after some challenges in the first part of the year we added great new CEB talent and are working hard to make them productive.
We enter 2016 with a great engaged CEB team on the field.
I look forward to seeing our collective impact grow across the coming year.
The net result of all these factors is a mixed record of 2015 performance.
To the bad our target revenue growth rate for 2016 is below our long-term range.
To the good this challenging economic and budgeting environment gives us ample opportunities to target and create immediate value for our clients.
Importantly we are in a great position to take advantage of this opportunity as we enter 2016 with a much stronger CEB team than we entered 2015 with.
Most importantly the core elements of the CEB value creation formula remain in place double-digit returns powered by strong adjusted EPS growth and sustained return of capital to shareholders.
We remain committed to delivering on this value to our investors.
Before I hand the call off to Rich let me share a few thoughts about the markets and executives we serve and how we plan to grow in 2016 and beyond.
We now support nearly 10 000 of the world's largest companies and have as broad an aperture as any firm can have.
And while we are not macroeconomic forecasters we likely have some unique insight into how macroeconomic factors shape corporate thinking.
On average the global economy continues to grind out slow growth but this average growth rate obscures some continuing challenges that are shaping corporate perspectives.
As mentioned commodities energy and sectors with substantial exposure to China are facing real challenges.
For the rest of the economy capital markets volatility more expensive capital and the fears of knock-on effects from developing markets are driving a cautious outlook that you see reflected in company comments this earnings season.
These conditions produced a set of challenges that repeatedly land on executive desks across our network.
First and most obviously companies are concerned about growth and optimizing their cost structure.
Second companies large and small are worried about their ability to act quickly in the face of economic complexity.
Factors ranging from complex risk management processes to more collaborative work environments are making it difficult for large companies to move quickly.
Finally we see executives across the enterprise worried about having the right talent in the right places to manage changes in customers technology and operations.
We believe that this environment offers huge opportunities for us as we have unique resources and talented people who can help these executives act with confidence against precisely these challenges.
But it also demands that we operate sharply to realize the full value of this opportunity.
We need to carefully balance support for clients-facing challenges with allocation of resources to the most promising growth opportunities.
While we made solid progress on many near-term priorities in Q4 our sales force shortfall carrying over from early in the year overshadowed progress in other areas and we're running hard in Q1 and Q2 to make up lost ground.
Now that we have a great team on the field the most important element of our work is to bring our great solutions together and link them to those problems sitting on member desks.
In doing this we'll apply lessons from those markets where we consolidated our CEB commercial operations under a single leader.
We learned that there is much more that we as a leadership team can do to make life easier for our teams in the field.
Three areas in particular stand out.
First as our product set has broadened and our support for clients continues to get deeper and deeper into their daily work our ability to efficiently contract for and manage complex relationships simply hasn't kept pace.
Right now the burden of solving this falls too heavily on our team in the field.
To fix this we are setting in motion overhaul of our internal IT systems and business processes to ensure that we're making lives simple for our sales force and for our customers.
We're calling this Program Atlas and Rich will share some more detail in a minute.
We've seen our peer companies do this when they have arrived at a similar level of size and complexity.
You can safely assume we are tapping them for advice and lessons learned and we look forward to arming our teams to have even more impact by being responsive to our clients in the years to come.
Second we are focusing ever more intensely on the power of a single brand that links all of our resources.
As an important part of this we're narrowing the focus and use of the SHL brand.
This change is in keeping with our overall master brand strategy and is aligned with an ongoing investment to ensure that CEB is perceived as a talent management powerhouse worldwide.
As a result SHL Talent Measurement products and services will now be referred to as CEB Talent Assessment.
This will have implications for the amortization of the SHL trade name intangible asset which Rich will discuss.
Our customers are frankly ahead of us on this one.
We look forward to catching up with them.
Finally inspired by the success we've seen in our One CEB markets we are continuing to integrate our sales activities closer to the customer in North America investing more heavily in customer support across the board.
I'll discuss this in more detail below but it should set us up for enhanced cross-sell and deeper presence in our strongest buying centers.
Given the strength of our team the scale of the opportunity in front of us and clarity about our near-term areas of focus we see huge potential for profitability and growth in the quarters and years ahead.
We've demonstrated the ability of CEB to consistently focus on and deliver the levers of shareholder value creation and I look forward to doing this in 2016 and beyond.
Let me turn the call over to Rich for a more detailed look back at 2015 and forward into 2016.
Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
Please turn to slide four for a summary recap of our financials.
Revenue was $242.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 an increase of 1.2% on a year-over-year basis.
Adjusted EBITDA margin was 27.4% compared to 29.3% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Diluted earnings per share was $0.55 compared to $0.84 in the fourth quarter of 2014.
And non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $1.10 versus $1.11 in the comparable prior-year quarter.
Now let's turn to slide five and I'll review our key operating metrics for the quarter.
Please note that in connection with the next leg of our corporate branding strategy we have renamed the former SHL Talent Measurement segment to be CEB Talent Assessment.
CEB segment contract value at December 31 was $708.3 million which is up 3.6% year over year.
On a constant currency basis contract value growth was 4.9%.
Constant currency CEB segment wallet retention rate was 93% versus 99% a year ago.
And CEB Talent Assessment segment wallet retention rate was 98% versus 103% last year.
In our press release you will note that we introduced CEB Talent Assessment segment contract value which was $109.8 million at December 31 2015.
This metric represents the aggregate annualized revenue attributed to all subscription agreements for online product access plus the aggregate annual revenue attributed to all advanced purchases of online testing units.
Accordingly it does not include the value of professional services in-arrears usage or other items that comprise total revenue in that segment.
We will report this metric on a go-forward basis which will enable investors to track the growth in the most highly recurring portion of CEB Talent Assessment revenue.
Total CEB segment member institutions grew 4% to 7 340 in the fourth quarter reflecting continued growth in the CEB segment middle market and large corporate memberships.
CEB segment contract value per member institution on a constant currency basis was $95 400 at December 31.
CEB segment contract value per institution on a constant currency basis was $135 900 for large corporate members and $30 900 in middle market.
I would note that there is some noise in these metrics due to the inclusion of recent acquisitions.
Excluding the impact of CEO Forum and Wanted Technologies CEB segment institutions grew by 0.4% and CEB segment constant currency contract value per large corporate member was $147 600.
Please turn to slide six and I'll review key segment highlights for the quarter.
Total company adjusted revenue was $244.8 million in the quarter an increase of 1.5% compared to the prior year.
On a constant currency basis total company adjusted revenue grew by 4.5%.
CEB segment adjusted revenue was $193.6 million in the fourth quarter an increase of 3.5% versus the fourth quarter of 2014.
And on a constant currency basis CEB segment adjusted revenue growth was 5.1%.
As compared to the prior year CEB Talent Assessment segment adjusted revenue declined 5.3% to $51.2 million in the fourth quarter.
But on a constant currency basis CEB Talent Assessment segment adjusted revenue growth was 2.6%.
Consolidated operating expenses increased $8.5 million on a year-over-year basis reflecting the impact of increased head count acquisitions and other expense timing items.
As compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 cost of services increased $4.1 million.
Member relations and marketing increased $2 million and general and administrative costs increased $2.5 million.
In the CEB segment adjusted EBITDA margin in the quarter was 28.7%.
This outcome was influenced by the run rate impact of the significant hiring activity we discussed in the third quarter.
In this segment the favorable foreign currency impact on expenses substantially offset the related revenue headwinds and provided a net 30 basis point boost to adjusted EBITDA margin.
Accordingly on a constant currency basis CEB segment adjusted EBITDA margin would have been 28.4% in the fourth quarter of 2015 versus 32.1% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA margin for the CEB Talent Assessment segment was 22.8% reflecting continued scaling of that part of our business.
The impact of foreign exchange rates on operating profit reduced adjusted EBITDA margin by approximately 140 basis points in this segment.
And so on a constant currency basis CEB Talent Assessment segment adjusted EBITDA margin would have been approximately 24.2% in the fourth quarter of 2015 versus 19.6% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Depreciation and amortization in the fourth quarter was $24.7 million an increase of $8 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
Effective October 1st 2015 as a result of our decision to narrow and focus the use of the SHL brand we reduced the accounting useful life of the SHL trade name.
This action increased intangible amortization by $8 million in the fourth quarter and amortization of this intangible asset will now be completed by December 31st 2016.
During the fourth quarter we incurred $2.5 million of acquisition-related costs and took a restructuring charge of $5.1 million.
As Tom mentioned we made some changes in our market structure initiated other actions to streamline operations and rebalanced the management mix in certain areas.
Note that due to the timing of some of these moves we anticipate another $1 million to $2 million will be incurred in the first quarter.
Interest income and other was $252 000 in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to income of $6.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 driven primarily by a swing from a net foreign currency gain to a net foreign currency loss.
As a remainder we removed the impact of net non-operating foreign currency gains and losses from our non-GAAP financial measures.
Interest expense in the fourth quarter of 2015 was $5.7 million compared to $4.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The provision for income taxes was $3.2 million in the fourth quarter and the effective tax rate was 14.9% versus 40.5% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Activity in the fourth quarter brought our 2015 adjusted effective tax rate to 33.9% which is nearly 400 basis points lower than the rate in 2014.
Please turn to slide seven for balance sheet and cash flow highlights.
At December 31 we had $113.3 million of cash accounts receivable was $285 million and the current portion of deferred revenue was $449.7 million.
As compared to December 31st 2014 deferred revenue decreased 0.7%.
But on a constant currency basis the deferred revenue growth rate was 1.4%.
We ended the quarter with $561.4 million of debt on the balance sheet net of related issuance costs and our ratio of net debt to trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA was approximately 1.8 times.
Additionally we had access to approximately $169 million of undrawn availability under our revolver as of December 31st.
Cash flows from operations for the full year of 2015 were $148.3 million a decrease of 18.6% compared to 2014 primarily driven by the timing of cash tax payments versus the prior year the full year impact of slower bookings growth and other timing items.
During 2015 we spent $22.8 million on capital expenditures and we also used $61.9 million of cash on business acquisitions and cost method investments.
We continue to execute on our enhanced cash distribution strategy throughout the year.
In 2015 we paid $50 million in dividends and allocated $60 million to repurchase 816 000 shares of our stock.
This activity is consistent with the approach we outlined which seeks to both offset ongoing share dilution and respond opportunistically during periods of stock market volatility.
Given the quality of our business models we have ample liquidity to return capital to shareholders and also remain strategically active as great opportunities arise.
Please turn to slide eight and we'll move on to our outlook.
Following comments are intended to fall under the Safe Harbor provisions outlined at the beginning of the call and reflect assumptions which are subject to change.
I'll start by noting that our 2016 outlook incorporates foreign currency exchange rates as of January 1st consistent with our normal practice of linking our guidance to the FX rates in place at the beginning of a quarter.
In particular the following guidance assumes an average exchange rate of $1.48 to the British pound $1.09 to the euro and $0.73 to the Australian dollar.
As compared to the average rates during 2015 these FX rates dampened 2016 topline growth by about 100 basis points.
We currently expect our full-year 2016 adjusted revenue to be between $947 million and $977 million.
And as a reduction in revenue from the deferred revenue fair value adjustment will be approximately $2 million so the GAAP revenue outlook is between $945 million and $975 million.
As compared to 2015 these outcomes implied full year constant currency growth of 3% to 6%.
We expect full year 2016 adjusted EBITDA margin to be at least 26% or effectively flat to slightly better than 2015.
We entered the year fully staffed and focused on building pipelines and executing other initiatives to drive better bookings growth as the year progresses.
Accordingly the cost comparison will be more challenging especially in the early part of this year and margin expansion will be mostly correlated to revenue growth in 2016.
Depreciation and amortization in 2016 is expected to be between $99 million and $101 million with approximately $30 million of this amount resulting from the change to the SHL trade name useful life that I just discussed.
Capital expenditures are anticipated to be between $33 million and $35 million which is in line with our target range of 3% to 4% of revenue.
We currently expect the full year 2016 adjusted effective tax rate to be approximately 32% to 34%.
Of course the adjusted effective tax rate is subject to a number of uncertainties including the global allocation of income across tax jurisdictions tax law changes and other discrete items.
Incorporating all of these factors for 2016 we expect non-GAAP diluted earnings per share to range from $3.80 to $4.10.
In his opening remarks Tom referenced a very important new initiative we have launched called Program Atlas which will be our platform to support business growth and drive business process simplification and standardization.
This multi-year effort will transform our operations and give us greater agility as our business grows in size and complexity.
Once implemented Atlas will help our market-facing teams respond faster to customer needs while also driving greater flexibility and efficiency through our cost structure.
At its core the program scope includes integration of our cloud-based CRM and ERP systems to enable a single global platform for contracting order management billing and other financial processes.
Under new accounting rules in effect as of January 1 2016 the vast majority of cost related to the development and implementation of cloud-based computing systems now have to be recognized in current period expense as they are incurred instead of being capitalized and depreciated over time.
Before this year when other companies have undertaken these projects they have recognized most of the related costs through capital expenditures and depreciation.
Accordingly to facilitate a more apples-to-apples comparison of our ongoing business operations beginning this year we will report Program Atlas operating expense separately on our income statement and exclude those costs from our non-GAAP measures.
In addition to our full year outlook we are also providing an estimate of first quarter activity.
Our current forecast anticipates revenue of at least $227 million adjusted EBITDA margin of at least 23% and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of at least $0.75.
These estimates reflect the typical seasonal patterns you've seen previously in our business with additional cost growth due to the hiring flow-through.
We would expect sequential improvements in all of these elements as the year progresses.
Finally I'll comment on capital allocation.
Our balance sheet remains very strong and we ended 2015 with a net leverage ratio that's within our target range.
As a result even as we retain the flexibility to make strategic investments in our future growth we also are able to further enhance shareholder value with capital returns.
We continue to emphasize the dividend as it highlights the earnings and cash flow characteristics of our economic model.
Our first quarter dividend of $0.4125 per share represents a 10% increase compared to 2015 which is just ahead of the adjusted net income growth implied by our 2016 outlook.
Finally as you saw in the press release our board also approved a new $150 million share repurchase authorization through December 31st 2017.
When combined with the $40 million remaining on our previous authorization we now have a total of $190 million available to buy back stock.
At a minimum we plan to continue with a programmatic approach to share buybacks that would target at least $100 million of purchases this year.
Beyond that this larger total buyback authorization also gives us the flexibility if appropriate to move more opportunistically in response to market conditions throughout the year.
Management will continue to use its best judgment to determine the amount and timing of these purchases going forward.
That concludes the financial summary.
I'll now turn the call back over to Tom to review our strategic priorities.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Rich.
I'll pick up my remarks on slide nine with a look at our priorities for 2016.
As I shared in my opening we're well positioned for success.
The company is designed to solve the most enduring problems facing corporate leaders: what is worth doing how should I do it and who do I need to do it well.
And we believe that the current global environment amplifies the opportunity ahead of us as we have unique resources and talented people ready to help companies navigate a suddenly more complex set of strategic and operational issues.
We enter 2016 well-positioned to make an impact on our members and clients and are focused on five priorities to realize the full value of the opportunity before us.
You can see these priorities summarized on the slide: First delivering must-have insights and analytics; second cultivating highly valued relationships; third achieving brand and market leadership; fourth building compelling careers; fifth agility and operational excellence.
Let me briefly share detail on all of these and add a bit more color on a couple.
I'll start with must-have insights and analytics.
We never lose sight of the revolutionary idea at the center of our businesses.
By tapping the collective experience and workflows of thousands of companies we build valuable data assets and generate insights that transform performance; and then build tools and resources that enable managers to take action.
Ultimately our model enables corporate leaders to do all of this in a fraction of the cost of other sources of support which yields huge ROI.
In a world where clients are facing volatility in very varied opportunities across markets this model has the potential to create significant value.
We can help them allocate and reallocate budgets as conditions change optimize operations to get the most impact from every dollar and most importantly get the right teams in place and help them thrive.
And we can do this in a way that doesn't force them to trade up speed of decision for quality of decision or as we like to say help them to be fast and right.
Our second priority is cultivating highly valued relationships.
We're privileged to serve an unmatched array of the world's great companies; CXO leaders at nearly 10 000 organizations including nearly 90% of the Fortune 500.
We create tremendous value for these individuals when we connect our data IP and solutions with the very real and very pressing problems on their desks.
Let me spend a moment on this one.
As I alluded to before our business across the whole enterprise but particularly in the talent management and sales management areas has gotten considerably more complex across the desk.
On one hand this means that we are supporting more people more frequently and in more ways than we ever have.
And the potential to keep growing an impact in revenue is vast.
On the other hand making it little too hard for our clients and our teams to link the solutions and grow our impact.
Fixing this begins with the branding work we've discussed and can be supported by the systems and business process work now underway.
But as important as our technology and tools are our business has always required great people to diagnose member problems and bring our solutions to life.
We took an important first step in 2015 to help our people drive impact and growth by consolidating our sales service and advisory teams under single leaders in a number of non-North American markets.
We'll continue this work in earnest in 2016 through a several-pronged effort.
First we are investing globally in the tools people and processes needed to keep building customer royalty.
We are scaling up account management clients support and advisory resources and arming them with new tools to drive impact.
And in our largest buying centers most notably HR and sales management we are organizing teams ever closer to the customer to ensure agile response to member needs and ramped-up cross-selling.
Finally we'll be investing heavily to support our teams' efforts to build out a front-end to the pipeline.
Expect to see continued big step-ups in our summits and events business and tactical marketing activities to drive lead flow.
I can't wait to see the influence our teams will have as you make it ever easier for them to broaden impact.
Our third priority is achieving brand and market leadership.
Building a brand that matches our impact is critical to our business.
Doing so not only creates direct demand for our offerings but it also supports corporate leaders as they bring our solutions into executive suites and board rooms.
We obviously can't be all things for all people so our work in 2016 is focused on ensuring that CEB has an unmatched reputation in the vital few areas where we are targeting market leadership.
Our next priority is building compelling careers.
Simply put talent is CEB's greatest assets.
Investments in our people are investments in meaningful outcomes for our members.
We talked a lot about the difference having a great team on the field makes on our performance.
As I said in my opening I'm very excited about the team we have in place globally entering 2016.
In big round numbers we've grown overall commercial capacity of little more than 10% year-on-year.
This is obviously in comparison with a shortfall from this time last year but puts us in a materially better place to drive impact to the clients and open new doors.
I've been consistently impressed with the caliber of people we've added and our shared commitment to making them successful at CEB and early signs have been positive.
Our job across this will be to support them as they mobilize and service to our members and clients and to help them see and feel the benefits of building a long-term career at CEB.
More broadly we're very focused on ensuring that CEB remains an employer of the choice for people with all our critical skills analysis advice and education sales marketing and relationship management and technology and data management.
Our final priority is agility and operational excellence.
For those who follow our public thought leadership you'll know that we have measured a steady increase in the time that it takes for our clients to do even the most basic corporate activities from hiring to performance management.
It's widespread and important enough that we've been talking about this in a variety of public forums including a piece in this week's Fortune that I authored.
We know that we not only need to provide the insights and tools for our members to move faster but that we ourselves need to lead from the front of the organization here.
Accordingly we are making sure that our processes and structures allow us to respond quickly to opportunities and risks as markets evolve so that we can continue to deliver CEB-caliber returns for years to come.
So to summarize my remarks on slide 10 we believe that the current environment offers huge opportunity for us as we have unique resources and talented people ready to help companies navigate a suddenly more complex set of strategic and operational issues.
We enter 2016 well-positioned to make an impact on our members and clients.
Importantly we also have a strong formula in place for creating shareholder value solid double-digit returns powered by strong adjusted EPS growth and sustained return of capital to shareholders.
We'll now take your questions.
We'll take our first question from Joseph Foresi from Cantor Fitzgerald.
Hi guys.
This is Mike Reid on for Joe.
Thanks for taking the question.
I think you talked about it a little bit.
But as far as the continued ramp of the junior sales support how has that been going and do you think we'll see maybe any uptick in contract value related to that soon? III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I've been really impressed with the caliber of the new people we had added.
We talked about most of them got here in Q3 last year and so their ability to impact sales pipelines as we entered Q4 was going to be pretty limited.
They've worked very very hard to come down the learning curves they need to.
So we're feeling really good about the progress they've been making.
As I mentioned total commercial head count is up more than 10% year on year which a great way to kick off the year.
Early in the year if you think about Q1 Q1 is probably our heaviest renewal quarter by an order of magnitude so new sales tend to be a much smaller part of the festivities in Q1.
I expect in Q2 and beyond you'll see these people really contributing on the front end of the selling pipeline.
Overall I'm pleased with their progress.
Obviously we would have loved to have them before Q3 last year but we feel materially better entering 2016 than we did 2015 from a staffing and footprint perspective.
Okay good.
Thanks for the update.
So Q2 probably will see a little more.
Did you mention – I didn't see it in the guidance – anything on if you think the FX impacts where it will be any lower this year or do you not give an estimation of that? I think what you see is in the difference between what I highlighted as constant currency revenue growth of 3% to 6% versus what's implied by our guidance.
So it's about 100 basis point headwind as we sit here today.
Okay all right.
Great.
Thanks guys.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Mike.
And our next question comes from Paul Ginocchio from Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for taking my question.
Hey Tom.
First question just can you just remind us of the key milestones and the steps that need to take place to get back to the low end of your medium-term growth target of 8% to 13%? Then I have a follow-up on that and a couple for Rich.
Thanks.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> If you follow the chain it starts with having the right number of people in place to generate contract value growth.
Then it flows through to are they engaging the right – driving the right amount of activities at the front end of the sales pipeline.
Then you'll see it flow through to bookings then contract value and then revenue growth.
So as we said at the end of Q3 we had checked the first box on that list.
And now we're working pretty furiously to check the second box which is really making sure the front end of sales pipelines are set up for success.
At this point in the year so much of our energy is about wrapping up our big – our renewal quarter and building the pipeline that sustains us through the first half of the year.
So we're feeling good about where we are.
We're feeling great about the people we've got.
We're feeling great about their early productivity but we're not yet at a point where I'd say we have declared victory and are moving on but we are seeing the leading indicators we need to see to know that we're moving in the right direction.
Inc.</span></strong> So you think you can be there by the fourth quarter or is it even beyond that? III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Given that we're several quarters away from that I'd say we're a little more focused on just putting in place the pipelines to drive first half performance.
So obviously we hope over the long term we're going to be back in our target range from a bookings and contract value perspective and the sooner the better.
But right now we're very focused on first half of 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> And last one for you Tom.
Let's say whenever it takes to get there two quarters to three quarters do you think that the current global economic environment is conducive to 8% or 13% growth or even if you had your full complement of everything you needed is this not the right environment do you think to get to8% to 13%? III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's funny.
As I said in my remarks Paul the strange thing about this economy is it's like a series of microclimates.
We are definitely seeing clients some of the industries are going to be no surprise as oil and gas E&amp;P heavy industry with big exposure to the developed world that are really struggling and we're spending a lot of time with them helping think through some pretty existential questions about how they – it's funny it's not as bad even in those industries not nearly as bad as 2008.
So the risks we see are not as severe then but there's a series of microclimates where there are companies that are struggling and there are whole lot of places where people are chugging along in this business as usual.
So our job is to make sure that we're not abandoning clients who really need our help right now even if they're not particularly attractive from a growth perspective but at the same time we're allocating lots of resources to the most attractive opportunities.
So all in all as that all nets out given the opportunity in front of us we see huge potential for growing the business.
We've just got to be super-smart about how we allocate resources across those microclimates.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay and then just a couple of housekeeping ones Rich.
What percentage growth are you going to get from Wanted? And then second are you baking in any share buybacks in your EPS forecast? I think when you look at the acquisitions we did last year a couple thoughts.
First is that we certainly in these instances in particular they're all things that integrate very quickly from a product and customer perspective and sales channel perspective with the rest of our business.
And so it becomes a little harder to break them out than if they were truly standalone businesses.
What I would say is that if you look at what the run rates of revenue were in those businesses before we acquired them they were approaching $20 million annual rate.
And so that just gives you a benchmark in terms of where they were before we acquired them.
Inc.</span></strong> And are you baking in buybacks into the $3.80 to $4.10? Not explicitly but I think that certainly we anticipate that there's going to be some lift from share count activity in the guidance.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
And our next question comes from Shlomo Rosenbaum from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Hey Tom I just want to compare the outlook from last quarter to the outlook from this quarter for 2016.
So last quarter we're talking about hitting the low end of the guidance range and now it looks like 1% to 5% growth on revenue.
Clearly the bookings didn't come in as expected.
When you break it down I guess this is a follow-up to a question that was asked beforehand.
Is it really just the market environment is tougher and it's just not conducive to producing the kind of bookings that you need? Or is it something just done in execution-wise that's taking you longer to recalibrate with the new talent? III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think it's a little of both actually.
I mean I think there are definitely pockets as I just said microclimates where it's real hard to grow right now and they're 15%-ish of our business and those are clients in real need.
So we're going to spend time with them helping them be successful without a tremendous amount of optimism about their ability to generate near-term growth.
But there is enough healthy spots in the economy we see opportunity near-term and long-term so.
But there are some localized places where we're going to have to be very smart about our commitment of resources.
As we said at the end of Q3 the Q4 is seasonally very weighted.
If you think of the difference between Q1 and Q4 Q4 is very seasonally weighted toward new and cross-sells and therefore highly dependent on the pipeline we exit Q3 with.
And we said on the Q3 call we were where we needed to be in terms of the pipeline at the frontend of that quarter.
The scenario that got us to the bottom end of the revenue growth range imply that we could convert our way out of that challenge and I think some of the economic headwinds kept us from doing that.
So there's a little of both there.
Overall I'm very pleased with the progress of the folks coming into the business.
I'm really happy that just in big raw numbers year on year we're in the place we need to be from a staffing standpoint and the place we need to be from a tenure standpoint and we're very focused on driving great activities across this first half of the year to set up a strong first-half but also set up a great back half for the year.
There's a little of both.
There are definitely some pockets of industry that are going to be hard to grow and we have to be smart about allocating resources to the places that can.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And then Rich can you talk about if you hit the midpoint of the guidance range does your free cash flow go up or does your free cash flow go down with the numbers that you gave? And can you also talk a little bit about the moving parts that impacted the free cash flow year over year? So fourth quarter of 2015 versus fourth quarter of 2014 you mentioned something about taxes and timing differences.
And if you can talk about that a little bit more.
Sure Shlomo.
Just as a reminder – I guess if you think about free cash flow as being cash flow from operations minus capital expenditures the way – in our business where we have certainly a working capital benefit that comes about from the high percentage of subscriptions in the business so when you start with EBITDA growth you get a lift from bookings growth that influences the magnitude of that working capital benefit.
There are always various puts and takes on other working capital items that'll come to play in any given year.
But if we assume a normal trend relative to the bookings growth that's implied in the guidance we probably see that ratio of operating cash flow to adjusted net income being a little bit lighter than our historical range.
And with capital expenditures that are guided a little bit stronger I think that all nets out to being probably roughly flat on a free cash flow basis year over year with the swing factors being the pace at which we can drive better bookings growth as the year goes on.
In terms of what were some of the drivers of cash flow growth in 2015 certainly the bookings growth in and of itself was a factor.
The fact that the bookings growth was slower in the second half of the year than the first half of the year certainly had an impact on that working capital element.
We did have some cash tax timing factors and then just some other puts and takes relative to various payable and other types of items nothing of a magnitude that I would call out specifically for you.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then Tom if you could just comment...
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It turns out all those (45:52) that we hired actually expected to get paid so.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> It's funny how that happens.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Tom can you talk a little bit about the changes that you're making in terms of the go-to-market strategy because I remember in 2008 and 2009 there was also change in market strategy in terms of a focus on cross-sell sell vis-à-vis a focus on Greenfield clients and it seems like you're going through another evolutionary period in terms of complexity of clients.
And is it just kind of coincidental that this stuff kind of happens when the capital markets and the selling environment is choppy or does it kind of a highlight to you that there needs to be a change or how should we think about that? III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think if the last time was revolution this time's decidedly evolution.
We started talking about the fact that last year in markets like Australia New Zealand we were seeing real benefits from having all the different piece parts of the CEB organization reporting up to a single leader who could facilitate and in some cases drive cross-sell because they were looking across to the team's selling opportunity.
We went down that path in North America middle of last year where all the elements of let's say CEB selling SHL selling et cetera came up to a single leader just going one step further to say we're going to get ever tighter alignment in territories single leaders ever closer to the customer the lessons from international were the – if there is a single leader looking across the finite set of opportunities they're going to see chances to leverage a workforce analytics win into a broader set of opportunities or leverage a CEB Talent Assessment win into a broader set of opportunities and we're just putting people in place to do that.
It's particularly acute in HR and sales management work.
We have such a breadth of things we do for the clients that having some of these students both the client and the breadth of opportunity can really align the team resources where we can make stuff happen.
So we're very excited about this all credit to the teams outside the U.S.
that have really pioneered this and made great stuff happen and all credit to our teams in North America that have been rapidly making the switch and are already off and running.
But I'd characterize this one as a lot more evolutionary than revolutionary.
In that it's just a further continuation of what we did back then which is where in a finite number of buying centers and we're getting ever deeper into those buying centers with an ever richer set of products.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And then I'm sorry I would just if I can squeeze one more in.
Where would you say your guidance for the year stands in terms of the spectrum of a conservative versus aggressive going into this year versus what we had going into say last year because we had a number of revisions last year? Going in with the choppy environment are you tempering stuff vis-à-vis your normal metrics or is this just kind of this – you use the same set of kind of projecting tools regardless of the environment.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> One constant in CEB's business model has been visibility right? You look and say we open the doors on January 1 with a pretty clear picture of stuff already sitting on the balance sheet and in contract value and as we move through Q1 it's a big renewal quarter we gained substantial additional visibility.
So while there are macro factors that can swing us to the bottom-end or high-end of the guidance range as the year unfolds in pretty extreme circumstances can swing us outside the range.
Our business model gives us an unusual amount of visibility into full year revenue production to the good and bad like there's part of me that says we have more than 10% growth in staff seasoning of staff has gone up substantially year-on-year.
I'm feeling very good about the team in the field.
But even if we're very optimistic about what they can accomplish it's hard to imagine blowing through the high end of that range because of that visibility factor.
But we have a lot of visibility in this business model and that gives us the ability to be pretty clear about what we think is going to happen in the year.
We obviously incorporate momentum macro factors et cetera into that but the real headline is visibility.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> All right thank you.
And our next question is from Tobey Sommer from SunTrust.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks a couple of follow-up questions to some things that have been asked.
Rich I don't think I quite understood the comment you made about share repurchase being in the guidance.
Do you incorporate an assumption for a lower share count in the guidance or is that – would that be additive to the bottom-line? There is some assumption in there that is not the full complement of what we're targeting for the year let's put it that way.
I think we incorporated some but not all of what the target is.
Inc.</span></strong> And how much did you say you're targeting for repurchase in 2016? We're targeting a minimum of $100 million in 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And obviously we have the authorization to go beyond that if conditions suggest that's a good idea.
Right.
Inc.</span></strong> A question for you about the CEB Talent Assessment that you have with the contract value that you're now disclosing.
How much of the segment revenue is associated with the contract value because I know you're kind of migrating towards a more recurring revenue stream there and I just want to know how to judge that.
Yeah I mean I think it's a fairly representative if you take the contract value as a percentage of what the full year revenue was I think that's fairly representative of the relative proportion of what you see in any given year.
As I said it excluded professional services and then some of the more kind of pay-as-you-go or what we call in arrears usage type revenue which can be a little bit more variable.
But I think from a 30 000-foot level that's a reasonable approximation.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We feel this is a good milestone actually because when we took over the business I would guess probably 20%-ish of the revenue would have been what we would consider a contract value-ish if you just look at it in those terms.
So the steady migration we've been able to engineer in this business from to a classic recurring revenue subscription type business is something that team has worked very hard on and we're very pleased with the milestone that we can put out there and say okay now we can give you all visibility into the development of that business on a very consistent way.
So we're pleased to be able to do that.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
A question on the Atlas Project; how many years will this project take to fully implement? And I'm curious about what kind of peers are you tapping to get their experiences and make sure to leverage those? I think this is going to be a multi-year effort.
We're in the kind of early stages of requirements definition and design right now but assume it's going to be two-year to three-year initiative to get fully implemented.
And we're going to move as fast as we can to get there.
I think it's a variety of companies that have done this in the past.
I think probably the biggest example would be IHS with their project Vanguard is one that happened several years ago.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then I wanted to ask a question Rich what constant currency organic growth is embedded in the guidance? Is just taking 2 percentage points off of either end of the range is that about the right approximation? III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'd say roughly.
Though I would say to Rich's point the things we bought last year I don't want to say disappeared they're fantastic assets but got consolidated very quickly.
And I think if you ask that question of any CEB-er they'd say actually these are single product platforms.
But yeah I think the constant currency organic revenue growth's going to be in the low-single digit range.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thank you very much.
And our next question is from Timothy McHugh from William Blair.
Hi.
Yes thanks.
Just I guess one – I know it doesn't swing the numbers significantly given I guess the impact that renewals and sales at the start of the year have.
But I'm sure you had embedded an assumption of some kind so what were you thinking when you set guidance in terms of bookings for 2016? I mean what's the target for to get to I guess for the full year or by year-round even? III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I mean in big simple terms our kind of it's funny we – Rich and our sales leadership team have an infinite number of sophisticated models about what can happen.
But in big simple terms if we're listing head count by double-digits and assuming there's going to be some economic headwind you can assume that our targeting bookings growth within our 8% to 13% range but depending on how weak those sectors turn out to be probably at the lower end of that range.
When we talk about staffing growth that generally tends to lead through the bookings growth across the full year.
And as we said it's harder to kick that into gear early in the year just because of the normal customer buying patterns of Q1 being renewals heavy and Q4 being the more cross-selling new selling heavy portion of the year.
But there's all kinds of adjustments we make to that but a 10% lift in commercial head count does give us confidence that we should be even in a weaker economic environment powering through to the high-single-digits growth on a full year basis.
Right.
I guess since you're talking about that 10% or greater than 10% growth what did you enter 2015 with in terms of the kind of commercial head count growth? And I guess when you lost the junior salespeople I guess where were you at kind of at the low point in terms of year-over-year head count earlier and in kind of 2Q or 3Q? III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'm trying to do the numbers live but I'm not sure I can but you can assume that it was closer to mid-to-lower single digit on just a raw body-to-body head count at the trough.
Is that...
I think that's right.
And then as we had talked about last year we saw some of the attrition really starting to pick up in the beginning in the first quarter and that was the thing that kind of caught us a little bit by surprise.
And so having entered the year with what we would have hoped would have been sufficient for the year then we had some attrition and then that put us in the spot that we were in.
This year we're feeling good not only about how we entered the year but also what the attrition trends look like early in the year.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And just raw caliber of people we brought in.
But I think that's roughly – if you pick the trough rather than kind of the 12/31 number I think it's safe to say mid-to-low single digits in terms of year-on-year head count growth in those areas.
Okay.
And I guess just more broadly I think there's obviously given the stock price you can tell there is a broader concern that there are more than just sales turnover issues happening with the growth I guess.
I know you're pointing to some macro sensitivity too here.
I guess but is there anything – how confident are you now that it's been nine months since we've seen the sales issue pop up? It's really simply a turnover issue and just a timing issue of backfilling that pipeline versus something more structural or I guess permanent or at least a longer term that you have to fight through in terms of market penetration or some other factor? III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> As we look downstream in the pipelines a lot of those metrics have remained very stable.
So we've got a fair bit of confidence that filling the front-end of the pipeline is job one.
If we look at conversion rates at the back end of the pipeline which are pretty good indicators of is there something else happening.
We're feeling highly confident.
There is macro stuff out there.
It does appear to be contained and localized and nowhere near as severe as we've seen in past years.
So that's going to be a factor and it's our job to make sure that we take advantage of the great new people we've got by getting them productive and getting them allocated the highest return active.
Looking throughout the pipeline we're not spooked by any sort of sudden new weird behavior that we haven't seen before.
It's getting enough activities in at the front end of the pipeline and making sure those activities are targeted on areas in the economy that are likely to yield a return.
Okay and then just a clarification.
Rich I got a little turned around when you're talking about free cash flow and I think you were netting out some things but then you threw the term flat in there.
I guess were you saying free cash flow would be flat this year? I was unclear what you were saying in terms of that.
I think first of all it depends a lot on where the bookings growth lands because that's going to be a big driver of the working capital benefit but I would say flat to possibly better depending on bookings growth.
And again if you go back to the EBITDA growth implied by the combination of the revenue guidance and the margin guidance there's going to be some EBITDA growth but relatively lower.
And then CapEx is a little bit higher this year based on the guidance.
So that nets out to basically flat free cash flow year over year with some opportunity for it to be stronger depending on where bookings growth is.
Okay thanks.
And our next question comes from David Ridley-Lane from Merrill Lynch.
Sure.
So I wanted to ask about the constant currency CEB segment wallet retention rate; any themes that you'd call out among program types? You said a couple times on the call already that by sector oil and gas and so forth are weak but any other themes that you would call out on that retention trend? III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So the big themes I think are the ones I talked about which is North America which is where the staffing stuff hit us is the weak sister in the equation there.
So that's probably the largest theme by a lot.
The wallet retention has two component parts.
It has renewal and it has cross-sell flowing into that.
And so I'd say the dampening effect on wallet retention was disproportionately cross-sell and add-ons of premium services as we simply didn't have enough pipeline to generate the necessary growth there.
So I'd say in order: geography North America and staffing one; and then a little bit of sector around the edges would be two the two themes we're calling out.
Got it.
And then Rich what's a rough amount of planned spending for sales in financial systems upgrades? Like I said we're still in the requirements phase of the project so our estimates are well informed but they're still preliminary at this time.
But having said that we'd anticipate that over the next two to three years the program will drive somewhere in that $30 million to $35 million of incremental operating expense that's going to come through that line.
And as a reminder because of the new accounting rules that normally would have gone disproportionately to capital expenditures but it's going to come through operating expense.
So we're going to run as fast as we can to get it done as fast as possible so we can get closer to realizing the benefits but I'd say at most you would expect half of that total to flow through 2016.
Got it.
And then this may have changed but I guess about a year ago or so you gave some rules of thumb about the EBITDA impact based on exchange rates.
And so you were using those and getting a modest benefit to adjusted EBITDA from FX primarily because your costs are disproportionately in British pounds.
Are those rules of thumb still relatively applicable? They're not broadly different.
The thing is obviously the mix and the relative correlation of the currencies to each other has changed a little bit.
But I think overall we're still looking at about 20% give or take of our revenue is in the three main currencies the pound the euro and the Australian dollar.
And that correlates to about – or that represents roughly 5% or so of our total EBITDA because of the offset on the pound.
So to the extent you get a stronger U.S.
dollar versus pound relative to how the U.S.
dollar is performing against those other currencies then that certainly helps on margin.
And to the extent it goes the other way then that hurts.
Got it.
And then you've talked a lot about first quarter renewals and some talk about visibility.
I'm just wondering what percentage of full-year renewals have already been completed in January and if you've seen any recent trend in the renewal rate from fourth quarter levels.
Thanks.
I think roughly roughly you've got about 30% of the full year's bookings happening in the first quarter.
Most of that is renewals in the first quarter and certainly a fair amount of it concentrates in January.
So I think we've got pretty good visibility on that part of the renewal pool and that visibility is carrying forward to our guidance that we put out there.
All right thank you very much.
Our next question is from Gary Bisbee from RBC Capital Markets.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
First question so in talking about the new buyback authorization you said it allows for flexibility to be opportunistic if market conditions make sense so let me lay this out for you.
So your stock is down 40% in six months.
You're at a valuation that has rarely been this low since the recession.
You expressed confidence that the hires you've done should allow for upper-single-digit bookings growth by the end of the year.
So I don't see how this isn't an opportunity to take advantage of market conditions and be opportunistic.
I think your investors would like to see you take on a turn of leverage which would allow you to buy back 12% to 15% of the equity and take advantage of this and I think $100 million doesn't cut it.
Just one guy's view but I guess I want your perspective on that and your perspective on why this might not be an excellent time to be opportunistic.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Gary.
It's Tom.
Overall we're making a substantial step up even if you assume all we do is execute on the $100 million Rich laid out.
So we're feeling – obviously the business generates a ton of cash.
Obviously we think it's a buying opportunity and obviously we were frustrated we locked out technically in the back half of Q4 when the stock went down.
So I think between the dividend the overall increase in buyback authorization and the plan step up in programmatic approaches we're making a substantial commitment.
And as I said beyond that we've got capacity and authorization to go do more so I don't think we'd disagree with you at all.
At the baseline we just wanted to lay out a very clear sense of what the de minimis approach is going to be in 2016 and let you know we're getting after it.
But I don't think there's any part of our confidence in the business or where we think the equity is trading right now relative to that that you laid out that I'd disagree with.
Okay great.
And then about a year ago if I recall you changed sales leadership to an internal person who has had a great track record with the company but never had been directly in sales or managed sales.
Given these issues in the last year and I'm not trying to pin blame on one person but would you consider – and certainly it would seem to make sense to me that new sales leadership from outside the company with a documented track record of success could really benefit your business given how broad and large you think the market opportunity is.
So I guess is there an opportunity to upgrade or add to senior management and how you're thinking about that? Thanks.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> A couple of thoughts; we asked Kurt Reisenberg to step back over from leading a huge chunk of our product organization to lead our commercial organization actually in August.
So Kurt is still counting days into the job not yet even months into the job and Chris gotten his arms around this very fast and Kurt had prior to running product had built in one of our key accounts and strategic accounts organization.
So he had a lot of experience in the CEB commercial system and his finger prints were on some of the highest performing parts of it.
So we've got a lot of confidence with the sales leadership team.
We have in place both Kurt in North America and Anthony Parslow internationally.
And underneath them you'd find them being very active about bring in external high-performing sales talent.
So I don't think either one of them has shied away from bringing great talent into the organization.
So again we see an opportunity there too to nicely mix allowing our highest performing leaders to rise in that organization and seed them with some great external talent.
And I think we've got a great plan in place.
But having just made that – having just pulled Kurt over we feel very good about the level of leadership we've got on top in North America right now and we feel very confident about the leadership team he's assembled around him.
Okay great.
Sorry I was off on the timing there but I appreciate you clarifying.
And then just two other I guess easier ones for you.
I noticed your outlook commentary really didn't distinguish much between the segments.
Is there a little more granular data you can give us and how you're thinking about the two businesses within 2016? I think all I would say is from a revenue perspective certainly we are – there is a not a tremendous differentiation in terms of what the target growth rates are in those businesses.
I think from a margin perspective we do see continued margin expansion this year from SHL and probably – it's probably a little harder to get additional margin expansion on the CEB segment side just especially given kind of a lot of the hiring not all of it but a lot of the hiring flowed through on to that side of the business this year.
So that's about as far as I can go at this stage.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think to some degree one of the reasons for that is as we talked about as you move North America into closer and closer alignment it's going to be harder and harder to distinguish we're going to visit a Head of HR what do we talk to them about right.
Is it which of the products we can sell them so that it's not surprising to see those businesses coming to closer alignment.
And you caught me saying SHL when I meant to say CEB Talent Assessment segment.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That shriek you heard in the background was Rob Chen our CMO.
You're going to have a hard time getting us to switch.
Externally for clients it makes sense.
I think it's always going to be SHL to me.
But anyway so that just leads to one last one from me which is you have acknowledged that a lot of the hiring was in CEB and that's where a lot of the staffing shortfall was.
SHL revenue growth I would argue continues to disappoint.
I guess any updated thoughts on that success you've had in selling into North American market where I know that business was underpenetrated and what's really going – how much I guess is the transition to more subscription-type sales impacting those reported growth numbers relative to what you're seeing the underlying business do? Thank you.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think it certainly affects the reported revenue numbers and that's why we're giving you a contract value number so you can mark our progress there.
And I don't want to understate the value of the teams that worked hard to convert that business to that platform.
That said the SHL business story is A Tale of Two Cities; we have not delivered what we hoped to in North America the rest of the world is chugging along at a good clip.
North America the opportunity in front of us is not getting realized fast enough.
And that is I'd like to say – I think it's very fair to say it's on me.
I was likely a little conservative in terms of making sure we're bringing together the selling opportunities fast enough fearful that that would disrupt momentum.
Instead we actually didn't take enough advantage of our huge installed footprint.
So a lot of what we're doing in North America is make sure we're setting that business up for the growth it can enjoy by bringing the selling organizations much closer together in front of the customer and facilitating much more effective cross-sell.
We did it in a number of markets outside the U.S.
Last year we saw great returns.
And it's time for us to move to that platform in North America.
It's just a logical evolution but it's one that should power growth in that segment across time.
So it is certainly the optics of the transition to a subscription business are part of it but part of it is we have not gotten after the North America opportunity fast enough due to some structural decisions that we as a leadership team made and now we're moving past.
Great.
Thank you.
I appreciate the color guys.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Our next question comes from Manav Patnaik from Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thanks for taking my question.
So firstly I would broadly echo Gary's comments around the capital allocation just I think we all would have expected it to be a little bit quicker but I think my question is a little bit more tailored from – hopefully you were not having that but clearly everyone in the market is trying to price in recession scenarios.
And my question is more I think last recession obviously we saw the CEB contract value take a notable hit.
I'm just curious with the current transitions and rehirings going on today versus last time like what's different with the product what's different with the strategy like what should we be expect should we hit some sort of pressures like we did last time like will the business hold up stronger what the strategy different from last time just trying to get a better feel for how you guys are planning for those kind of situations? III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'd start by saying even in the sort of least favorable microclimates out there right now the business ours and no else's doesn't feel much like 2008-2009.
If we are going to have micro-recessions or whatever it doesn't bear any resemblance to what we're seeing a few years ago.
So that's the first observation.
And in traditional garden-variety recession CEB's held up quite well so under the extreme stress of 2008 – 2009 we did take a step back but in a more localized recession ranging from Europe in the recent past going all the way back to the first half of last decade more localized recessions have been a pretty favorable environment for us.
And we've obviously taken steps post the crisis of 2008 and 2009 to strengthen the business everything from skinning down the product set to get deeper into customer workflows to linking more and more of what we do to their everyday work.
So we're feeling well-equipped for a wide variety of economic scenarios.
Obviously in a recession if we do end up in one and it's broad et cetera it is harder for us to grow.
That's where it tends to go in a garden-variety of recession not a global financial crisis.
It is harder for us to get some of the step-up and create budget for a thing they've never bought before.
But we tend to see tremendous stability around customer relationship with some renewals and the ability to augment them with cross-sells and premium services.
So I feel good about where the business is positioned it begins and ends with having the right team on the field which we've got.
And I think we've done a lot of good work to make sure we're well suit up for a wide variety of economic circumstances.
And on a 2016 basis again visibility is our friend we wake up on Jan 1 with a pretty clear picture of what the business looks like.
And as Rich said Q1's a big renewal quarter that overweights toward January so we wake up on Feb 1 with an even clear picture of what the year looks like.
So we're feeling with the staffing we have in place and the opportunity to support members we're feeling good about the positioning in the business.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess just – and I apologize if I missed this.
But just looking at your wallet retention and your client retention rate they've been sequentially coming down.
I know you've called out oil and gas I guess in the past like is there anything more than that like I mean are you starting to see businesses just cancel or go out of business completely like just any color there? III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's interesting.
The short answer is the real story line there is the staffing shortfall because we simply didn't have enough account coverage in place to drive the front end of the pipeline.
Even with existing customers you still need to generate the activities to grow that business.
So the number one theme in wallet retention is the staffing gap that led to the sales pipeline gap we talked about.
Beyond that even in the sort of ugly microclimates it's a different tone oil and gas industrial products et cetera there is no one – people are definitely struggling to find budget dollars but no one has their hair on fire or has an existential crisis.
They're just working with us to say okay here is what I got to get done over the next 12 months how can you guys help me.
So we'd say we are definitely seeing microclimates that are harder to grow but we don't feel the level of direst that you would have seen in the global financial crisis.
It feels much more like even in just those sectors kind of the economic challenges we saw in Europe a couple of years ago people being very planful about that next dollar but running their business as usual.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay fair enough.
Thanks guys.
And our next question comes from Timothy McHugh from William Blair.
Hi.
I know it's going on for a while but just a quick follow-up.
You mentioned that renewals obviously are heaviest in January and you have insight into that at this point.
So I guess just given – and you said that was factored into your guidance.
But even qualitatively have you seen the sales force issues? Did that impact the renewal rate? And I guess as you saw renewals just directionally did it I guess did it help or hurt how you look at 2016 given we have the call I guess in May so I'll ask now rather than wait for a few months with everyone guessing.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'm not sure I know what the question was there.
But yeah we're not – the new hires in the step-up tend to be disproportionately impactful on the front end of the selling pipeline and think of that as new sales and cross-sells.
Q1 tends to be mostly about working with someone who has been using your project to get their product to get them locked in for the next year.
So their level of impact around the edges some of the account management support teams probably did drive incremental usage and value in Q4 but you tend not to see their impact as much on that.
I think you will see over time a number of those people are going into driving great outcomes for existing customers as well as growing new market.
So I think you'll see a balance across the year in terms of their renewal impact through 2016 and into 2017 and new sales growth.
I don't know if that answers your question but that Q1 renewable tends that to be as sensitive to staffing growth because it's again it's renewables as opposed to either cross-sales new sales premium upgrades whatever.
That said staffing growth should really help us create great impact for our members and continue to grab great outcomes for them that we can build upon.
Okay.
It helps a little but I guess I probably didn't order it well.
Just even relative to the macro I guess you said you've seen renewals the bulk of the renewal activity is in January and so you've seen that at this point I guess for 2016.
How did that perform and I guess even directionally was it better worse than you expected? I'm just trying to get a sense of that given the environment.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> In big round directions it's winning historical ranges.
The sectors that are challenged obviously didn't perform as well as the vast majority of the companies that are doing fine in building their business.
So I think it's a continuation of – from a macro perspective continuation of what we saw in the back half of last year.
The overwhelming majority of sectors are very healthy and proceeding with business as usual a few have challenges and we're working with them to kind of make sure we're doing everything we can to support them.
But I don't think there's a lot of news – certainly there's no news in the Q1 renewals to-date that isn't incorporated in the guidance.
Okay thanks.
That does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I would like to turn things back over to Mr.
Monahan for any additional or closing remarks.
III - Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you all for calling and/or logging in today.
We appreciate the opportunity to highlight the continued impact growth and profitability of the business.
Rich and I'll be out and about and look forward to seeing many of you in our travels over the next month and more importantly keeping you up-to-date on the CEB story across the year.
Thanks everyone.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.