Good day and welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Co.
First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and is being simulcast live at www.colgate.com.
[Operator Instructions] At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Bina Thompson.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Lisa.
Good morning everybody and welcome to our First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
With me today are Ian Cook Chairman President and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller; and Elaine Paik Treasurer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the caption Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements on Forward-looking Statements.
We will discuss organic sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and divestitures.
A full reconciliation with the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the press release and is posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.colgate.com.
We're pleased with our results as we begin 2011.
As you are aware global business conditions remain challenging with sluggish category growth rates in the developed world and steeply rising commodity costs everywhere.
Despite that our volume and organic sales growth are accelerating and our global market shares are up on a year-to-date basis in toothpaste manual toothbrushes bar soaps shampoos household cleaners and fabric conditioners with balanced market share results across division.
Our advertising investment have also increased from the fourth quarter of 2010 to support our innovations and that is expected to further increase as the pace of new product launches quickens through the balance of the year.
Our volume growth of 2% is on top of the increase of 6% in the first quarter of 2010.
We still expect full year volume growth to be in the 4% to 5% range as comparisons ease for the remainder of the year.
You'll hear about new products launched and planned as we go through the division.
The pipeline is as full as it has ever been.
Due to the severe rise in commodity costs our gross margin declined year-over-year as compared with a 170 basis point increase in the year ago period.
And we expect our gross margin to remain around our first quarter levels for the remainder of the year as we anticipate the current cost environment to be largely offset by another year of very strong fund in the gross savings and appropriate price increases.
Looking forward to the remainder of the year we should also benefit from a more favorable currency tailwind than originally anticipated in the beginning of the year.
And as you know we announced the acquisition of the Sanex business a little over a month ago along with the divestiture of our laundry detergent brands in Colombia.
Those transactions are still under review by the respective competition authorities in Europe and Colombia but we're excited about the acquisition as it fits precisely what our strategy is focusing on higher growth and margin brands around the world.
As we previously told you these transactions are expected to have an accretive effect on a combined basis of approximately 4% on total company earnings in 2011 due entirely to the one-time gain on the detergent business sales and a positive effect on earnings in 2012 of approximately 1% from growth and efficiencies of the Sanex business.
As referenced in the press release organic sales growth in the emerging market is solid and we expect that to continue.
Encouragingly we are beginning to see signs of improvement in developed markets particularly Europe which should bode well for the remainder of the year.
Our balance sheet remains solid and cash flow is strong which allowed us to continue our share repurchase program as well as to announce a dividend increase of 9% effective in this quarter.
Working capital levels remain low and our return on capital is at 38.1% up over a point from the year end 2010.
So let's turn to the division starting in North America business in this region remains challenging.
Category growth rates has slowed somewhat from last year and competitive promotional activity is still high.
So we're pleased that our all outlet toothpaste market share is up on a year-to-date basis maintaining market leadership.
One encouraging sign is that private label shares are flat or down in most of our categories in the U.S.
As you know private label and toothpaste has remained in the area of 0.5% for many years.
We're excited about a number of new product launches in the first quarter.
Our relaunch of Colgate Total is exceeding and strengthening the brand equity with our share of Colgate Total up 20 basis points year-over-year.
Our latest advertising campaign is the strongest in five years.
Our tracking tests are showing superior recall branding and messaging both versus our previous campaigns and versus competition.
In the second quarter we also have a new campaign directed to diabetics who are prone to developing gingivitis.
We will be advertising in print and on dLife a lifestyle website for people with diabetes.
As well as launching a program for diabetes educators along with a new Colgate Total variant placed in the diabetic section in store.
Our latest in the Max franchise Max Clean with SmartFoam has now gained full distribution at all accounts.
Advertising begins in May both on television and online.
And given the younger target user we will be sampling both in universities and popular travel destinations.
In the manual toothbrush category first quarter saw the launch of Colgate 360° Surround a breakthrough toothbrush innovation design to remove bacteria in three ways: the cleaning efficiencies achieved with unique surround designed bristles a first in its kind wrap around cleaner and a cheek and tongue cleaner.
And in support of the launch media accompanied by a strong integrated marketing campaign began this month.
We have even more exciting new products which we'll launch in the third quarter and we'll update you on those when we get closer to their introduction.
So looking ahead we expect volume in North America to be even with a year ago in the second quarter and the full year.
Organic sales should be down modestly in the second quarter flat for the full year.
Operating profit is expected to decline mid-single digit for the second quarter and full year.
Turning then to Europe.
We're pleased with our results in Europe given the continued difficult macroeconomic conditions in both Western and Central Europe.
Encouragingly we are beginning to see positive growth in the Oral and Personal Care categories while declines in Home Care are slowing and our market shares are solid.
In 2010 we were the only company that increased our regional market shares in all Oral Care categories and that momentum has continued into 2011.
On a year-to-date basis our shares are up in toothpaste both manual and battery toothbrushes and mouthwash.
In toothpaste our launch of Max White One has been successful across the region.
In Greece Sanex resulted in a record share of 50.3 in the latest period.
In Italy where we are now the market leader our share is up almost a full point year-to-date and Max White One has been completely incremental to the Max franchise.
In manual toothbrushes our share is up 40 basis points across the region to 20.3% with the most recent period up 20.8%.
In non-Oral Care categories we're very pleased with our share performance in fabric conditioners where the share is up 70 basis points year-to-date.
In France our biggest market our share is up 50 basis points to 51.4 the best performance in over three years.
So while we remain cautious in our outlook for this region we expect the results to improve throughout the year.
Volume growth for the second quarter and full year is expected to be low- to mid-single digit with organic sales growing low single-digit.
Operating profit is expected to decline modestly in the second quarter but should be up mid-single digit for the full year.
Turning to Latin America business across this region remained solid.
As noted in the press release we maintained our leading share position in toothpaste.
And despite competitive challenges our most recent Scantrack market share data in both Brazil and Mexico show increases versus the prior period with Brazil at over 70% and Mexico at 80%.
Our leading market share in toothbrushes is up over a full point on a year-to-date basis fueled by good gains in Brazil Mexico Venezuela and Colombia.
In Brazil our share is up almost 1.5 points as products such as Colgate 360° meet with continued success.
In mouthwash we continue to grow share.
Our share is up one full point year-over-year narrowing the gap with a leading competitor from almost 30 points in 2007 to just under 12 points.
In bar soaps we increased our leading market share position up over a point year-over-year.
And we now hold the number one position in 8 of 12 countries around the region with Protex holding the leading brand position followed by Palmolive.
In Mexico our share was up 1.3 points driven by the successful relaunch of our Palmolive Naturals line.
Year-to-date market share has also increased in underarm protection and fabric conditioners.
And in liquid cleaners we were stable and maintained our regional number one position.
We're encouraged with the momentum in our Latin American business.
As you know volume growth in the first quarter of 2010 was 8% presenting a difficult comparison.
Going forward we expect to see an acceleration from the first quarter of 2011 in both volume and organic sales.
We expect volume growth for the second quarter and full year to be in the mid-single digit range with organic sales growing double digit for both periods.
Operating profit is expected to grow double digit for the second quarter up absolutely and as a percent of sales.
Operating profit on an absolute basis for the full year is expected to grow double digit.
Turning then to Greater Asia/Africa.
The momentum in this part of the world continues.
Despite pressure on gross profit due to increased raw material costs our good control of overhead expenses allowed us to increase advertising to support both existing and new products.
This has resulted in solid market share performance.
Our year-to-date regional toothpaste share increased year-over-year by 20 basis points and now stands at over 40%.
We expect to continue to see strong results with a continued support of our relaunch of Colgate Total as referenced in the press release and the introduction this quarter of Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief Multi Protection.
Toothbrushes we maintained our regional number one position close to 37%.
In mouthwash new products strong media support effective promotions and in-store visibility have allowed us to continue to grow our business.
Year-to-date our market shares are up 250 basis points to nearly 17%.
And of particular note in India and Russia our shares are now over 20% and in China our shares are almost 30%.
While this is still a small category we see very good growth potential and are excited about our progress.
All of this bodes well for the rest of the year.
Looking forward we expect volume in Greater Asia/Africa to be up high single-digit for the second quarter and full year with organic sales growing double digits.
Operating profit on an absolute basis is expected to grow high single-digits for the second quarter and full year.
And Hill's we're delighted that our Hill's business has renewed momentum.
The plans that we implemented throughout last year have delivered good results.
First our rightsizing and right pricing initiatives and then a full rollout of relevant new products.
Volume growth was good both in the U.S.
and internationally and we're seeing an improvement in market shares and uptick in veterinary recommendations.
Here in the U.S.
we see continued growth behind Science Diet Healthy Mobility which was launched in June of last year.
We are the number one brand in the mobility category and have brought new users into the Science Diet franchise.
Their repeat rate is very high evidence of the product's efficacy.
Much of the advertising support has been through online and in-store activities.
Increasingly we see digital as a very effective and less expensive vehicle for supporting our brands.
We told you on previous calls about success across Europe of our Science Plan VetEssentials a wellness food distributed only through the veterinary channel.
That resulted in an increase in our brand recommended most often in Europe by 2 points.
Shipments in the first quarter exceeded our goals by 10%.
So we're very excited about our launch here in the U.S.
this quarter of a similar product Science Diet Healthy Advantage Vet Exclusives.
Initial orders have exceeded our goal.
In support of the launch we have distributed free bags to vet technicians to encourage endorsement.
With a continued stream of new products planned for the balance of the year we are encouraged about the prospects for Hill's.
Volume for the second quarter and full year is expected to increase mid-single digit with organic growth at similar levels.
Operating profit is expected to increase mid-single digit for the second quarter and full year up on an absolute basis.
So in summary we're pleased with our results for the first quarter particularly with the global macroeconomic challenges we and our competitors have been facing.
Momentum is building and we expect that to continue as we go through the balance of the year.
Our strategies are in place and working our market shares are increasing and Colgate people around the world are committed to delivering another good year in 2011.
Lisa that's the end of my prepared remarks.
And now I would like to turn it over to the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now take our first question from Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Just wondered if you could quantify a little bit more for us kind of the commodity exposure.
This is an old metric but it used to be $1 of oil was $0.01 to EPS all else equal and I didn't know if there was any way to look at that and maybe kind of quantify what pricing is needed to offset that? Okay Bill.
Well let me try and give you a holistic view on commodity costs the pressure they bring and how we are dealing with it.
And I think frankly the situation and the answer is probably more complex and broader than simple algorithms.
Perhaps I could take this opportunity to do what we traditionally do on this call and that is to give you the roll forward of the prior year gross margin to this year's gross margin for the first quarter.
So prior year gross profit was 59.2%.
We have some minor other and pricing offsetting but the crux of it is that the material price impact was 1.9 percentage points negative quarter-on-quarter and our Funding the Growth savings were 1.1% positive and that's the 80 basis points difference.
So what we saw in the first quarter is that our Funding the Growth was inadequate to offset the cost impact and pricing did not contribute.
If you take a step back from our point of view as we entered this year we said we were redoubling our focus on Funding the Growth.
And if you look back at 2010 and prior years you will know that the way our Funding the Growth program builds it tends to progressively improve quarter-on-quarter which is to say that the first quarter is the lowest quarter in terms of our Funding the Growth savings.
And with our focus this year we very much expect a similar progression across the balance of the year.
So we will get a better offset with Funding the Growth savings against the material prices as the year progresses.
Secondly on pricing we took pricing in the first quarter broadly across categories and around the world and we'll have more pricing as the year progresses.
But with the lead lag on pricing what we're going to see is that we will get some benefit in the second quarter but the majority of the benefit from price will come in the second half of the year and that pricing will see our organic sales move from a mid-single digit to a high-single digit level.
So we will be taking appropriate pricing in the circumstances so as not to prejudice volume and it will not be at the levels we took in 2008 or 2009.
And if you put that together that is what gives us our view on holding gross margin this year at the first quarter level essentially offsetting the dollar impact of the material costs.
Now the other thing we said was that we were focusing on structural overhead changes that we could also bring to the income segment as the year unfolded and we continue to very much focus on that.
And we'll report as we have anything to report.
So that's an additional area that we are focused on.
And for our next question we'll go to Wendy Nicholson with Citi Investment Research.
If you can just continue on that train of thought because that was a lot of information and I don't know if I got it all because if the savings is supposed to accelerate as we go through the course of the year and the benefit of pricing is supposed to get better.
As you look forward for 2Q 3Q 4Q what have you budgeted or assumed that that 1.9 drag from inflation in the first quarter is going to escalate to? And the next part of that is can you talk about your expectation for promotional levels kind of given that you've got a back half weighted I think new product program or innovation program do you think your promotional spending is going to go up so there's going to be an incremental drag if you will on the gross margin? Thanks Wendy.
That's very much factored in.
As you know when we go through this gross profit roll forward we tend to focus on the quarter that we're in and not talk to the prices going forward.
As we look at commodity costs as the year unfolds I think the last time we spoke we talked about an 8% to 10% increase.
That range over the year is now between 11% and 13%.
Therefore the Funding the Growth savings and the pricing we think judiciously and appropriately being taken will offset that headwind over the balance of the year.
Now from a promotional point of view as we look around the world frankly we continue to see elevated levels of promotional activity and we continue to meet that promotional activity where necessary.
But we think the pricing we have in we can take in the context of maintaining our volume momentum.
And so therefore whatever activity to generate trial for our new products that we have built in are already built into those assumptions.
And as you know Wendy when one thinks about price and leveraging from a gross margin point of view we focus yes on the pricing per se but also on the innovation and what premium pricing that can bring on our promotional activity and how we can make that more efficient with Colgate business planning on resizing in order to accrue a margin benefit.
So there is the basic price and then the multiple marketing techniques that we have to advance gross margin.
And for our next question we'll go to Doug Lane with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Can you put a little bit more color on the reduced outlook for North America what's driving that? And then maybe as part of that answer can you talk about recent declines here in Mennen and Irish Spring which seem to have been fairly persistent? Okay if we talk about the U.S.
as you know Doug over half of that business is in the international markets and the growth attained there North America and Europe as we have discussed them before have slower category growth to begin with.
And we have seen as Bina commented a slowdown in the growth of our categories even from the fourth quarter to the first quarter.
So you see stepped up promotional activity in our categories.
The big factor for us in North America is the timing of our innovation which last year was very much first quarter oriented and this year is very much third quarter oriented.
We have already received the benefit of the relaunch of Total that we did last year which is helping consolidate our leadership market position on toothpaste.
Bina mentioned the new Max variant which is just going to market in the second quarter.
And then I think you'll be quite excited by some of the innovation you see in the second half.
If I turn to the other two businesses that you called out actually Irish Spring is a very strong and buoyant business.
And the modest slowdown we have seen is in part related and planned for in the pricing action we took given the sharp run-up in fats and oils but we have extended that equity quite nicely into the body wash category and have grown a very good market share position there.
On the underarm business that is a challenging category.
It is highly competitive with multiple key players.
We have seen our Mennen shares under pressure in that business.
We believe we have a stream of innovation now that is relevant.
We have a stream of promotional activity that we view as strong and we are looking to see that business stabilize as we work our way through 2011.
And we'll now go to Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Ian can you give us an update on and an overview of the competitive environment in your key categories and geographies in Q1? You mentioned North America remains intense but is promotion getting better at all in other regions? And also can you give us a bit more detail on what's occurring in North America? It is just in-store promotional activity price-related seeking to attract consumers in markets that are not growing at historical levels.
And I think there are several factors at play in the United States.
Unemployment even though the numbers are edging down they are still high and the underemployment rate is even higher which has people economizing.
You have the cost of gas where we see some quite substantial shifts in consumer shopping behaviors both by types of stores and how frequently they purchase.
And there is therefore a focus on price promotion to try and attract those consumers.
Now hopefully as some of the macro factors will improve as this year and next year evolve I think ultimately from our side which is what you will begin to see in the U.S.
but meaningfully see as the second half opens is a stream of innovation that the consumer believes adds value and the value that they are prepared to pay for.
And ultimately it's that I think that is the challenge to brand marketers to win most from the consumer and move away from the price promotion which we would very much like to do but we are not going to see our market shares disadvantaged.
When you look around the world we see similar levels of promotional activity in Europe.
And as Bina said in that context we're particularly pleased with the progress we have made there.
And in some of the emerging markets as competitors perhaps take on strong established positions we see significant promotional activity with more than half in some cases of businesses being sold on promotion and portfolios where it is the low price variance in the portfolios that are being pushed.
But again our approach in those emerging markets is to meet the activity we think we need to meet from a promotional point of view and to try and drive innovation so that we can grow categories and grow pricing and therefore margin.
But I would say that the promotional landscape continues to be intense worldwide.
[Operator Instructions] For our next question we'll go to John San Marco with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Ian can you comment on what your revised 2011 gross margin expectation should tell us about your mid-decade gross margin goals that you've communicated in the past? Yes I think if we had had visibility to the commodity cost increases that we have all enjoyed over the past six months we would have commented on that already.
So I think it's fair to say John that while we continue looking into 2012 and beyond to look for ways of having offset the dollar impact then we rebuild the ratio as we did over the 2008 2009 period that would continue to be our goal.
I do not think that a 65 in that mid-2015 timeframe is clearly a reasonable goal in this environment but we continue to expect to make progress having got the significant impact of 2011 behind us.
And as I also have said a couple of times before we are broadening our focus not just on savings that we can accrue for the gross margin but also what we can do structurally with our overheads to reduce that as a factor and bring that into the income statement as well.
So you'll continue to see progress but 65 is unlikely to be realizable by the mid-2015s and you will see a broader focus on overhead.
You might see I would say of the gross margin something more in the 63 range by that 2015 period.
We'll go to Mark Astrachan with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Couple of housekeeping questions.
First just what is the price of oil that you're assuming in your overall expectations for 2011? And then North America in terms of the difference between volumes being up and sales and profit being down sort of what is the assumption there in terms of the split to get operating profit negative in North America? How much is COGS versus promotional pricing that sort of thing? And then just lastly on Hill's curious your views on whether you can take pricing there or not and just sort of how you think about the opportunity or ability to take pricing in that business going forward especially given the improvement in volumes? Yes.
What I think -- let's start in the order you had them I guess Mark.
First from an oil point of view our estimate at this stage has about $100 for the balance of the year.
Although we have modeled beyond that in fact up around the $110 level and obviously we will manage pricing and Funding the Growth between that depending on what unfolds.
So I guess the answer is in the estimate it's $100 million.
We've modeled $110 and we would feel comfortable if that's where the year ends up.
So I guess that would be one.
Moving to Hill's.
Obviously Hill's and pricing have been a topic of much discussion over the last couple of years.
And clearly having got that business back we think on a sustainable growth footing with the rightsizing with the right innovation with the right pricing we are very sensitive to committing the mistake we made a couple of years ago again.
That said the commodity cost pressures are strong from an agro [ph] point of view.
We have pricing assumed in the third quarter modest pricing.
And pleasingly we have in terms of publicly available information this time a confirmation that others in that business have already announced pricing.
So unlike the last 3 times where Hill's was the follower in that regard -- Hill's was a leader in that regard this time Hill's will be a follower in that regard.
From a North American point of view really what you're looking at is a pickup in top line growth over the back half of the year and sequentially an improvement in gross margin.
And the offset is the investment we intend plan to put behind that business behind that second half innovation stream.
And we'll go next to Ali Dibadj with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> I got a couple of just very quick follow-ups and then kind of the core question.
One on buybacks given Sanex should we be assuming the same amount as you've talked about before? Number two is you certainly addressed North America you addressed kind of the challenges from a promotional perspective.
But versus your expectations you see North America and Asia Africa were worse than expected.
So what was that delta? Was it promotional or was it else -- other things? And the core question is really just around pet and kind of linked to the answer to your last question...
What I'm sorry around? Inc.</strong> Pet.
Sorry pet.
How do you think about it philosophically particularly given the -- it sounds like tougher conditions for you to lead on pricing or raise prices? My guess is as it has been given your company structure the negative 190 basis points from commodity perspective was disproportionately on the pet food business and that has been historically.
And so Funding the Growth is obviously a company-wide initiative and in some sense you could think about subsidizing pet by other pieces of the business.
And how do you think about that? Clearly it's a good business I'm not saying it's not.
But how do you think about that as you kind of work the portfolio of your categories particularly under this very difficult time of commodities and limits on how much pricing you can take.
So two follow-ups and the core question.
There's always a great way to beat the one question rule.
In terms of the buybacks as you know we can comfortably acquire the Sanex business.
Any final determination will be when it actually closes but we would say at this stage that our buyback intentions are basically unchanged.
If we turn to North America and Asia/Africa let me take it in reverse order.
Asia/Africa was basically Russia.
The Russian markets were slow to down in the first quarter which we were not expecting had not modeled.
They have started to come back and we see that business back on track for the balance of the year.
It really is as simple as that.
And without trivializing a topic that we are extremely focused on which is our North American business you kind of hit it on the head which is that it is the promotional activity and the fact that in general people are getting less return in terms of consumption from the promotional activity in the marketplace which is why we want to cycle out of that as we move into the second half of the year with a significant step up in innovation.
And on Hill's whether one thinks about it philosophically or operationally or any other way.
First we are not subsidizing the business.
Secondly actually when you look at the cost breakdown it is not this time disproportionately driven by the Hill's business.
And third we're always assessing the long-term vitality of categories that we are in.
Hill's is no exception but the characteristics of that business are still very sound which is to say that in the main pet owners give their pets the same if not more affection than they give their children which leads to good growth as the demographics change which leads to an ability to absorb price so long as you don't take it too far and which has a good gross margin and has the underlying security of that professional recommendation which as Bina said along with our volume and share is on a bit of an uptick right now.
So those fundamentals we like the turnaround is actually playing out a little bit quicker than we had planned.
And we think Hill's can and will continue to earn its way to private place in the portfolio going forward.
And we'll now go to Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
First question in terms of pricing Ian could you just give us a rundown of where you've taken or announced pricing in terms of categories in the first quarter? And then maybe in terms of the year-over-year change in volumes on promotion versus where you were last year? And then one last one if I can sneak it in on Sanex I imagine your outlook on M&amp;A has not changed and this is really a unique situation but correct me if I'm wrong on that point.
Well let's do it in reverse order Joe just to mix it up.
On Sanex no our view on M&amp;A has not changed.
We actually view the Sanex acquisition as fitting exactly what we look for in an acquisition in the sense that it is strategic that it gives us strength in a business that is important to us and that it is a premium-priced product with a simple and consistent healthy skin positioning and the consumer strength that comes with that.
And we were able to signal our intention to buy that business at the same time as we sell a lower gross margin inherently lower growth detergent business.
So to your point it was the perfect combination of both sides of our strategic equation.
And we will continue to think about acquisitions the same way we always have from which the Sanex acquisition came from.
In terms of pricing I think frankly it would be competitively unhelpful and also take too long to try and take you through our pricing that we have taken by category by geography.
But suffice to say we have taken pricing in all geographies across a broad array of categories.
And we'll continue to do that as the year unfolds in a very planned full way balancing always on the competitive environment the innovation stream we have to support the pricing the consumer's ability to absorb the pricing.
So we are unafraid of taking the right analysis to take pricing on the right businesses at the right time.
And on the promotional line again that varies by geography.
I think it would be fair to say that our promotional activity would be higher in the developed markets.
And frankly if you look at the developed markets year-on-year they are depending where you look modestly higher than last year and in some cases lower than last year first quarter.
But I would say about the same level modestly higher certainly in the United States.
And for our next question from Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
So I guess I just wanted to revisit advertising.
And in the quarter I know that it was up sequentially and you talked about it going up against the higher comp right? But if I go back to when I look at '07 '08 2010 you were north of 11% in advertising.
This quarter you're back down below that in a year where I think we were talking about advertising running higher.
I guess can you just I guess give an updated view on how you're thinking about advertising for this year in light of the competitive environment and things like the shift from promotion to advertising and back and forth and so on? Thank you.
Sure.
I mean our view is unchanged Chris.
Our plan is still to increase advertising double digit.
And we will see advertising go up both on an absolute and as a percentage to sales.
Now in all things one ends up with internal differences across divisions and across categories depending on how much you use the more efficient digital.
And as I've said before in some of those developed markets the use of in-store techniques and vehicles which sometimes hit the gross to net line which is between the gross sales and the net line.
So our advertising focus is behind gaining trial on our innovation.
When we look at the advertising we have behind the innovation we have in our priority markets it is exactly where we would want it to be.
And the phasing on the year as you say is partly related to a year-on-year comp but more related to the timing of our activity and we will see sequential increases in advertising ratio over the next couple of quarters.
We'll now go to Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
So can we just talk briefly about Latin America specifically Brazil and Mexico because I don't think Mexico was mentioned in the press release.
So I guess volume trends in Mexico? And then kind of how you look at those two businesses which are obviously the bulk of your Latin American sales? A look at how you think that is going to progress throughout the year? And then conversely I think people kind of have beaten you up on the March contraction in Latin America but it seems like Asia has more than overcompensated for that margin decline in Latin America so maybe just a question longer term on the sustainability of that margin expansion in Asia? Well let's start with your first question which has to do with Latin America.
I mean the Latin American story frankly is a very simple story.
The volume this quarter as Bina said was up against the highest comp in the prior year.
And the highest comp in the prior year that 8% that Bina talked about was entirely related as it has been in the fourth quarter before to a step-up in activity consciously against the national rollout of the competitive toothpaste business.
And that was predominantly related to -- exclusively related to Brazil.
Going forward we don't have that comparison.
And as Bina said we expect to see over the balance of the year our volume in Latin America at a we think healthy 4% to 5% clip with again appropriate pricing on top taking the organic to double digit.
And obviously in order to accomplish that we have to get appropriate growth in Mexico and Brazil and we are very confident that we can do that.
I'm pleased to say this quarter has started off quite nicely in that regard.
If you then talk to Greater Asia again somewhat consistent with the comment we made about gross profit.
In total we are expecting for the company this year that our gross margin will be basically around the first quarter level and that plays out in Asia the same way.
Our expectation would be depending on what 2012 brings what we could as we did in that 2008 2009 period start to make ratio progress again around the world including Asia.
We'll now go to Joe Lachky with Wells Fargo.
I just have a question here related to SG&amp;A other than advertising.
And I guess in context of your guidance and correct me if I'm wrong here previously just walking through the guidance gross margin you've previously said would be up 30 to 50 basis points and if gross margins stays at the first quarter level I guess that would imply now a headwind of about 70 to 80 basis points.
And with EPS unchanged and unless there's something going on below the operating lines advertising is going to be up.
It appears that the majority of the difference there may be in other SG&amp;A can you discuss maybe the trajectory of that I guess in context of it being up 40 basis points in the first quarter? Yes well as I said on the call -- as I said earlier on the call as we look going forward we see indeed our overheads improving which is to say lowering as a percentage to sales as the year unfolds.
You will remember in the fourth quarter we talked about taking a restructuring that would benefit a couple of geographies Hill's North America and our European business and we indeed have done that and that is going to drive that ratio down.
And as I also mentioned earlier on the call we continue to focus on other opportunities to change our structure organizationally only to do even better than that.
But the difference is that sharper focus on the overhead component of SG&amp;A.
We'll now go to Lauren Lieberman with Barclays Capital.
My question was really quite broadly around pricing.
I know you've talked about it several times already on the call.
But I am just taken by your confidence in taking pricing and I'm still not totally clear on how much it is through the course of the year.
So this quarter was there still any Venezuela pricing within Latin America? Why would single-digits is justified with currency in your favor in that market and margins arguably kind of got a little bit maybe ahead of themselves in '09 when you had taken so much pricing.
So I don't know I just struggle a little bit with why pricing can be so strong as you seem to suggest and also without any resultant impact on volumes? Okay Lauren.
Well I guess if we want to take a step back clearly in the 2008 2009 period we took pricing at levels we had not seen in the prior 10 years for both of those years.
When we think about pricing today and what we have assumed in our plans we're not talking about that level of pricing and we're talking about perhaps a greater frequency of pricing.
I mentioned that we have announced broadly in the first quarter and we have more pricing to come as the year unfolds.
And we say volume in the 4 to 5 area and organic growth moving from the mid-single digits to the high single-digits as the year unfolds.
So that kind of puts a boundary around the pricing that we are taking.
And our view in terms of what we know about the consumer the way we tend to take pricing which is not just you know you see the same package on the shelf and suddenly it's 3% higher it gives us confidence we believe that at the levels we're talking about we can execute them and not prejudice the year.
We'll now go to Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
Could you explain a little bit what you mean by structural overhead changes? It's come up a number of times on the call.
And I'm wondering what sorts of initiatives you would think about as you say sooner or later this will show up in the P&amp;L? Or should we be thinking there is a restructuring that you're planning? No I did not say that.
What we're talking about here is what we did in the fourth quarter which was that we -- I had identified some strategic improvements we could make to our organizational structure.
We offset it against some one-time gains and we will see the benefit as I mentioned earlier as we work our way through this year.
So what we're talking about is working those efficiencies to the income statement as we work over the balance of 2011 and the kinds of things one is talking about I think we have talked before about the shared service center in Warsaw servicing 27 European countries which changes not only how you organize to do it but actually changes the processes you use to get the work done which brings further savings and efficiency.
It's that kind of structural change that we are looking at for the balance of this year and into 2012.
And you will remember we set that after the -- our fourth quarter call and before because we wanted to have a broader view on where we could get savings from given the commodity pressure in 2011.
We'll now go to Javier Escalante with Weeden &amp; Co.
LP</strong> Ian now that during the call you have reiterated your framework about the type of acquisitions that makes sense for Colgate I cannot resist asking you if you could please apply that framework against an holistic relation that is now being rehashed? One that runs contrary to the reduction of Colgate exposure to categories that are commoditizing like Home Care and which is the type of businesses you have been divesting for years? I'm sure you already guessed it.
I'm referring to this notion of a deal where [indiscernible].
I know that it's not your favorite type of question but if you could please comment on that.
Well first Javier let me reaffirm it is not my favorite type of question.
So you are correct.
I think the answer is that we don't comment on those kind of rumors which as you know have been around for a long while and are often self-serving and not helpful.
So the answer is no comment on that type of rumor.
But as to your remark about our Home Care business the truth in life is that when you rank things something comes lost.
And therefore as a matter of strategy our Home Care business has the characteristics that place it as number 4 in our strategic prioritization.
That means I guess like a fourth child we don't love it any less.
And although those categories do tend to have more commodity characteristics than Personal or Pet or Oral Care you can find your way through.
The example Bina gave with fabric conditioners in Europe where innovation can raise price and raise market share.
And some of these categories without being too grand eloquent I mean the emotional characteristic of a fabric softener is perhaps warmer than a bleach-type product that you might use for other reasons.
And of course bleach was the last of the Home Care businesses we divested in Latin America and Canada those years ago.
So we like the business.
And we think we can bring the innovation necessary to compete in that business and we have no intention of selling that business.
We'll now go to Lauren DeSanto with Morningstar.
Yes thanks for taking my call.
My question you spoke a bit about kind of the investment that you are needing to make.
I guess I wanted to get a little bit more specificity to how you're thinking about investment as comparing emerging markets versus developed markets? Specifically kind of tactically how you go about approaching the consumer when you've got a consumer in emerging markets that's got less discretionary spending versus ones in mature markets where you see maybe they're making more trade-offs.
So kind of just any kind of strategically or tactically how you think about going at those consumers to kind of build growth back in both regions? Well Lauren very broad strategic question.
When you talk about the emerging markets which are over half of our sales I'm not sure we need to think about bringing growth back.
I think the challenge is how do you maximize the growth you could get and that is a lot of factors.
I mean first you have to focus on those consumers looking into your categories because we know when they do they don't give up those behaviors even when times get tough.
Then you have to have your products available to those consumers who can often live in the rural parts of the country so that your brand is accessible to them in sizes and at a price point that they can afford when many of them are buying on a daily basis.
You then have to educate consumers to want to buy into an oral hygiene practice which is what we do with our Bright Smiles Bright Futures program.
As you move more up the middle-class you put focus on dental professionals to educate them to the great oral hygiene you can get with higher value higher-priced products and of course bring the advertising pressure often times television at one end as the family still gathers to watch the evening news and maybe digital telephones with text messaging at the other end as you reach the villages that don't have electricity.
Now when you come to the developed market our brands are often well-established well-known.
In fact a recent global brand survey made Colgate the second most loved brand on the planet.
And there you still need advertising to connect.
You very much want to use the professionals whether it's on your Pet Nutrition business or your Oral Care business to recommend but you will have more of your engagement with consumers in digital vehicles and you will have more of your engagement with consumers on the shop floor in the larger retail outlets that those consumers shop.
And then the way we allocate our funds is what does it take to get those jobs done in both of those geographies.
But we think we understand the consumers in both worlds and we think we know how to reach them with our products and distribution and engage them in a conversation about our brands.
We'll now go to Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> You know what the important questions have been asked.
So I'll just make this call a little shorter.
We'll now go to John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Ian in looking at the new gross margin target should we assume -- I guess I want to know how you're looking at it? I'm not asking you to predict raw materials over the next couple of years because they've been so volatile.
But in that assumption are you assuming that the current level is sort of a new base and we grow from here? Do you assume at some point there is a pullback and then you grow it at probably a little bit faster rate off that pull back.
Just give us a little bit of color in terms of how we should map that out over the next four years or so if you have any thoughts? Yes thanks John.
Congratulations on the 80 basis points by the way.
I think our current thinking now is that we would start to build as we enter 2012 but of course that all has to do with where we finally see commodity costs evolving to.
But I guess philosophically and we took that view over the 2008 2009 period job one is to offset the dollar impact of the materials job two is to continue making the progress on the gross margin ratio in order to make sure that you can grow both on the topline and the bottom-line.
We'll now go to Andrew Sawyer with Goldman Sachs.
Just a quick one on growth rates by category.
I think exiting last year I had the impression that Oral Care was going into the mid-singles and Personal Care and Home Care are more flattish.
You're seeing a little bit of reacceleration here early in the year? Can you just give us a sense of whether that's Personal Home Care business is picking up or if Oral Care has gotten stronger in some of the initiatives? And then how should we think about it as we went into the second half as some of your new products come out? Okay thanks Andrew.
Well let's take I guess net sales.
The progression I would say is pretty much the same as the way you laid it out Andrew which is that Oral Care is running in a mid- to high-singles.
I'm now talking the first quarter Personal running in the mid-singles and Home Care not far behind that and Pet Nutrition somewhere between Personal and Home and Oral Care.
So no substantial acceleration.
But our expectation is that those categories the Oral the Personal and the Pet Nutrition will be the ones leading the pack.
And as we said we see and we forecast that that growth rate will start to pickup particularly in the second half of the year.
We'll now go to Jon Anderson with William Blair.
Just a quick update on Dish liquids in the U.S.
I think you talked recently Ian about some innovation going into that market that's designed to impact the trajectory of that business.
Is there any update there? And then also just a quick update on Sensitive Pro-Relief in the U.S.
if there is any? I'll just take your second point.
First there is no material update on Sensitive Pro-Relief in the U.S.
We continue to grow share internationally.
We continue to build professional recommendation internationally.
In fact in some markets we have a strong leadership position in terms of the dentist recommending Sensitive Pro-Relief for a sensitive condition over and above the leading brand previously.
So continue to make very good progress outside the U.S.
and no update on the U.S.
Now the Dish you're right.
We had two main activities in the first quarter of this year.
One was bringing the complete resizing and bottle change of the portfolio to the marketplace which was completed at the end of the first quarter.
And the second was introducing the first and only Dish liquid approved by the EPA to kill germs on dishes as opposed to on hands when you use the Dish liquid as a liquid hand soap which we think is a strong claim in today's market.
Clearly because those two things have just happened pleasingly our market share has grown in the first quarter from the fourth quarter of last year and obviously with the new portfolio at shelf and the innovation we're looking for that to continue as the year unfolds.
So early days some encouraging progress.
And we'll now take our final question from Linda Bolton Weiser with Caris.
I don't think you ever gave very much detailed information about the severance charges you took a couple of quarters ago.
Can you talk about -- are those headcount reductions already all completed or will they be spread throughout 2011? And then how much in cost savings are we looking for from that? And are you thinking of it as an offset to higher commodities or is part of the savings going to drop to the bottom line? I'll start with a strategic answer first.
The answer is yes we are thinking about it as a way of insulating the income statement to the volatility of commodity costs.
That's why we began to set up our efforts in that area the second half of last year and why we took the charge we took in the fourth quarter.
And secondly they're not all completed.
They are working their way through the year.
They are reflected in the reduction in the overhead ratio that I mentioned a little bit earlier and were all built into our budget.
What I said earlier was that we continue to look for additional opportunities that we may choose to work through the income statement and take as the year unfolds.
But the general principle is that it is a focus that we have taken over the past year and one which will continue given the environment that we are in.
So I thank you for all of your questions.
We look forward to reporting again as the second quarter draws to a close.
And thanks to all the Colgate folk around the world who make it happen.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Co.
Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and is being simulcast live at www.colgate.com.
[Operator Instructions] At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Bina Thompson.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Elizabeth.
Good morning everybody and welcome to our second quarter 2011 conference call.
With me this morning are Ian Cook Chairman President and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller; and Elaine Paik Treasurer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
And these statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements on Forward-looking Statements.
We will discuss organic sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and divestitures.
A full reconciliation with the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the Press Release and is posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.colgate.com.
We're pleased with our results for the second quarter which exhibit acceleration from the first quarter across the lines of the P&amp;L higher volume in organic sales growth coupled with a greater increase in advertising operating profit and EPS growth.
And looking specifically on organic sales growth we see particular momentum in our Emerging Markets which as you know represent more than half of our sales worldwide.
Organic sales growth in these markets was strong high single-digit and was the highest quarterly growth in a year.
Our long-standing presence deep distribution and leading market shares in this part of the world provide a strong balance to the continued macroeconomic challenges which we and our competitors face in the more mature markets of North America and Europe.
Given the continued rise in commodity costs worldwide gross margin declined in the quarter.
And as Ian said in the press release we still expect gross margin to remain at first quarter levels for the full year as pricing will play a greater role in the second half of the year to offset cost increases and as we continue to realize accelerating savings from our Funding the Growth initiatives.
Additionally we're beginning to see progress on our overhead line.
Fixed cost within SG&amp;A in the quarter declined by 30 basis points which freed up money to invest in advertising.
And as we've told you on previous calls we periodically undertake projects to further reduce fixed expenses and these initiatives are generating strong savings.
Again as planned advertising in the quarter was up absolutely and as a percent of sales in support of new product launches around the world.
We expect even more new product activity in the second half here in the U.S.
in particular and that will be backed by continued healthy increases in advertising.
As previously announced we've closed on the acquisition of the Sanex business in the second quarter and expect that we will complete the divestment of our Colombian detergent brand tomorrow July 29.
From a company-wide ongoing operating perspective the 2 transactions should offset each other so the income statement for the balance of the year should be unaffected.
However as we go through the divisions I will outline for you the effect in Europe and Latin America in terms of sales and profits.
The one-time gain from the sale of detergent should be approximately $130 million after-tax.
And in-line with our efforts to continually lower costs and become more effective and efficient our current plan is to reinvest this gain in support of various business realignment opportunities throughout the Colgate world.
Implementation of these initiatives will begin in the third and fourth quarters and we expect that they will fully offset the gain.
And these initiatives should yield ongoing savings beginning mostly in 2012 in line with our historic rate of return for similar projects of 30% to 40%.
So let's turn to the divisions starting with North America.
We're pleased with our North American results in light of slower than historical category growth rates and continued very aggressive competitive activity.
As noted in the press release our all-outlet toothpaste share is up on a year-to-date basis.
And in addition our dish liquid market share reached 2009 levels in the most recent period almost 38%.
As you may recall there was a low-priced new product entry in this category 2 years ago and we're pleased that we have regained the share which was temporarily lost.
Our share momentum in these and other categories should continue as we launch some exciting new products in the second half of 2011.
As you read in the press release we're extremely excited to be introducing Colgate Optic White toothpaste and toothbrush in the third quarter.
Colgate Optic White toothpaste represents a breakthrough for Colgate in the whitening category having taken many years to develop this technology.
Colgate Optic White toothpaste contains the same whitening ingredient as whitening strips for whiter teeth in one week.
The Colgate Optic White toothbrush contains both whitening cups and polishing bristles.
Colgate Optic White toothpaste and toothbrush will be supported with an extensive integrated marketing campaign including both direct in-store and out of store support.
We're also excited to be launching Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief a product with proprietary technology that provides sensitivity relief to consumers that is faster to the nerve for lasting relief.
This will serve as an excellent companion to our existing dentist office arginine product in the U.S.
that provides patients instant relief from sensitivity in the office while we continue to work with the FDA to obtain approval for the consumer product.
In the dish category we're very excited about the relaunch of our Palmolive Sensorial dish liquid line.
A key element of this is a new fragrance Palmolive ultra pomegranate.
Pomegranate is a growing trend in the marketplace and Sensorial is a key growth driver in the Home Care segment.
This new product should help to continue the previously mentioned rebound in our overall dish liquid share.
And we're also very excited about a new launch in the Personal Care category Softsoap bar soap.
As we look to expand the Softsoap equity beyond our successful hand soap and body wash businesses the launch of Softsoap bar soap is designed to further establish Softsoap as a mega-equity within the Personal Care category.
Softsoap bar soap fulfills the unique whitespace in the bar soap category providing consumers with highly experiential fragrant bar soaps that complement our hand and body washes that should drive brand and category growth.
Additionally over 1/3 of American consumers use both bar soaps and body wash and most of those consumers buy the same brand of bar soap and body wash.
So now we can provide Softsoap consumers with bar soaps and body washes in their favorite fragrances.
So looking ahead volume is expected to be up low single-digit for the third quarter and full year 2011 with organic sales growing modestly for the third quarter and down slightly for the full year.
Operating profit is expected to decline mid-single-digit for the third quarter and double digit for the full year.
Turning then to Europe.
This region of the world remains very challenging from a macroeconomic point of view as you are all aware.
However while cautious we see some encouraging signs.
Market growth has recovered slightly overall and specifically for Colgate our market shares are quite strong.
Our shares are up on a year-to-date basis in both toothpaste and manual toothbrushes with a record share in toothbrushes.
Our mouthwash shares are holding steady and we expect momentum to build in this category as we roll out a complete relaunch of our mouthwash business during the balance of the year.
You saw that despite gross margin and commodity pressures we were able to increase our advertising support.
This is as a result of some of our initiatives that generate savings in our overhead and fixed expenses line.
Initiatives such as shared services which we have reviewed with you in the past and which serve as model for other regions of the world.
And as mentioned in the press release Colgate Max White One and Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief have both met with good results across the region.
Strong media and in-store support helps drive our toothpaste share in France to over 20% year-to-date with the most recent reading at 20.9%.
In Italy our share is up over a point on a year-to-date basis to 23.4% with the most recent read at 23.9%.
And in the U.K.
where a major competitor has just launched a new line of toothpaste our share climbed over 50% in May as we supported both our sensitive and experiential offerings with a mix of media and promotion.
Our toothbrush business in Germany is doing particularly well driven by the GABA business.
The combined Colgate and GABA business is up over 1.5 to 17.7% year-to-date with the most recent read at 18.4%.
And in the U.K.
we reached a record toothbrush share in May of 33.3% largely driven by our higher margin premium business.
And as you read recently we completed the purchase of the Sanex business on June 20 and are very excited about this as we go forward.
This business has distinct positioning around healthy skin with strong market share and is growing and we are now busy integrating the business.
So while we are mindful of the challenges we face from a macroeconomic standpoint we expect results in Europe to accelerate in the second half from the first half.
Volume should increase modestly for the third quarter and full year with organic sales down only slightly.
Including the recent acquisition of Sanex third quarter volume should be up high-single digit and full year volume should be up mid-single digit.
Operating profit including Sanex is expected to increase mid-single digit for the third quarter and full year as well.
Turning then to Latin America.
This division delivered excellent results despite continued heightened competitive activity in certain markets in the region.
A consistent flow of relevant new products at all price points supported by increased advertising contributed to the strong performance while continued effective media and merchandising solidified our base business.
Year-to-date market shares have increased in the higher-margin oral and personal care categories such as toothbrushes mouthwash bar soaps deodorant and hair care.
In toothpaste our regional share is holding at over 77% of the market year-to-date with records achieved in Venezuela Central America Chile Peru and Paraguay.
In Mexico where promotional activities still remains extremely high our shares are still over 80% year-to-date with an increase in the most recent reading to 83% while our nearest competitor dropped to the lowest level since the beginning of the most recent heightened competitive activity.
Strong performance from our higher-priced Colgate Total brand has driven the share gains while aggressive activity from our competitor seems to be focused on the value tier.
In Brazil another hotly contested market our toothpaste share remains over 70% year-to-date with an increase of 30 basis points in the most recent reading.
Support from the Brazilian dental profession continues to grow with leading and growing positions in brand recommended most often for toothpaste toothbrushes and sensitive toothpaste.
In toothbrushes our regional share is up over half a point on a year-to-date basis to almost 40% of the market maintaining our number one position across the region.
In Brazil our share is up over a point on a year-to-date basis driven by the higher margin Premium segment where strong innovation and in-store activities have countered aggressive competitive activity.
In Mexico we've held our record high share of over 40% on a year-to-date basis with a reading of almost 42% in the most recent period.
Again this has been achieved despite heightened competitive activity.
In mouthwash our share is at its highest so far 32.2% on a year-to-date basis with our most recent share read at 33% closing our gap with a leading competitor from almost 30 points to under 10.
Expectations are that our share will continue to increase as we roll out a complete relaunch of our Colgate Plax line through the balance of this year.
So we're very encouraged with the momentum in this business.
Looking ahead we expect volume to increase mid-single digit for the third quarter and full year with organic sales growing double digit for both periods.
Operating profit is expected to grow high-single digit for the third quarter and full year.
Greater Asia/Africa.
This region continues to offer great growth opportunity.
Volume and organic sales growth was strong across the region.
And of particular note the 2 largest countries in terms of population India and China both enjoyed double-digit organic sales growth.
Our toothpaste share across the region is at almost 40% and our toothbrush share is at 35% on a year-to-date basis.
Now as you'd expect we pay particular attention to both India and China.
Our innovation teams on the ground look to gain deep and relevant consumer insights in both markets in order to bring to market new products with unique benefits.
A good example from China is our recent launch of Colgate Plax Fresh Tea.
This product has a mild flavor of green tea with a hint of mint and capitalizes on the learning that Chinese consumers like the flavor of green tea but dislike a burning mouth feel.
As a result of this and other new products in the Plax line our mouthwash share in the key cities of China is growing strongly with the most recent share at 30%.
And of course in both India and China we are also rolling out global bundles such as Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief toothpaste and toothbrushes as well as Colgate Max Fresh Ice toothpaste.
In the toothbrush category we are launching our Colgate 360 Surround toothbrush as we are in other parts of the world.
The success of this product has resulted in record toothbrush shares in Malaysia Taiwan Turkey and Vietnam.
And as you saw in the press release new product activity has been strong in the Personal Care category as well.
Several years ago we launched a shower gel line under the Palmolive brand called Thermal Spa in Russia which met with great success.
Taking the learnings from that launch we are now launching the same product in Turkey where we already have a strong share approaching 40%.
So looking ahead volume in Greater Asia/Africa is expected to grow at least mid-single digit for the third quarter and full year and organic sales are expected to grow double digit for both periods.
Operating profit is expected to grow double digit for the third quarter and full year as well.
And turning to Hill's.
Our Hill's business continues to improve with solid organic sales growth in the quarter.
As you saw pricing was slightly positive as we followed competition judiciously working to somewhat offset the steep price in commodity costs.
Pleasingly here in the U.S.
we see renewed growth in the vet channel which has been somewhat sluggish during the economic crisis.
And along with growth in the category comes growth in veterinary recommendation which is a very important component of our business model at Hill's.
One factor driving growth in the vet channel both here in the U.S.
and in Europe is our Vet Exclusive product.
This was launched in March of this year in the U.S.
under the Science Diet Healthy Advantage brand supported by vet health care team sampling in-clinic awareness centers and pet owner trial rebates and new pet kits.
A similar product in Europe launched about a year ago Science Plan VetEssentials is meeting with similar success.
And we're very excited about all the new products being launched this quarter some of which you saw referenced in the press release.
The first is Science Diet Ideal Balance.
Natural pet food is the fastest growing segment within the category as pet humanization and the inclusion or exclusion of specific ingredients are increasingly driving consumer behavior.
Hill's Science Diet Ideal Balance is all about combining the power of precise advanced nutrition with natural ingredients to create a unique product offering in the marketplace.
Hill's Science Diet Ideal Balance has fresh chicken as the first ingredient no corn or artificial flavors and fruits and vegetables.
It emphasizes that good nutrition is not just about the ingredients.
It's about having the right ingredients and perfect balance for the lifelong health of pets.
And as you'd expect the launch of this product will be fully supported with in-store displays to drive trial store-associate education PR for word of mouth and full digital engagements via search and social media.
The second new product is Science Diet Age Defying 11+ for older cats.
Senior cats are the largest and fastest-growing cat population segment.
This translates to a population segment of nearly 36 million cats experiencing 5.3% growth versus total cat population rates of about 0.10%.
The launch of Hill's Science Diet Senior Age Defying 11+ reinforces Hill's legacy of life stage nutrition while enhancing a position of strength and leadership in the aging segment with 2 differentiated offerings: Mature Adult Active Longevity and now Senior Age Defying 11+.
Each product addresses the unique nutritional needs of the growing demographic segment.
Launch of the Senior Age Defying 11+ formula is supported by a very powerful reason to believe as the formula fights the signs of aging in just 30 days.
Consumers will see visible results as cats become more interactive and playful more alert and agile and experience fewer litter box accidents.
And the third new product is Hill's Prescription Diet y/d Feline Thyroid Health.
Feline hyperthyroidism is the most common endocrine disorder in cats.
Therapy options are often expensive and inconvenient.
Least expensive and most common option is daily medication which can negatively impact the relationship between the pet owner and their pet.
Hill's Prescription Diet y/d Feline Thyroid Health is the first and only food that manages feline hyperthyroidism as a replacement to other treatments.
The launch of this transformational product represents a new category within therapeutic foods and underscores Hill's as an innovation leader in nutritional science.
So we're very excited about all the activity at Hill's and look forward to a strong second half.
Volume for the third quarter and full year is expected to grow modestly with organic sales growing mid-single digit.
Operating profit is expected to grow mid-single digit for the third quarter and full year.
So in summary a solid quarter particularly given the challenging macroeconomic times we all face in the Developed Markets.
We're particularly encouraged by the momentum we see across our businesses with volume growing in every division.
Our pipeline of new products is as full as it has ever been and we are excited about the many launches coming up in the second half of the year.
And as we've told you these will be supported by increases in advertising and should result in further increases in our already strong market shares.
So we look forward to sharing our results with you as we progress through the balance of the year.
Elizabeth that's the end of my prepared remarks and now we would like to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions]  We'll take our first question from Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> I was wondering if you could just -- and you may of already disclosed this -- talk a little bit more about Sanex in terms of kind of what the growth rates have been over the past few years and kind of how the margins compared to your existing portfolio over there? Well the -- I think first of all we closed.
We're happy.
We see Sanex as very much being on strategy for our Personal Care business and we look forward to seeing the benefits from Sanex in the second half of this year.
And if you look at the second half of this year with Sanex in our portfolio we are expecting to see volume for the balance of the year about mid-single digits and Sanex would be about 1.5 of that and that's continuing the rate of growth we have seen on their business.
And from a margin point of view it is accretive which is why we like the business and we like the brand.
Inc.</strong> And there's room to kind of expand that or is it just kind of riding what it...
No we very much see expansion room Bill.
I mean I -- we shouldn't get too excited about that until we go through all the planning and execution but the potential for expansion is two-fold.
Number one expansion of geography within Europe and maybe beyond.
And secondly expansion into other Personal Care categories.
And as we have received the business and begun to fully understand the richness and the heritage of the brand we've been delighted to find a very well-developed innovation and new product portfolio that we can move with quite quickly.
So geographic and category expansion but again we will do it in a methodical studious way over time.
We'll take the next question from Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
I have a couple of questions around pricing.
First can you discuss the key reasons in product categories where you actually implemented additional pricing during Q2 and then also in July post the quarter end? And also your initial thoughts on if higher pricing is actually going through and the consumer demand reaction to it.
And then specifically in the U.S.
it looked like pricing came in a bit below your goals in Q2.
So can you just talk about the pricing environment versus your expectations in the promotional environment in the U.S.? Sure.
And thanks for the single question.
Two things then.
In terms of pricing let me put it this way that in -- by the third quarter we will have in place about 80% to 85% of the pricing that we have planned for this year.
And all of that pricing is announced and is either at retail or making its way to retail around the world and has been accepted by the retail trade and where at retail so far accepted by the consumer.
One business we were particularly sensitive in terms of our pacing on price was Hill's.
And in fact the Hill's pricing goes into effect here in the United States in the third quarter.
And although we often don't like to say this in that regard we have been a follower and are the last major pet nutrition manufacturer to bring pricing to the market.
And I would add that the pricing on the Hill's business and indeed the pricing we are taking around the world is substantially lesser than the pricing we had to take in 2008 and 2009.
So so far broadly -- globally we feel very good about the fact that the pricing is announced accepted and out there to the tune of 85% has not been debilitating from a consumer point of view so far and we think Hill's pricing has been judiciously taken.
Now here in the United States and I think we've been quite consistent about this on prior calls we continue to find ourselves under some promotional pressure.
And we said for our U.S.
business it was going to be a year of 2 halves a basically flat first half and then we would see a recovery in the second half driven by innovation.
Bina has now laid out quite clearly what the principal aspects are in the innovation area.
Again well received by the trade and the only point of focusing on the innovation is that we have taken pricing in the United States.
But that largely in the third quarter behind the innovation stream that we are bringing to the marketplace.
And in some businesses dish for example our pricing is following the leading competitor in the category.
So the U.S.
was always going to be a second-half proposition and that included pricing but the pricing in the U.S.
again is announced and accepted and it is behind the innovation stream that is just now going to market.
And I would add that our U.S.
business in the month of July is off to a very healthy start substantially outpacing the first months of the prior 2 quarters so we do think the plans we have in place should be effective across the back half of the year.
And we'll take our next question from Mark Astrachan with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I guess question on gross margins.
Given the pricing that has been implemented or will be implemented I would've thought gross margins would have been up a little bit more over the back half of the year.
I guess I'm sort of curious on puts and takes there and obviously if you could go through your bridge that would be helpful in the second quarter.
But in terms of what's embedded in the numbers on a go-forward basis is there some anticipation of seeing some of that pricing being reinvested into the business beyond what you said about disposal? Well of course if we talk about gross margin unless the reinvestment were in price that would come below that line.
But let me start with the roll forward from the second quarter of 2010 and then let me comment on the balance of the year around margin but focusing on our savings and pricing activity.
So the gross profit second quarter 2010 as you know was 58.8%.
We picked up in the second quarter of this year 0.2% from pricing.
As we had indicated on the first quarter call our Funding the Growth savings contribution was a positive 1.9 percentage points 190 basis points which was an acceleration from the first quarter as we have said it would be and pleasingly is ahead of the step up we had in the second quarter of 2010.
So I think Colgate people around the world consistent with our value of continuous improvement continue to find terrific savings opportunities with our Funding the Growth program.
And again we expect that to continue and to continue to step up quarter-on-quarter as the year unfolds.
Material prices were however a net negative headwind of 3.2 percentage points 320 basis points leading to a net negative of 130 basis points.
And then you had some other changes mix and the like leading us to the 57.4 on the year.
So the central issue in the second quarter is that while our Funding the Growth savings were excellent they were not adequate to offset the step up in material costs and our pricing contribution was modest.
Now when we last spoke when you think about the entire year we said that we thought material prices would be up between 10% and 13%.
As the year has unfolded we are very much towards the upper end of that range in terms of the increase in our cost of goods.
So while we expect the Funding the Growth savings to provide increased contribution to gross margin and we expect pricing to play an important role in offsetting the commodity costs still we think the reasonable outlook for the year is to close the year at about the first quarter level as Bina said.
And while we will see improvement quarter-on-quarter we think the best we can do this year which frankly was the objective we had balancing volume with pricing coming into the year and that is to offset the dollar impact of the cost increases we face and we'll return to rebuild the ratio in 2012.
And we'll move on to the next question from Nik Modi with UBS.
Just -- you hinted at or briefly talked about more cost saving opportunities.
Just curious if you can give us a little bit more detail on exactly what you have planned and any type of magnitude quantified at all? Well I think the answer actually Nick is probably no.
But let me reframe again and give you some indication on what we're planning.
You will remember we started talking towards the end of last year about the fact that given the volatility in commodity costs in our world today we were increasing our focus on organizational realignment and restructuring opportunities that we could work through the income statement.
You will remember in the fourth quarter of last year we did some of that on a lesser scale and obviously with the opportunity of the gain from the sale of the detergent business we very much have had active initiatives underway to utilize that one-time gain to set us up for 2012.
So as Bina said we will be -- we expect to be using that gain to fund realignment and restructuring actions which are likely to benefit 2012 given the implementation timing and as was the case with the last 2 restructurings we have done as a company will provide a rate of return in that 30% to 40% range.
So you get a sense of the return we are expecting on that investment.
Of course we don't want to reveal or discuss prematurely what the specific actions might be.
Suffice to say structural and realignment will be the 2 key operating words.
And of course Ian at some point I guess when you have kind of broadcasted that to the organization you'll provide us more details on exactly what you guys are planning? We absolutely will because we think some of the things we have are operationally quite inventive and will be meaningfully important for the company going forward.
So we will certainly be talking about it once we're in a position to do so.
The next question today comes from Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Just 2 quick ones if I could.
First I'm trying to square your comments regarding the pricing to support gross margins in the back half of the year and your outlook on volumes.
Because it seems like if you put the 2 together you're anticipating price increases along with volume acceleration in the back half.
Is that because you've got easy compares? Is that because of innovation or a combination of the 2? And then secondly when would we expect to see possibly the pricing in North America to turn positive? Well let me talk a little bit about the volume first.
It is an acceleration of volume.
And that is driven I guess largely by 2 things.
One a continued -- a continuation of the momentum we have in Latin America where we have been able to take pricing and accelerate volume.
And we expect that to continue behind the innovation stream that we have.
And of course as I mentioned a little bit earlier the innovation that we have in North America which we expect to lift the volume in the second half.
So it's continuing at the pace we have had with continued growth in Latin America or accelerated growth in Latin America and the United States behind innovation.
And the comparisons are a little bit gentler as you say year-on-year.
And relative to pricing in the United States I mentioned earlier that we really are taking our pricing in the United States in the third quarter.
As we have said before we now shift from hopefully perhaps a more promotional environment to an innovation-led environment from our point of view.
And it is our expectation that the pricing in the U.S.
will turn positive in the second half of the year primarily in the fourth quarter.
We'll take our next question from Wendy Nicholson with Citi.
My first question has to do with India specifically and then sort of the Greater Asia/Africa region more broadly.
But I know -- we can track the India results because they're publicly traded but the margins there have been kind of generally trending down.
And I'm wondering whether that is simply hey India is struggling with commodity prices the same way everywhere else is.
Or whether you're anticipating a lot more competition there.
But the trend more broadly has been that your margins in Greater Asia/Africa have also trended down.
So it's the whole region.
But I think Bina your guidance was actually for stronger profit growth in the back half.
So I'm wondering these places where you've got really big market shares and really well-entrenched franchises is India sort of indicative of another region where you're coming under pressure? Or am I reading too much into it? Without being discourteous I think you're reading too much into it.
The top-line performance in that part of the world is extremely strong particularly in both of those markets and our leadership shares continue and we make progress.
When you look at India specifically it is largely the commodity costs where we source many more of our raw materials in country from local suppliers.
And sometimes those costs don't follow world trends exactly up or down.
So India is specifically hit by that.
And we are taking pricing there as we are elsewhere.
And as Bina said we expect to see progress over the back half of the year in that area from a gross margin point of view.
Based on the pricing sticking it really is not a competitive issue.
Okay.
And then more broadly and I don't think you talked about this but just currency generally obviously being I think a bigger tailwind this year than you would've expected and yet the guidance for earnings to still be in that mid-single digit range that's great.
But is the implication that "Hey if there are currency gains to be had on the EBIT line you will choose to reinvest those?" Or would you flow them to the bottom line such that we could expect better than let's say 5% EPS growth? I think our strategic intent Wendy when we came into this year was to make sure we invested behind regaining momentum accelerating momentum on the top line.
And I think unless it were unreasonable to do so that our stated intent for the balance of the year would remain that.
In other words if foreign exchange became more favorable than our second half projections and we picked up discretionary funds compared to our estimates estimates which by the way see advertising in the second half continuing to step up from the first half both absolutely and as a percent of sales.
But I think as a matter of strategy it would be our intent to increase our investment hold to the guidance we gave and make sure we secure the outcome we came into the year trying to secure which was accelerating the top line growth of the company.
We'll take the next question from Chris Ferrara with -- I'm sorry from Per Ostlund with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Maybe just following on to Wendy's question on India but turning it to Latin America specifically.
It looks like you're basically holding your Latin America sales outlook consistent with what you said last quarter though the operating income outlook might have been inched down a little bit.
I think you went from kind of a double digit to high-single digit despite very high teens very strong profit growth there this quarter.
Is that really just sort of the gross margin pressure that you're seeing everywhere else? Or is there something more regionally specific going on there? No I think the gross margin pressures in Latin America are the same as elsewhere.
And if we look at the balance of the year we see the year as Bina said for Latin America are basically ending up where we ended up in the first quarter.
I think the thing I would say coming back to Wendy's point is that one of the things we stated was to rebuild the top line acceleration is that we wanted to reinvest behind the business and we have some meaningful increases in advertising across the back half of the year as I said.
So that's the strategy in Latin America and that slightly affects the EBITDA margin as you say.
But we think it's the right decision for that very important and good growth region of the world.
We'll take the next question from Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
So I wanted to go back on the currency question right? And I guess the question is more backward-looking than forward-looking.
But has currency been materially better than you expected it to be in the first half of the year? And I guess has advertising been exactly what you thought it was going to be too? Because my sense is advertising as a percentage of sales for the first half hasn't gone up very much or it hasn't been -- on a dollar basis it has right? But not as a percentage of sales.
And currency has been very strong.
So I guess where has that gone? Has it been -- has it been more in a difficult pricing environment? Well the -- I think the real drag on the first half has been the gross margin.
And in terms of our advertising we were actually very pleased with the 140 basis points reduction in gross margin that we were still able to take the advertising up albeit modestly on prior year on a ratio basis.
And I think the thing that shifts in the second half of the year is we get progressive improvement in the gross margin because our Funding the Growth savings step up because the pricing now sticks in and contributes and that will allow us to shift up our advertising spend behind the business and looking prospectively as Wendy asked.
Should currency become more favorable in the second half of the year than we are estimating and we have discretionary funds then I think strategically we would continue to put it behind the advertising.
But when we look at the pacing of our activity we're actually quite happy with where our advertising is and where it is going to be going forward.
And Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital has the next question.
Can you talk about the launch of Sensitive Pro-Relief in the U.S.? Where is it going to be priced? And is it going to be called the same thing once the arginine product gets out of the FDA.
I guess I'm kind of wondering how you manage a brand that is different in different parts of the world? Well I think -- very good questions Connie.
But I think in the end what you manage is the benefit.
The benefit is relief from sensitivity.
We believe in the arginine technology obviously which is why we have taken it globally.
And we have the ability and are actively using that with an in-office product with professionals.
Pleasingly the product that we have in the Sensitive Pro-Relief that we are introducing has some proprietary technology that allows the active which is potassium nitrate to speed its way to the nerve to offer faster relief which is the same benefit that arginine delivers around the world.
And so yes the answer is we think it's important to be in that space with exciting advanced technology.
We think Pro-Relief is the right name for it given the nature of the benefit it can provide.
It is priced at the sensitive segment pricing which is to say premium.
And when we do secure FDA approval we will bring the arginine technology into that bundle as a further improvement and then it will be a companion to the in-office product which hopefully by then professionals will have come to like and see the benefits that it provides.
And I think it's a matter of marketing from the consumer's point of view there is no likely stumble with that kind of an approach.
We'll take our next question from Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> So just want to get a little bit of clarifications.
So if you look at your expectations you had going into the quarter you missed on volumes in Europe Asia Africa -- organic sales and operating profit everywhere but in Latin America.
So what changed specifically? If you can kind of just aggregate the level of change.
Was it the competition was tougher or didn't raise prices as you'd have thought? Was it the macro consumer? Was it in some sense the elasticity of some of the price increases? So what was the surprise? Well I don't think as we worked our way through the quarters there were -- good morning Ali by the way -- that there were many surprises.
I think the biggest headwind we had to contend with as a company were the commodity costs.
And when you talk about pricing with the exception of Latin America the pricing even though 80% to 85% of it is accepted and moving to retail or already at retail now our pricing was not a significant factor in the second quarter.
I must say the market growth rates in Europe and the United States consistent with macroeconomic trends in those geographies continued to be low and in the United States specifically lower than they have been historically.
And that was also a factor.
And there's no question in Asia there was a factor in Russia where we saw declines in our business and our category which seemed to be corrected as we come into the third quarter with Russia beginning to come back.
But if I look at the world those were the kind of changes we had to deal with.
I think we have dealt with them and delivered we think good momentum into the quarter.
And I think we feel good about where the balance of the year will be.
Again back to the themes of Funding the Growth in pricing and the innovation stream we have behind which we are putting more advertising.
Inc.</strong> So it does sound that there are -- I mean because your expectations were different the way you delivered that there were surprises or changes.
And it sounds like they're more macro driven given the category growth that you're describing.
If that's not right correct me.
But can you talk a little bit about the drivers of the category growth? So how much of it is competition? That certainly was an issue a little while ago.
Is that still an issue in terms of the inability to take pricing as one would have been able to? Is that curtailing a little bit or is it just that look the consumer is strapped.
We all hear about it.
We all know about it.
And that's been the struggle.
So just a little bit more color if you could given you guys -- do have such breadth in terms of seeing what consumers are saying.
Yes it depends Ali I'm afraid.
There is no sort of one general universal answer.
I think in Europe there is no question our consumer data shows us that in some respects consumers are simply being more frugal.
They are buying less frequently.
They are buying less volume when they do buy.
And they're making that little squirt or squeeze last a little bit longer before they go back for the next repurchase.
In the United States I think it is more what has been the commercial intensity in the marketplace which we have talked about often as people scrap for pieces of a smaller pie.
And interestingly in the United States -- again I'm talking only our categories but we have basically seen private label shares here in the United States either flat or coming down which may be another way of thinking about the promotional activity that is coming from the branded goods.
Unlike the last time we were on a call together I think it would be fair to say around the world that you are beginning to see a diminution of competitive activity.
You are certainly beginning to see people taking pricing both announced and at retail and that's what gives us along with our innovation stream the confidence in the second half of the year that we can take pricing in a world where people are doing the same keep our Funding the Growth focus and therefore create the funds to put behind the innovation stream and the growth acceleration and momentum that we expect for the balance of the year.
We'll take our next question from John Faucher with JP Morgan.
Just following up on the Latin American operating profit.
I think you guided for a sequential deceleration and I'm just trying to figure out is this due to the potentially the Colombian business? Or is it really due -- if you look at the past couple of quarters and it's a little complicated because of the comps more than 100% of your operating profit growth has been coming from Latin America.
And so I guess is this also a sense that as the pricing goes through and as Funding the Growth goes through you can just take some of the pressure off of the Latin American business in terms of the extent that it's been sort of carrying the rest of the profit growth given the tough developed markets? I wouldn't put it quite that bluntly.
But I think there is no question in the second half of the year that the broad-based step up in Funding the Growth benefit and broad-based benefit from pricing is going to increase gross margin around the world and give us a better return.
And then on the flip-side consciously for Latin America we are taking our advertising spending up quite sharply to step up the volume growth in that part of the world.
So yes I think pricing sticking and Funding the Growth continuing to build around the world sees us putting even more money behind the healthy investment we have in Latin America.
Okay so following up on that just one quick question.
So there's no real change in terms of sort of the pricing piece of the algorithm in Latin America? It's really just sort of what you're doing with some of that extra whatever gross profit you would have gotten from it? Exactly so.
It's a discretionary investment below the gross profit.
Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets has the next question.
LLC</strong> I guess I just wanted to talk about the portfolio where it stands.
Obviously with the inclusion of Sanex and then selling the laundry business in Colombia I mean are there more opportunities for you to exit tail brands in the portfolio reallocate resources? I think if there are they are modest.
We basically focus on the 4 categories that we have which obviously Sanex fits very nicely into.
And as I have said before if you rank things then something always has to come last.
Like children that doesn't mean you love them any less.
It just means they happen to be last.
So I don't think from a strategic point of view there is anything of substance that we would say we might think about divesting.
We like the businesses we have and we think we can make progress with them.
LLC</strong> Okay and just for housekeeping.
Just on Sanex I know that it closed on the 20th of June.
Was there any inclusion of sales in the quarter? I'm not sure if you mentioned that earlier in the conference call? I think someone may have mentioned it Jason but the simple answer is no.
No contribution.
.
We'll take our next question from Javier Escalante with Weeden &amp; Co.
LP</strong> A question for you about Funding the Growth which to a large extent is a little bit of a black box for us because we don't know what goes into it.
And I know that you guys have said that is an accumulation or an aggregate of small programs.
But backing to what you guys have disclosed and it's about $150 million in savings year-to-date your target is about $300 million to $600 million in savings in Funding the Growth.
So it would be great if you could please provide details on the most important new activities that will be kicking off and step up these Funding the Growth going forward.
Because the shared service program is already in the base and it's about the 100 basis points and 190 basis points.
But it seems that you should be growing -- I mean generating savings that gross more over the 200 basis points in the balance of the year? The -- what I -- I guess my [indiscernible] will be that the projects that are most important are the ones that are yet to come.
But let's take a step back.
Funding the Growth has been a hallmark of this company for a long time.
Funding the Growth had started as basically savings programs unaided by technology which today is enabled by SAP around the world which gives us visibilities interdependencies connections communication abilities that we never had before.
And amongst our 3 values of caring global teamwork and continuous improvement that combination of continuous improvement and global teamwork means that as we identify opportunities we share them quickly and we share them broadly.
And I think we have a pretty good track record of delivering against our Funding the Growth commitments.
And as I said earlier we were really quite pleased with the 190 basis points of margin gross margin contribution in the second quarter which was a step up from the first quarter and the second quarter of last year.
And captured by Funding the Growth is literally everything that goes into gross margin which are the direct costs of the product whether that's substitution adaptation renegotiation aggregation any of these kinds of initiatives.
And then we also have an aspect of Funding the Growth today that isn't in gross margin where we focus on the indirect materials.
That's everything that doesn't go into the product and that's everything from telephones to computers to cars to lab supplies et cetera et cetera.
And we are applying the same principles enabled by SAP in those areas.
That's what Funding the Growth is and that's what we manage on a year-in year-out basis.
And I feel confident of saying that we will be within the $300 million to $600 million range that we have been for the last several years.
But that's Funding the Growth.
Now the other areas of focus which are going to be covered by the one-time gain from Colombia are those structural and realignment opportunities like the shared service center we have talked about in Warsaw.
And those we will make transparent once they occur and the impact on the organization is clear.
LP</strong> But the one thing Ian -- and I know that is probably difficult to flesh out each individual program but savings -- $600 million in savings year-over-year-over-year without taking restructuring charges I -- from what I see even looking at your peers in Europe is pretty unique.
Nobody has done this.
So I guess -- I don't want you to reveal the secret sauce but if you could just enumerate what is something specific that it can amount to $600 million this year and then next year is going to be incremental $600 million.
It's quite aggressive and I guess I am trying to gain confidence without knowing too much details about it.
But again remember not all of it goes into the gross margin.
A large part of it does because we give that out.
But Funding the Growth can go into the efficiency of how we buy our media.
Funding the Growth can be in the trade spending that we execute around the world where we find a greater or better return on investment.
If you talk about activities that go into the cost of product different laminates different plastics different weights different constructions.
I mean all of these areas are under constant inspection and technology improves and changes year-on-year.
And that we are able to take advantage of perhaps quicker than some because we have access to it so quickly with an SAP system that tracks and drives the entire company.
And again look at our track record in terms of our ability to deliver against it.
I think you see it in the numbers.
Our next question comes from Joe Lachky with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Looking at the big picture you -- I guess you mentioned you're beginning to see a reduction in the level of promotions.
But I guess longer-term if you look over the past 5 to 6 years we've seen a clear upward trend for promotions domestically in all oral care categories.
And now oral care has always been competitive and I imagine you'll continue to see competitive pressure especially internationally.
You mentioned Mexico Brazil.
But with all the ongoing acceleration and promotions over the long term how do you view the future profitability of oral care? Terrific.
The -- that's one piece of an equation and oftentimes that's fueled by people that may want to take a run at a business.
But again behind a strategy and a category like oral care and why we like the category is you really can build loyalty with a consumer with a product that they put in their mouth and their kids' mouth to deliver a benefit that can be endorsed by a professional who independently assesses the performance of your product.
And if the performance of the product is superior and seen as a real benefit by the consumer there is the opportunity to raise price.
And even during the worst of the sub-prime in Brazil for example Colgate Total which is a significantly premium-priced product in that country was the brand that led the share progress in the country.
So the characteristics of the category are such that if you deliver a benefit and you have the loyalty we have and you have the professional recommendation whilst the promotion is there the strength of a brand and your ability to premiumize the business over time in a way that consumers think and see they're getting value leaves us very comfortable with the future prospects in that category.
We'll now hear from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Ian and Bina just wondering if you can compare and contrast Mexico and Brazil.
Because just looking at other people's results it's been really a mixed bag very mixed bag.
And if you can talk about just the consumer in each place and then also the competitive dynamic.
Are they the same or different? Well Mexico is a little bit closer to the U.S.
than Brazil and therefore the macros that are in the U.S.
more directly affect Mexico than Brazil.
I guess that would be one observation.
In our kinds of businesses they tend to be fairly similar with perhaps the one exception if you look at per cap consumptions that the Brazilians culturally seem extremely advanced in terms of health and wellness behaviors and the use of those kinds of products which is obviously to our advantage.
But in all other respects I would say they're pretty similar.
They have a modern trade.
They have a down trade.
We're strong in both.
There are the same mix of multinational and local competitors and we have very strong and bouyant and growing businesses.
So we don't see an enormous discrepancy between a Brazil and a Mexico as indeed I have read some have commented.
Okay.
And the competitive environment in each in oral care has it eased at all or accelerated? The competitive environment is what it is.
Which is to say if you look at the new entrant in Brazil we are still seeing high levels of promotional activity.
We are still seeing distribution limited to the more modern trade.
The distribution in the down trade which is about 20% of the category is still in the low double digits which is not well-advanced.
And our recommendation levels and market shares as Bina said continue to go up.
In Mexico we were actually very pleased to see the results of the latest share read.
And there again you see heightened promotional activity.
You see a brand that is not pro-health leading the share they have and you're seeing up to 75% of the business on promotion all of the time.
So again back to the answer to the prior question we think our focus on innovation with a loyal brand professional recommendation and the kind of advertising support we have behind the business will see us well.
We'll now hear from Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> I have a follow-up question on pricing.
I think your guidance for the third quarter for the U.S.
is that volume would be up low-single digit and organic growth up modestly.
Not sure the difference between the 2 but they sound close.
And I'm just wondering why we're not seeing the pricing coming through.
Is it because you expect promotional activity a hike in promotional activity to offset the pricing? The -- basically you have seen what the pricing was for the first 2 quarters.
You will see pricing move to basically flat in the third quarter and then into positive territory in the fourth quarter.
That's a combination of taking price increases which as I said will take effect in the third quarter thereby mainly benefiting the fourth quarter.
And that's beginning to switch our focus behind the innovation and trying to move away or see less of the kind of promotional activity that has been a factor in the first half.
So flat positive in the fourth quarter which we think is a responsible evolution as we bring the innovation to market.
Inc.</strong> Just to clarify.
I think you said that the price increases were out there at retail in July.
So you expect heightened -- your promotional activities to still be up in the third quarter offsetting that pricing? What I meant was the pricing in some categories was on the shelf in July.
But in other categories when you announce it in July it doesn't get to the shelf until September.
So what I was saying is the pricing is out there by which I mean it is out there with retailers.
And as I said it is either at retail or moving to retail and the lead-lag between announcement is between 10 and 12 weeks.
Our next question comes from John San Marco with Janney Capital Markets.
I think a similar question was asked earlier about what changed during the quarter.
But specifically I want to ask this question with respect to the North American region.
Can you just talk about that operating profit decline we saw in North America which I think was 10% lower than what you had expected and what changed in a short 3-month period to drive that shortfall? Well the -- in terms of our North American business the real I guess influence was as it is elsewhere in the world but it tends to reach North America quickest was the pressure from commodity costs that we were unable to offset with pricing because of the promotional environment.
So I think that was the biggest factor on the quarter for North America.
We'll take the next question from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Was there a big difference between the sell-in and the sell-through in the quarter in the U.S.? Because I know this category is not great but directionally it seemed like the sell-through data was much better than the reported sell-in that you guys had today? Shares have been good in the U.S.
Obviously with the category gross rates being what they are you these days have a little bit inventory at retail than has been the historical norm.
But I would say nothing dramatic Bill.
Okay.
So it wasn't that like there was a lot of inventory at the beginning of the quarter and you kind of work it down through the balance? No.
I mean I'm not putting it forward in that sense.
I am saying that with the slowdown in the categories given the lead times in the United States with the kind of lifts that you're seeing I just think it's a fair observation to say there is a little bit -- in the first half there has been a little bit more inventory at retail than you would see normally.
I think that's worked its way through the system.
And as I say I'm quite happy with the market shares on our U.S.
business consumption.
Perfect.
And just one more if I could.
Was there -- if you look at the gross margin maybe you don't really look at it this way but was it disproportionally -- the hit just pushed your way to the Home Care business.
Because if you look at the segment profit changes it seems like -- Europe obviously was the biggest decline year-over-year.
I know that this is about half home care.
I mean is there a difference in your pricing ability in that business and was that the bigger driver of the gross margin decline? I would say if you look at our business the biggest impact and I think it's for everyone has been in fats and oils in terms of the way they affect your bath soap business.
That's clearly one.
And then yes I think it would be fair to say although thankfully petroleum is staying where it is right now at least it seems to be that your home care businesses do tend to be more impacted because of that.
And I think it would be fair to say that there is lesser pricing power in Home Care than you would find in the oral personal or pet nutrition businesses.
Okay great.
And then just one last one.
On share repurchases do you have an outlook for the back half of the year? Yes it's still going to be in that 1.8% to 2% range.
We'll now hear from Linda Bolton Weiser with Caris.
Just kind of a longer-term question.
Colgate has always hit kind of a targeted gross margin expansion goal long-term and not so much operating margin which I understand the reasoning behind that.
But a lot of investors like to see operating margin expansion and there's a lot of companies even in the consumer products sector that believe they can expand their operating margin over a long period of time.
Can you just give us some color on how we should think about that? Is it that once we get top-line growth stronger then maybe we will see some leverage of SG&amp;A down the road and you can expand that margin or -- I'm having trouble picturing a 25% 26% operating margin which is where you guys would have to be headed toward the very high level of operating margin? Yes the -- I think Linda the focus we put which is back to this Funding the Growth thing is the gross margin.
And I think we said on the last call that given the volatility we had seen in our world that we were targeting something like a 63 gross margin by about 2015.
So that is the goal that we are driving against on the gross margin side.
Now on the overhead side with the comments we made this morning.
Obviously we have been assessing for some time our ability to realign reorganize and restructure in order to get overhead relief recognizing the volatility in the raw materials and all of this to allow us to invest appropriately behind our businesses and deliver our long-term double-digit EPS growth.
So I think that's how you should think about it which is to grow a business 4 to 7 volume top line.
We seek to increase our gross margin reduce our overhead to put funds behind the advertising and deliver long-term double-digit earnings per share growth.
So that's the kind of framework I would suggest to you.
And our next question comes from Jon Andersen with William Blair.
I'll keep it brief here.
I was wondering if you could just provide a little more color on the pacing of the new products that you mentioned earlier for the second half those being Optic White and I guess the Palmolive relaunch and the Softsoap bar soap.
And then the ad spending behind those -- that relaunch of those or those new products should we expect advertising spending to be up absolutely and as a percent of sales in the second half? No I mean if I take a world basis let me start there we expect our advertising to be up absolutely and as a percent of sales in the second half.
If we take the United States which were the products that you quoted there all of those products go to market in the third quarter different months different dates within those months.
And I think in the United States what you will see as the distribution builds the bulk of the advertising support you will see in the fourth quarter.
And there again the United States will follow the world which is to say up absolutely and as a percent to sales.
And with no -- I'm sorry I was just going to turn the call back over to you.
We have no further questions in queue.
Thanks so much Elizabeth.
Well thanks everyone for joining us this morning.
We very much enjoyed telling you about the second quarter and we look forward to coming back and talking with you once we complete the third quarter.
And again a special thank you to all the Colgate folks out there who get all of this done.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Co.
Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and is also being simulcast live at www.colgate.com.
[Operator Instructions] At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Bina Thompson.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning everybody and welcome to our Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
With me this morning are Ian Cook Chairman President and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller; and Elaine Paik Treasurer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
And these statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements on Forward-looking Statements.
We will discuss organic sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and divestitures.
We will also discuss gross profit margin operating profit net income and earnings per share excluding  the impact of the one-time items described in the press release.
A full reconciliation with the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the Press Release and is posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.colgate.com.
Now as Ian said in this morning's press release we are indeed very pleased with our strong topline performance this quarter.
As you've seen it's been accelerating consistently throughout the year.
Volume is going nicely and the pricing we had said we will begin to implement is contributing to sales as well.
Market shares are increasing in much of our business.
Globally our shares are up in toothpaste manual toothbrushes mouthwash bar soaps body wash household cleaners and fabric conditioners.
Category growth rates continue to be robust in the developing market and has stopped their decline in developed markets.
The even sale split within the fast-growing emerging markets and the more mature markets provide the good balance for our business.
As you saw our gross margin decreased and was down more than we had projected when we spoke to you last quarter and this was due to 2 factors: Number 1 as we told you we would we were able to realize price increases although due to the competitive activity there were not as strong as we had forecast.
And secondly at the same time raw material cost increases were greater than we had forecast coming into the quarter.
While commodity prices in the market have come off their highs there is a lag between market movements and the time when they flow through our income statement.
On the other hand we've seen very good progress in reducing our overhead expenses.
This has been a renewed focus for us over the last year and it is beginning to pay off.
Encouragingly with a gain from the sale of our Laundry Detergent business in Colombia beginning this quarter we have implemented and are continuing to implement a number of business re-alignments and other cost savings initiatives around the world which should generate even further savings as we head into next year.
We expect this to continue to provide the funds to increase advertising behind our exciting new product launches as well as our base business.
And our balance sheet remains strong.
Return on capital increased to 36.8% and as referenced in the press release our working capital declined as percent of sales.
So let's turn to the divisions starting with North America.
As we have told you much of the new product activity here in the U.S.
is happening in the second half of this year.
We're very encouraged by the success of all these launches across categories which is reflected in the good volume performance in the quarter.
In addition we grew organic sales for the first time in four quarters.
First and foremost is our launch of Colgate Optic White toothpaste and toothbrush which have met with great success.
As you know Colgate Optic White toothpaste is a unique formula which provides whiter teeth in just one week.
The companion toothbrush has special whitening cups and polishing bristles.
Our year-to-date toothpaste share referenced in the press release is at 35.8% which is the market-leading position.
And our share for the month of September climbed to 38%.
In September both the toothpaste and toothbrush were the number one selling SKUs in their respective Oral Care categories.
We also launched Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief toothpaste with a companion toothbrush and they have met with success as well.
In the Personal Care category we told you last quarter about the introduction of Softsoap brand bar soap.
This new product has driven our bar soap share to a 12.6% in latest period.
And we've been active in the Home Care category as well in terms of innovation.
Our new Ultra Palmolive soft touch dishwashing liquid is doing very well driving incremental share.
On a year-to-date basis our overall dish liquid share increased 50 basis points.
And this month we shipped another variant in our Sensorials line Ultra Palmolive Sensorial Pomegranate.
Since fragrance continues to be a key growth driver for Home Care products this product builds on this insight by offering the fresh scent of pomegranate while providing powerful grease-cutting action.
So we're very excited about all this activity which will of course be supported by a full range of in- and out-of-store activities.
Looking ahead then to the fourth quarter.
Volume in North America is expected to grow modestly with organic sales growing at the same pace.
Operating profit is expected to be down double digit as we step up the pace of our advertising.
Turning to Europe South Pacific.
This region of the world remains very challenging from a macroeconomic point of view.
However we do see modest category growth in Oral Care while the Home Care category remains more sluggish.
Our market shares are up in toothpaste and toothbrushes for both the Colgate and the GABA businesses.
Our overall toothpaste share is at 33.2% year-to-date up 40 basis points with our most recent share at 33.5%.
Our manual toothbrush share is at 21.2% up 90 basis points with the most recent share at 22%.
And our good share performance overall is in the face of continued heightened competitive activity.
In the U.K.
for instance both our leading toothpaste and toothbrush shares are up on a year-to-date basis.
GABA continues to perform well and every year has delivered results ahead of the expectations we set out at the time of the acquisition.
As you know premium and relevant new product launches are critical in this environment.
We're very excited about our new toothpaste which is launching this and next quarter across the region.
Colgate Total Pro Gum Health.
With an aging population gum problems afflict an increasing number of consumers.
Studies in the U.K.
show that three out of four people may suffer from gum problems but not aware of the consequences or treatment.
So our integrated marketing campaign behind the launch both educates the consumers and the profession on the problem and provides the solution with Colgate Total Pro Gum Health.
In Personal Care we are launching higher-margin new products as well.
The relaunch of Palmolive Experientials line of bath foams and shower gels in a new higher-impact packaging should command higher average selling prices and margins.
Although the line is just rolling out across the region several countries are posting incremental share gains of between 1 and 2 points.
And we continue to be very pleased with our acquisition of the Sanex business.
We are working through the integration as we speak.
Overall market shares are solid and they too as you saw in the press release have benefited from successful new product activity.
So looking ahead to the fourth quarter volume across Europe South Pacific is expected to be at about third quarter levels with organic sales flat versus a year-ago quarter.
Operating profit is expected to be flat to up modestly.
Turning then to Latin America.
We're delighted with the continued excellent momentum in this region as stated in the press release market shares are strong and growing.
The macroeconomic environment across the region remains favorable despite some recent strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
In toothpaste our year-to-date market share is at 78.1% with a most recent read of 78.5% and this strong performance is in the face of continued competitive activity.
In Mexico our share remains above 80% year-to-date.
In Brazil our share is at 70.4% year-to-date with the most recent share at 70.8%.
And importantly in both of these key markets we've seen very good results in the premium end of the business.
This should continue as we launch our premium priced Colgate Luminous Whitening toothpaste in both markets.
The trade acceptance has been remarkable and we have achieved distribution in record time.
In manual toothbrushes our market share is at 40.8% year-to-date up one full point with a most recent read at 41.4%.
In Mexico we've gained half a share point in the face of competition's heavy promotional activity.
And similarly in Brazil we've gained share and strengthened our market leadership position.
Our mouthwash shares across the region are up 3.5 points to a record 33.4% narrowing the gap between our closest competitor from over 20 points in 2008 to less than 10 points year-to-date in 2011.
Our strategy of premiumization and adding value for the consumer is working in our Personal Care business as well.
Protex Advanced Clean is helping to further consolidate our leading bar soap share across the region.
Capitalizing on our long history of partnering with a profession we have showcased this premium price variant at dermatological and pharmacological congresses gaining endorsement from both.
Our regional share is 29.6% on a year-to-date basis up almost 1.5 points from the year-ago period with the most recent share at 30.3%.
So looking ahead to the fourth quarter.
Volume in Latin America should grow low to mid-single digits with organic sales growing at least high single digits and operating profit is expected to be up low to mid-single digits.
Greater Asia/Africa.
As elsewhere in the world new products have helped to deliver the solid volume and organic growth in Greater Asia/Africa.
Toothpaste shares across the region are approaching 40% and our manual toothbrush shares are close to 35%.
We have maintained leading toothpaste shares in the large markets of China India and Russia.
And in Turkey we achieved market leadership a record share of 30% in the month of August up almost a 0.5 on a year-to-date basis.
In South Africa toothpaste share is almost 50% and we have witnessed very strong growth behind Colgate Total which as you know is priced at a premium.
In the toothbrush category the launch of Colgate 360° Surround has grown our share in Malaysia by 150 basis points to 36.3% and to a record 29.3% in Turkey in a latest period.
In South Africa we continue to grow market share and extend our leadership on the back of strong growth not only from our premium-priced Colgate 360° toothbrush but also for our Value Colgate Double Action toothbrush.
Mouthwash shares continue to grow in virtually every market as we expand the Colgate Plax portfolio.
Fresh Tea in China Complete Care and Sensitive in India and Ice in other countries supported by impactful advertising and in-store program.
Across the region our market share on a year-to-date basis is up three full points to 17.3% with the most recent share at 18.3%.
So looking ahead to the fourth quarter volume in Greater Asia/Africa is expected to grow mid-single digit in the quarter with organic sales growing modestly faster.
Operating profit is expected to decline modestly as we step up advertising behind our new product launches.
And Hill's while we're encouraged with the longer-term prospect for Hill's in terms of relevant new products increasing market shares and continued global expansion results this quarter were impacted by several factors unique to the current environment.
Specifically here in the U.S.
the specialty category has been under some pressure.
And most of the growth has been coming from the natural segment where we were under-represented.
However one of our latest new product launches Ideal Balance which focuses on proper nutrition in addition to natural ingredients is gaining good and wide acceptance but it is still in the early shipping stages.
Secondly some of our customers have instituted inventory reduction programs which have temporarily affected our shipments to them and we expect these two factors to dissipate over the next few quarters.
We're excited about our new product pipeline as well as new Digital Media program which should drive growth.
As we launch new products Digital Media has become an increasingly important part of the picture.
For example as part of the Science Diet Ideal Balance Canine launch we partnered with Pet M.D.
to develop a unique tool to educate pet parents on the importance of proper nutrition through the creation of MyBowl.
PetMD is the most consulted source for Global Pest health information.
When consumers visit MyBowl they learn the essential features of well-balanced meals for dogs and how they help ensure optimal health.
The goal is to show dog owners what makes a properly balanced nutrition and help them better understand the dog food label.
And of course properly balanced nutrition is the selling proposition behind Hill's Science Diet Ideal Balance.
Again while it is early days Ideal Balance is off to good start.
Distribution is ahead of forecast consumption is growing and building momentum.
And most importantly the product is bringing new household into the Science Diet brand.
Another new program about which we are very excited is the partnership with Trupanion pet insurance company to co-market its first pet insurance which provides coverage and discounts for feeding therapeutic and preventative nutrition.
Coverage will be provided for all therapeutic foods featuring Prescription Diet which is the market leader in this category.
And as well premium discounts will be given for feeding Science Diet Healthy Advantage a wellness food sold exclusively through the veterinary channel.
This partnership should help increase pet owner traffic to the vet clinics and grow the category.
So looking ahead Hill's volume in the fourth quarter is expected to be about even with the year-ago quarter with organic sales growing modestly.
Operating profit should be flat to slightly up.
So in summary we are pleased with the accelerating momentum in our top line and with the excellent share results we have seen around the world.
This is particularly encouraging in a challenging macroeconomic environment in the developed parts of the world coupled with continued worldwide competitive activity.
Our ability to take pricing has not affected our volume growth and our broad portfolio product offerings at all price points has served us well in both developed and developing markets.
We look forward to sharing our results for the balance of the year.
And now Anne I would like to turn it over to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Ali Dibadj from Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you a little bit about the gross margin movement that we saw in the quarter and now your guidance.
I mean negative 264 I think on a recurring basis is at least for us the worst we've seen going back to the 90s.
And so I want to understand how that -- what that means.
Is that shift away should we think about your company? Because it seems like you're much more linked to commodity now than we have seen before.
And some of that seems to be tied to the inability at least at this point to be able to take less pricing to offset it.
So as we go forward how should we think about -- because that was not the Colgate that we know being such margin degradation -- gross margin degradation as we've seen this quarter.
Okay Ali well let me do what we customarily do here which is to give you the roll forward so you can understand how the quarter played out.
And then let me talk more broadly about what we plan and expect going forward.
So if you go back to the prior year.
Prior year gross profit was 59.4.
We got benefit from pricing in this third quarter of some 80 basis points.
Funding the growth which is the Colgate you know continued at our historical rate with a benefit of 2.1 points 210 basis points.
But we were hit in the third quarter with material prices to the negative of 530 basis points 5.3 points and then a minor 0.2 in the others leads you to the 260 basis points reduction.
Clearly more of than we had expected.
At the heart of it was the sharper run up in material prices.
And as we all know from looking at the spots in the market environment those prices for certain key materials seem to be tapering off.
And as we enter the fourth quarter and 2012 understanding we haven't completed our 2012 budgeting process initial indications are that the pressures from commodities will abate.
On pricing we thought that the 2% pricing that we took was reasonable in the quarter.
We had to adjust for some competitive activity but we expect that pricing to continue in the fourth quarter at a slightly higher level.
And in fact in the fourth quarter expect and forecast to fully offset the dollar impact not the ratio impact but the dollar impact of the cost headwinds that we face.
We have not seen consumer resistance to the pricing we have taken.
In fact if I were to tell you about the Optic White toothpaste in the United States which is at a 40% premium to the leading whitening toothpaste in the market today that has not hindered that brand getting to almost a 5 share in the first full month.
So if you get the value proposition right the consumers will take the pricing.
So it really was in this quarter the sharper than expected run-up in material prices.
And you're right we have often said that you can't fully offset that from a pricing point of view in the quarter because there is a lead lag.
The other thing I would comment on is something I think we have been talking about for a while and certainly Bina mentioned in her remarks and that is we've been looking at ways to streamline our cost structure and get our overheads down A for inefficiency and if so right and B recognition of what has been somewhat volatile commodity market this year and we saw our overheads down by some 60 basis points this quarter on a percent of sales basis.
And we have used the gain from the Colombia detergent sale to fund additional organizational and realignment activities which we expect to benefit to 2012 same kind of ratios we have had historically 30% to 40% rates of return and we think that is a positive aspect looking forward into 2012 beyond what we expect to recover on the gross margin.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So one of the differences I guess this time around was the last time I'm in this pricing line and the last time earnings in 2008.
You took 250 or 300 basis points worth of pricing in the last two quarters that year where you're facing similar commodity cost.
So I guess the core longer-term question I'm asking is does the competitive environment that you're now facing limit your ability to offset commodities as you have done in the past? And so are you more of a commodity levered company than you used to be in the past given that dynamic? The answer is no we are not.
But it is all down to a question of pacing and we have very much locked this year to balance the pacing of our pricing with the growth in the top line.
And we think with the 5% volume growth that we got that that was a relatively good balance.
The pricing will continue and will step up in the fourth quarter and we will see what happens next year.
So it is pacing and balance not an inability to take pricing through and frankly the third quarter material prices ran off my head a forecast and you simply cannot in the quarter in question take pricing that quickly.
But the answer to your question is no.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And so even in North America in terms of pricing where we've seen 9 consecutive quarters looks like 9 or 10 consecutive quarters of negative pricing you think the pricing gets even better there? And I'm not talking about Optic White obviously because I think that will show up in volume for you.
Do you think the pacing of pricing gets better there too? I'm using -- I know where it folds.
I was using the pricing more to make the point of no consumer resistance if you get the value proposition right.
In North America we said that the first half of this year had been by nature of the category more in-store and therefore price-related.
And that we would shift to an innovation-led growth in the second half.
And whilst the pricing was negative in the North America it was substantially less negative as you know than the prior two quarters and we are forecasting further improvement as we go forward with the innovation stream now behind the business.
And we'll go next to Alice Longley from Buckingham Research Brokers.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions.
Did you intend pricing to be better in North America in the quarter? And your guidance for the next quarter indicates no pricing as well.
I think when you gave guidance a quarter ago you suggested for positive pricing for North America for the second half.
The pricing in North America is improved in the third quarter.
And as I just said in answer to Ali we expect further improvement in the pricing in the fourth quarter as reported.
We have taken list price increases in North America.
Indeed we have taken list price increases around the world.
And frankly all of the pricing that we have planned for 2011 is now announced and either at retail or on its way to retail.
The last time we spoke we said that was more on the 80% to 85% range so all of our pricing is now out.
Inc.</strong> I think your guidance for the fourth quarter is for North America's volume up modestly and sales also up modestly.
So I guess my point is are you offsetting the price increases with incremental promotional spending? Or where are the price increases are showing up in these numbers? In the launch period with new products with all of the in-store trial generating programs you have that shows up in pricing.
So if you take the analogy of good cholesterol bad cholesterol the pricing-related activity in the third quarter is related to trial-building measures behind an innovation stream and that's what we'll continue.
Inc.</strong> Okay then my other question's about Latin America.
Could you just tell us what you're hearing down there in Brazil in terms of the potential for wages? This is a macro question.
I'm just wondering if you're hearing that wages are in fact going to be going up in January in line with government sort of the add [ph] or whether there's any backing away from that? And whether you're expecting that to create even better growth for you there next year than this year? Don't have any conclusive position on that Alice.
We obviously are aware of the discussions that are underway and clearly we can manage it we can manage it either way.
We'll go next to Joe Lachky with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just want to get back to the gross margin thing really quick.
Regarding the commodity price that you saw in this quarter I'm a little bit surprised why you didn't see it coming to an extent given the lagging commodity prices from when the prices change and when it flows in the income statement.
So I'm just wondering if you could maybe explain what changed between your last guidance and the quarter you just reported? Frankly some of the commodities ran up quicker than we have been supposing.
There were indications that some would tail off and they did not and it really is that simple Joe.
LLC Research Division</strong> And so that 6-month lag decompressed in our minds as far as the time period it takes for commodities to flow through.
And the final question as far as on hedging would there be any consideration of expanding hedging outside of Pet Nutrition to maybe offset some of the volatility? Yes the answer on hedging Joe is no.
There are no real hedging markets so you are essentially buying long and we don't choose to speculate in that regard.
And I think it's fair to say looking forward that while of course material cost will continue to be up year-on-year that the rate of growth we now see is clearly abating.
And that is what we -- I think with much more solid data to hand that's what we now expect going forward.
We'll go next to Wendy Nicholson with Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> In the short term my question centers on sort of this strategy about delivering double-digit EPS growth in 2012 given the currency swing.
And I'm just wondering is if you look back at kind of the price you're paying now in 2011 with only mid-single digit earnings growth some would say that that's because you had pushed too hard to meet your target for double-digit earnings growth back in 2009 when currencies were working the wrong way.
So I'm just wondering are you thinking about sort of your long-term earnings goal and your strategy towards meeting that target with respect to currency and how you look at 2012? Yes obviously we look at it quite broadly.
And as we said in the release we have not by any means completed our budgeting process.
But what we have preliminarily seen is a few things that I think give comfort in the number one from a commodities point of view there does seem to be a real tapering off which means that the commodity headwind one faces will be lesser than we have seen in the past.
That's a good thing.
Two from a top-line point of view we like where we are from a growth point of view both volume and organic.
In other words with the pricing.
And of course the pricing we have begun to take this year without regard to anything we may choose to do next year will roll over and provide a very solid benefit in 2012.
And I think very importantly and central to the way we've been thinking about it in terms of sustainability for the longer-term is this whole area of cost structure where we saw the 60 basis points this quarter and you are going to see more of that as we are doing with the Colombian HDD divestment to continue to lower our overhead as a percentage of sales as a additional aid to lowering cost not just continued expansion in gross margin.
And foreign exchange as you know has bounced around a little bit.
Where it sits today doesn't give cause for concern in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair but I just want to push back to the teeny bit.
Because when I think back and this is sort of a longer-term thing but over the last five or six years the way Colgate has been able to put up double-digit earnings growth so consistently by my math is that you had a real structural change in your EBIT margin and you have gone from 20 to almost up to almost 25.
That's a humongous change.
And when you look at the specific regions Asia Africa EBIT margin doubled during that timeframe.
The U.S.
went from 21 to 29.
I mean those are structural changes.
I know you have your restructuring program there's some product mix issues divestitures and all that kind of good stuff.
But I can't believe you're assuming top line growth is really going to accelerate relative to the level you put up over the last 5 years.
And so in the absence if you will of putting up another 500 basis points of operating margin expansion in other words going from the kind of the 23 24 up to nearly 30 I just don't see how you can argue that you can put up double-digit earnings growth over the next 5 years.
I just -- I mean maybe you can have the recovery off of a investment spending-heavy 2011 so maybe there's a snapback on some of your profit margins.
But long term do you see a 28% 29% type EBIT margin for Colgate 5 years out? Okay well the -- we started with 2012 and we're now in 2015.
Research Division</strong> I'm just sort of thinking long term.
So 2012 okay I'll give you all the cost savings and the recovery and the snapback and the great market shares and that's awesome.
But still when people think about the long-term outlook do we really think you're still a long-term double-digit earnings growth story? We do.
And we see it still in 2 areas and we believe in them.
The first is gross margin expansion which again as we look at 2012 and beyond we see ourselves continuing to deliver and the additional benefit on a continuing basis of reducing the overheads as a percentage to sales allowing us to invest responsibly behind the business and deliver responsibly and sustainably double-digit EPS growth.
Our most recent strategic brands even in the environment we're in would support that.
And we'll go next to Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I will try not to belabor the pricing thing too much.
But I just want to focus more on Hill's.
And I think if you go back a couple of years ago Hill's and the whole Pet category started to price the consumer of the market and it really hurt volumes.
And I'm trying to figure out are we seeing that again? And with some of the key commodities in pet food coming down is there an opportunity to roll some of that back over the next few quarters to avoid that happening again? I don't see it Bill this time.
I don't see it.
The pricing that the whole industry has taken.
And as you know we were the last to take this year has been much more modest than the sharp run-up we had in the '08 '09 period.
Our market shares in the vet channel which is the recommender who most resists pricing because it makes them nervous about recommending continues to strengthen and our recommendation levels continue to be very high.
Basically for Hill's this quarter was about the two things being erased.
We have not been competing effectively in what had been the fast-growing natural segment.
We now have entered with an ideal balanced product that marries nutrition with naturals and it is starting well.
In fact our market share in the Premium segment excluding the naturals  has continued to increase.
So we don't believe in the specialist channel with the professional recommendation that we have hit a ceiling on pricing with Pet Nutrition.
And that's not what our analysis shows for this quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay so there's actually some room to continue to take some pricing as needed? As needed.
We'll take our next question from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
Coming back to the gross margin question and the savings part.
Based on your margin walk it seems like Funding the Growth at least on the gross margin side is trending at about $300 million per year which is the low end of your long-term target.
You mentioned that you could do $300 million to $600 million so I wonder to what extent the missing part here was that the savings are not coming in as fast as you guys expected and how does it look that pipeline of savings going in 2012 and whether these other saving programs the synchronization of demand and supply is already played and is already generating savings.
Sure.
I guess two ways to answer.
Number one the Funding the Growth program is as vibrant and rich as it has always been even preceding the synchronization benefits that we will start to see in 2012.
Indeed the Funding the Growth benefit in the third quarter of 210 basis points was as strong as we delivered last year.
And I think we have said fairly consistently that our Funding the Growth benefit on the margin line tends to build across the year and that is what we are continuing to see in 2011 as we saw in 2010.
So still a rich area still one we can mine.
And on top of that the synchronization benefits to come which are not necessarily only related to gross margin but will be additive.
And then the other thing we keep trying to make the point on is this focus we have had now for over a year on the overhead side of the equation finding ways to get more efficient structurally so we can lower overhead as a percentage to sales.
And that relates to some of the restructuring activities that we are taking from the one-time gains we had.
And also we have a very big focus with Funding the Growth on so-called indirect spend which is about half of what we spend which is often captured in the overhead lines.
So I think you have to think about it in two ways: One a continued rich pipeline of opportunity with Funding the Growth and synchronicity on top; and two a continued focus as we saw with a 60 basis points this quarter on streamlining and making more efficient our operating structure so we can continue to lower overhead as a percentage to sales.
And from both efforts therefore generate the funding for growth investment and earnings return.
And we'll take our next question from Joe Altobello of Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Just two quick questions both sort of related.
First the margin compression we saw in Greater Asia/Africa and Europe/South Pacific was that all commodity-related or were there other FX issues that were involved there? And then secondly given their recent move in FX what's the likelihood and timing of additional pricing internationally to offset that? It was commodity pricing.
The transaction effect of ForEx was negligible in the quarter.
So it was commodity pricing.
And as I said in response to an earlier question we expect our pricing to continue to increase in the fourth quarter and relative to foreign exchange impact from a transaction point of view as we customarily have you would expect us to take pricing in those developing and emerging markets to offset that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just one last one on the overhead.
Looks like the 60 bits move was pretty impressive this quarter.
It sounds like that's sustainable.
Should we expect another 60 bits next year or is it opportunity to actually accelerate that next year? Well I guess the way I'd phrase it at this stage Joe is we took that 135 after-tax gain and put it into initiatives that we are in the process of implementing and we'll pick up about a 30% to 40% rate of return into 2012.
We'll go next to Chris Ferrara of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Obviously over time you guys have been one of the best at kind of slowly and deliberately shifting resources towards your more attractive businesses in the portfolio.
But I guess given what looked like divergent trends between Oral Care and non-Oral Care or more specifically household and particularly in developed markets I guess how much thought do you give to any acceleration of that portfolio migration? Or is that too short-term a view? That may be with respect too short-term a view.
If you -- and this is what I was talking to Ali about earlier in terms of balancing pricing with volume in the overall growth of the company.
If you look at the third quarter we have now I think accelerated the top line growth of the company.
And if you break it down by categories we're growing Oral Care organically high single digits and we are growing Personal and Home Care mid-single digits.
So you're seeing a shift towards the Oral Care business but we are getting good growth in those developed markets on our Personal Care businesses and Home Care businesses as well.
And they remain important parts of the portfolio.
But we're outpacing on Oral Care as you would expect.
Research Division</strong> And just on an unrelated note are you taking FX-related pricing yet in your emerging markets or is it too early for that? It's too early.
But as I said in response to an earlier question from a transaction point of view as opposed to translation you know well Chris this is something we do.
We do quite regularly and I think we do quite well.
We'll go next to Jason Gere from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess I just wanted to talk about the de-stocking.
I know you mentioned a little bit of that in the Hill's business.
But can you just talk maybe about the POS sell-in versus sell-through in the U.S.
and Europe and maybe kind of putting into context some of the categories that are growing a bit softer such as Home Care.
So where retailers may be managing inventories a little bit tougher these days.
I think in the Hill's case frankly it was relative to the buying ahead of price increase and simply inventory adjustment at the end of the quarter.
I don't think it was more than that.
If you look at our categories on a local currency value basis as we have said before you're seeing the North Americas and the Europes of this world growing at a 1% to 2% level and that compares with the high single digits we are seeing in the emerging markets and that's been true for a reasonable time and I think it's what we are likely to see going forward.
If you dig into categories in specific the growth of our private label is way off what it had been in the 2008 2009 year and we are seeing private label share overall come down.
And I think when you look at our inventory position in terms of balancing these sell-in with the sell-out we're in a well-balanced position aggregate U.S.
consumption is ahead of category growth so far this year.
So we don't see any particular category focus inventory-wise by retailers other than the adjustment at the end of the quarters which given different financial years tends to happen at different times.
And we'll go to Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Did you see any pullback in the promotional intensity especially in Oral Care given some of the rises in commodity costs? It depends.
Some places yes.
Other places no.
And I wouldn't contain the point to Oral Care.
I was just down in Mexico and you look at the marketplace and some competitors have stepped up promotionally significantly across categories while reducing media.
And you see that in certain markets around the world.
In other markets you don't see that.
But I wouldn't limit that comment to Oral Care.
And I -- yes I wouldn't limit that comment to Oral Care.
Research Division</strong> Is there any difference in behavior between the guys who are reporting in euros versus the guys reporting in dollars in terms of competitive intensity? Because obviously in the last month or so the euro is probably going to help them a little bit more than the dollar is going to help the other folks.
Not in any way that we have seen significantly Bill.
I guess we'll get closer to that as we go through our budgeting process in November.
But certainly no alerts through our alert system that would suggest they change the behavior versus history no.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you look at some of the volume deceleration is there any way to kind of figure out what the sources of the volume? Like are people just buying and using less or is there -- because it looks like private label shares have been pretty flat.
I know it doesn't exist in Oral Care but even in some of the European Home Care categories.
Yes.
I mean the fact of the matter is in these markets which is why I think it will stay at this level now.
People have used up pantry inventory and they are making the bottle and the tube and the package are now talking to Europe and the U.S.
a little bit longer.
You can see it in the usage yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then in the U.K.
obviously P&amp;D took a ton of share but if my data is right your market share was up a little bit also.
How do you think that market plays out and what happens to the profitability there? Well as you saw our growth in Europe the U.K.
was one of the lead contributors.
Yes you're right our share is up approaching 48% on a year-to-date basis actually ahead of that in the most recent period.
The competitor that you referenced to their share is about 4 on a year-to-date basis and has trended down for the last 3 months and is now sitting at about an eight share.
So we're happy with the growth.
We are happy with the performance of our U.K.
business.
We don't see it as a BRIC country.
So we're talking about 66 million consumers here.
But we're happy with our performance in end market.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just on the plan for next year I know that's a very profitable business for you even if profits or margins took them down a little bit I may guess there's just enough cushion in the business model to kind of keep going to double-digit EPS growth trajectory.
I think the -- maybe we should take a sort of a little bit of a walk-around in the Oral Care business just to sort of try and set a platform for next year.
I mean if you take the BRICs China we've been up for the last three quarters.
We're now approaching 33 and the principal competitor has been down the last three quarters now sitting at a 22.
In Russia we continue to lead with about a 32 share and the competitor is sitting at a 16 having lost 9 share points over the last 5 years.
In Brazil we're up to 71.
They are indeed the 5 but the lead brand the Prosaud is only half of that market share.
Mexico we are back up to approaching an 82 share and they're holding at about a 12 of which the majority is lower-priced complete businesses and all of these businesses are highly promoted.
What's driving our growth are increasingly Premium products like Total like our Luminous Whitening just launched in Latin America.
So we think in terms of the shape of our business and where we are focusing our investments there is comfort I guess in continuing to advance the businesses and the company at that double-digit rate.
We'll go next to Lauren Lieberman with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about advertising spending because I know that you talked about heavy new product launch activity in the second half of the year.
But advertising was down again as a percentage of sale.
So as we look at the balance of the year will advertising be up as a percentage of sale which is now part of your budget in kind of the thought process around mid-single digit earnings growth this year? Was it a big reinvestment? It doesn't really look like it's happening.
The answer -- the direct answer to your question is yes.
And obviously as we move our way into 2012 the thinking would be to continue that.
And when you talk about the total pie here obviously and we have said this before an awfully large part in connection with consumers these days is at retail and these are often constructed programs that have brand-building engagement aspects to them.
But they come in price.
So they come in the difference between the gross sale and the net sale and we have seen that aspect of commercial investment go up this year to the benefit of brands we think.
But yes with the innovation out there both absolutely and as a percent of sales we expect the advertising to be up in the fourth quarter and clearly we'll be looking to continue that in 2012.
Research Division</strong> And Ian sorry just to clarify does the advertising of the percentage of sales is it going to be up on a full-year basis or just in the fourth quarter at this point? On a full-year basis it will be in line with sales growth more or less.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then the other thing was just if I kind of went through just in my head would be net share for the outlook by division it sounds like you're guiding to operating profit being like flattish to down in all divisions in the fourth quarter with the exception of Latin America.
So as we look into '12 I mean is this -- you talked about pricing starting to catch up but it just still feels like the outlook for fourth quarter isn't all that great.
So is it a mid of 2012 that things start to accelerate? It will be a really big swing for you to have that kind of performance in fourth quarter and then things will kind be off the races as we get into the first quarter? Well we still as we said expect mid-single digits for this year.
What is changing I guess the three things I mentioned before.
Pricing is changing and will accelerate through the fourth quarter and into next year.
Commodities are really flattening and in many material cases starting to decline.
So the unfavorability in the fourth will be lesser than the third and that will continue to improve in 2012.
And we are getting the benefit from the restructurings that we are doing which are lowering overhead and will continue to do that in 2012.
And many of those things will literally be with us as we enter 2012 because we are already -- we will already be seeing them in the fourth quarter.
We'll go next to Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> A quick question.
Just an update on interest expense which will flow in the quarter and similarly on corporate expenses? And then just finally could you elaborate a little bit on what's going on in China and Greater Asia into the new growth? Okay.
Well the there's nothing unusual in the interest expense.
It's basically running at the level it has been running at.
And as we look forward we would expect it to be the same relative to corporate expense.
The only real shift there was the benefit we got last year from the sale of some [indiscernible] they're called bonds in Venezuela which is not recurring this year.
So you get a bit of a pickup.
And when you turn to Asia the countries that you would expect a Greater Asia region growing high single digits.
India growing double digits and -- I'm sorry Greater China growing at high single digits.
I made the same mistake talking internally this morning.
And India growing double digits.
The only slight depressing factor we had on Asia with Greater Asia which includes Africa on the quarter was you may have read about it an unforecast 4-week strike national strike in South Africa which probably impacted volume around half a percentage point in the quarter.
But other than that things I think as you would expect them to be in that part of the world.
We'll go next to Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So Ian you got to return to double-digit earnings growth next year which comes despite the difficult consumer spending environment on top of a likelihood from FX.
So I just want to get some more granularity on what you think gives you visibility that you can actually hit your long-term goals next year even in the face of the tough industry environment.
Yes.
The -- well let me try take it sort of from the top to the bottom.
The way we see our categories operating in the world we're in today is that we expect the categories in Europe and North America the so-called developed world to grow between 1% and 2% local currency.
We expect the categories in the emerging markets which is just over 50% of our business to grow high single digits which they have been doing historically.
So I think the growth trajectory is relatively clear.
And we're very pleased with the growth we posted this quarter leading us in to 2012.
Second on the gross margin we expect to offset the $1 impact of commodity costs this fourth quarter and move into rebuilding the ratio in 2012 because of the rollover benefit of pricing that we will have taken and the known reduction in the headwinds we will face from commodity cost.
And very importantly and part of our thinking  model is this continued focus on reducing overhead as a percentage of sales which we are seeing play out this year and with the utilization of the onetime gains from the sale of the detergents in Colombia expect to continue in 2012.
And I guess on top of that the general strength as I tried to demonstrate from the brief walk around the world the general strength of our market shares which we continue to increase around the world.
And we'll take our final question from Jon Andersen with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I assume that you're typically leading when you take price increases at least in your larger markets in categories and countries.
And you mentioned some adjustments to price were made to respond to competitive activity in the quarter.
I guess I'm just wondering if this is the normal kind of lag sort of the lag process or are you seeing something else there? And what have you been seeing more recently with respect to your competitor pricing? The -- well we lead where we believe we have the right to lead which is where we have category strength full country strength.
So you are right.
We also as I mentioned earlier with the uptick in the U.S.
we will adjust our pricing for in-store trial-generating devices where we think that is right to build a trial for product that we think can have significant market share.
And we will on a selected basis by category offset the pricing that we take with promotional activity if we think that is appropriate.
All of that is entirely consistent with history.
None of that is new in our thinking.
So there is no structural change in what we are seeing or how we are reacting.
The only reason we made the comment is that it was a contributory factor against what we had been forecasting on the gross margin.
That was the only reason we referenced it.
But the way we think about it from an executional point of view has not changed.
Okay.
Well thanks to all of you for your questions and thanks to the Colgate folks that get it all done and we look forward to catching up with you in the new year.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Co.
Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year End 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and is being simulcast live via the www.colgate.com.
[Operator Instructions] At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Bina Thompson.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Lisa.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings release conference call.
With me this morning are Ian Cook Chairman President and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller; and Elaine Paik  Corporate Treasurer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
And these statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements on Forward-looking Statements.
We will discuss organic sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and divestitures.
We will also discuss gross profit margin operating profit net income and earnings per share excluding  the impact of the onetime items described in the press release.
A full reconciliation with the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the press release and is posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.colgate.com.
We're very pleased with our fourth quarter results given the turbulent year just finished.
The good momentum in our organic sales throughout the year is encouraging as we enter 2012.
The challenge as you know has been to balance volume and price and we have met that challenge.
Our market shares are strong and growing and you will hear more detail by division in a moment.
On a year-to-date basis our worldwide market shares are up in toothpaste mouthwash manual toothbrushes bar soaps body wash shampoo household cleaners and fabric conditioners.
In addition we are pleased that our gross margin improved sequentially from the third quarter supported by not only positive pricing but another year of outstanding Funding the Growth results.
We told you throughout the year of our renewed efforts to reduce our costs and that focus continues and is succeeding.
This is particularly important in a world of volatile raw material costs.
And importantly we increased our advertising in the quarter absolutely and as a percent of sales in support of new product launches around the world.
So a strong finish to the year.
In terms of our income statement our balance sheet is equally solid with strong cash generation and return on capital.
As Ian mentioned in the press release the world remains challenging from a macroeconomic perspective and is particularly volatile in terms of foreign currency and consumer and competitive dynamics.
This has made it increasingly difficult to provide forecasts for specific regions.
As a result we've determined that going forward we will not provide divisional guidance.
We will continue to provide guidance on a total company basis.
And for 2012 we expect volume growth in the range of 4 to 7% and gross margin to increase between 75 and 125 basis points.
Let me turn to the divisions to give you some color regarding their fourth quarter results and more general opportunities going forward starting then with North America.
We're very pleased that this region reported positive volume and price for the first time in over 2 years.
We told you at the start of 2011 that North American results would improve as we progress through the year and that indeed happened.
Our second half new product activity has met with good success and we have more slated for 2012.
In the quarter our U.S.
market shares increased in 6 categories were level in 3 and declined in only 2.
Our leading all-outlet toothpaste share mentioned in the press release of 35.9% was 36.1% in the fourth quarter.
We're particularly pleased with the success of Colgate Optic White toothpaste and toothbrush and the all-around value they are delivering.
Value to consumers is reflected in good market shares and some very solid repeat rates.
Since the launch the 4-ounce toothpaste and soft toothbrush are the number one SKUs in their respective categories.
Value to our trade partners since as you would expect the impact on overall average retail selling price for toothpaste has been very positive and will be delivering value to us through higher volumes share and profits a truly win win win proposition.
This quarter we will be launching another variant Optic White Cool Mild Mint thereby further expanding this very successful franchise.
Our second half launch of Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief has also delivered good results.
It's been 65% incremental to the Sensitive business and as such has driven category growth.
To build on this success we will be launching Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief Enamel Repair this quarter.
This is an exclusive new daily use toothpaste that helps repair vulnerable parts of sensitive teeth and provides long-lasting relief as well.
In toothbrushes in the first quarter we will be launching Colgate 360� Surround Sonic Power with 3x bacteria removal action to remove bacteria in 3 ways.
The brush has surround bristles wraparound cleaner and a cheek and tongue cleaner.
The transparent handle and clear caps drive differentiation versus our manual toothbrushes.
As you know the Colgate 360� franchise has been extremely successful in both manual and powered brushes not only here in the U.S.
but around the world.
In Home Care this quarter we are launching Palmolive Fresh Sponge dishwashing liquid which goes beyond cleaning dishes to wash away odor-causing residue from sponges leaving dishes and sponges freshly clean.
And this is just the beginning.
You'll hear about other new product launches as we go through the year.
Turning then to Europe.
As you know the situation in Europe remains volatile from a macroeconomic perspective particularly in Greece and some other southern European countries.
Given that backdrop we are quite pleased with our performance with volume x divestments and acquisitions growing 1% in the fourth quarter.
And as referenced in the press release our oral care market shares are strong and growing despite a highly competitive environment.
In the U.K.
for instance our toothpaste share is up 30 basis points and our toothbrush share is up 250 basis points to almost 30% year-to-date with the latest read at 36.1% despite heavy promotional spending by one of our major competitors.
Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief toothpaste continues to do well with a record monthly share in November of over 4% increasing our share of the sensitivity segment to 30%.
In Germany our toothpaste share is up over 0.5 point on a year-to-date basis to 37.8% with the most recent share at 38.4%.
Colgate Total has been performing well in that market garnering over 4 market share points.
In France we are making great progress in mouthwash behind our Colgate Plax brand.
Year-to-date our share is at 14% up from under 12% in 2008 and reaching 14.7% in the most recent period.
New products have been key to share gains and we expect our new product offerings to be even greater in 2012 than in 2011.
In the first quarter we will be launching a unique and complete system of oral care products under the Colgate Total Pro Gum Health name.
This includes toothpaste toothbrush mouthwash and dental floss and is designed to provide optimum protection for teeth and gums.
In the premium whitening segment we will be launching Colgate Max White Shine extending the already successful Colgate Max White franchise.
With a novel purple gel aesthetic this product strengthens and shines enamel for a shinier sparkling smile.
And in the sensitivity segment we will be launching Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief Enamel Repair which helps to repair the sensitive areas of the teeth for instant relief and lasting protection against sensitivity.
In addition we are also introducing a sensitivity mouthwash to accompany our toothpaste and toothbrush for a complete system to provide effective sensitivity relief.
And in personal care we're very excited about a new line of shower gel and liquid hand wash Palmolive Ayur Rituals [ph].
This line with variants such as Energy Joyous and Tranquility is inspired by the secrets of Indian ayurvedic traditions which have been known for centuries to help regenerate body and mind.
Another exciting new product is from Sanex Pro Hydrate bath and shower gels which help to recover skin's moisture level in a natural way.
The products contain natural skin moisturizers and are approved by dermatologists.
In the Home Care category we're launching a range of cleaners called Ajax Pure Home which purifies surfaces from dirt and bacteria and help purify the air thanks to its freshening fragrance with essential oils.
So as you can see we have a busy year ahead in Europe and are encouraged by the breadth of our activity.
And as you would expect we will support these launches with out-of-store and in-store activity with an even greater emphasis on all that digital has to offer.
Turning then to Latin America.
We're very pleased with the continued strong momentum in this part of the world with 14.5% organic sales increase.
In addition to the market share increases in toothpaste toothbrushes and mouthwash referenced in the press release we increased shares in shampoos and maintained our solid #2 position in deodorants of over 20%.
In Oral Care we're delighted with the excellent performance of our Colgate Luminous White which was launched in both Mexico and Brazil in the fourth quarter with highly impactful packaging and will be rolled out across the region in 2012 as a system that incorporates toothbrushes and mouthwash.
In Brazil the extremely positive trade reaction allowed us to achieve 95% of the listing objective among target customers in only one month.
Total customer engagement resulted in nearly flawless in-store execution which was accompanied by strong media and digital support.
In the month of December Colgate Luminous White toothpaste reached over a 4 national share just shy of the toothpaste share for the entire portfolio of one of our competitors.
Our share in drugstores is twice the national share.
In Mexico our results have been equally impressive again aided by very strong trade support.
National Scantrack data shows Colgate Luminous White toothpaste share growing from 2.8% in October the first month of launch to more than 10% in the most recent readings.
It's the #1 selling SKU in a number of our top customers and has been 85% incremental to the whitening segment.
In toothbrushes despite heavy competitive activity we gained almost a full share point across the region increasing our year-to-date share to 41%.
We are #1 in toothbrushes in every country in the region with the exception of Mexico where we are fast closing the gap between our nearest competitor.
Our market share is up 70 basis points year-to-date to 41.4% with the most recent reading at 43%.
In mouthwash our share is up 3.7 points to 34% year-to-date with the most recent read at over 36%.
In 2007 our gap with the leading competitor was almost 30 points and it now stands at under 8.
As we enter 2012 we have a full pipeline of new products.
As noted above we will roll out the very successful Colgate Luminous whitening system across the region.
Other toothpaste launches are slated for later in the year.
In the Personal Care category we will be continuing the rollout of Lady Speed Stick pH Active and Men's Speed Stick X5 Multi-Protect.
Launched first in Mexico at the end of the third quarter these 2 products have contributed to market share gains in that country and we hope to see similar successes in other countries.
Lady Speed Stick pH Active delivers protection that adapts to a woman allowing for better protection from sweat and odor.
Men's Speed Stick x5 Multi-Protect provides 5 different benefits that last all day.
In the bar soap category Protex with vitamin E is another exciting new product which will have a regional launch.
This variant combines the long-lasting antibacterial protection of Protex with vitamin E known to be an essential nutrition for the skin to keep it healthy protected and feeling hydrated as well.
Protex is the #1 antibacterial bar soap brand across Latin America and has steadily gained share every year for the past 5 years from 8.3% of the market in 2006 to 14.9% year-to-date and 15.6% in the most recent period.
This excellent performance is attributable to a steady dream of innovation and bodes wells for the future.
Turning then to Greater Asia/Africa.
Momentum in this region continues as well with excellent organic sales growth of 8.5% in the quarter the strongest growth we have seen in over a year and well balanced between volume and price.
As elsewhere around the world we have a robust lineup of new products with more to come this year.
In the quarter we maintained our strong leadership position in toothpaste in the fast-growing markets of China India and Russia.
In the toothpaste category we will be rolling out Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief Enamel Repair as we are in Europe.
Colgate Max White One which has helped grow share in other markets in the region will be launched in Turkey where our market share continues to increase up almost 150 basis points year-on-year to 27.5%.
Across India we will be relaunching Colgate Total with improved packaging and integrated marketing support.
This should help us maintain our leading year-to-date share of over 50%.
We are very pleased that in South Africa with the launch of Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief toothpaste Colgate is now the #1 most recommended sensitivity toothpaste by dentists.
As you know our strategy is to not only launch proven global bundles in this fast-growing part of the world but also from time to time develop products specifically addressing unique consumer preferences in this region.
A good example of a new regional launch is Colgate Slim Soft toothbrush with tapered bristles.
The tapered bristles segment is growing very fast across Asia double-digit in most markets.
And this toothbrush is designed to capitalize on this growth.
The handle has a simple and ergonomic design and the 0.01-millimeter superslim tip bristles clean easily between the teeth and along the gum line.
While it is still early days initial results are very promising.
And then Hill's.
As in our Colgate business macroeconomic conditions in the U.S.
and Europe have presented a challenge for Hill's.
Pleasingly our high-growth markets are growing double-digit in organic sales with both positive volume and pricing.
The weakness in our developed market businesses is related to our Science Diet line and less so to our Prescription Diet products as business in the veterinary channel is improving accompanied by continuing increases in veterinary endorsements.
However we are encouraged with our ongoing new product activity which will continue into this year.
We told you last quarter about Science Diet Ideal Balance.
Consumption for the product is growing and bringing new households into the brand.
A fully integrated marketing campaign including digital media was launched in the fourth quarter.
Business also continues to build around our launch last year of Science Diet Healthy Advantage a wellness food available exclusively through the vet channels.
Distribution is now ahead of our original forecast due to sampling of vet healthcare teams in-clinic awareness centers as well as pet owner trial rebates and new pet kits.
We have additional products slated for this year along with healthy support behind them.
In addition we will be partnering with the Food Network to increase awareness of Science Diet Ideal Balance to advertorials patch books and mobile banners to further establish the product as a natural option in the premium segment by increasing awareness and communicating the ingredients in perfect balance message.
All this activity combined with our ongoing veterinary staff education and feeding programs should bode well for 2012.
So in summary we're pleased with this strong finish to the year and believe we have the right strategies in place to continue to deliver solid results in 2012 despite global macroeconomic challenges.
We're looking forward to a strong year of investment and volume growth and continued acceleration in our market shares worldwide.
Our leadership team is committed to winning on the ground with superior execution behind an ever-increasing flow of innovative new products.
We have a full pipeline of new products spanning all price points to enable us to succeed in developed and emerging markets alike.
And we look forward to sharing our results as we go through the year.
That's all I have for my prepared remarks Lisa and now we'd like to open the floor for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from John Faucher with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a question about the change in the earnings target from sort of dollar-based to currency neutral and how we should read into that? You guys have traditionally talked about the playbook that you have in place particularly in emerging markets to deal with a stronger dollar in terms of more pricing and that's what we saw in 2009.
So does this signal a shift in the playbook sort of longer-term? Are you talking about this just in the context of 2012? So can you just sort of give us some updates in terms of how we should think about your longer-term guidance given this change this year.
Yes let's try and put this into some sort of context John.
I -- you will remember when we spoke last on the last call that we were just entering our budget process.
And we said that it was our goal to try and get back to double-digit growth.
And at that time as I'm sure you and others have done if you looked at the prevailing foreign exchange rates a 10% growth in dollars was the same as a 10% growth in local currency.
I guess what has changed for 2012 is the volatility we saw since that time and coming into this call.
We are very pleased with the fourth quarter.
We made good progress we think on the top line 6% organic.
We made better progress than we expected on the gross margin line and expect that to continue going forward.
But given the volatility in currency for 2012 felt that taking on that volatility was not prudent would potentially put pressure on our ability to support the business and so for this year felt it was better to guide currency neutral.
Again we'll have to look at the world foreign exchange position as we work our way through 2012 into the out years to see what happens.
But I think from the macro point of view continued volatility certainly in 2012 must be the expectation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So does that mean that you're not planning on guiding currency neutral forever? I mean it sounds like you're just saying this is just a 2012 issue.
That's what I'm saying.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of the view of pricing in Latin America is that just again sort of a 1-year -- or emerging markets generally that's just a 1-year issue as well and we'll revisit that in 2013 in terms of using that to offset the price -- the FX? Well the -- let's be clear.
When we -- as we think about this obviously to make the gross margin progress we expect to make and as Bina said well within our 75 to 125 range we will obviously be taking pricing in countries affected from a transaction point of view to make the gross margin progress.
So the playbook is very much in place in terms of offsetting transaction but it did not want to stretch it to the translation end of it.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now go to our next question from Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to push on this a little bit further.
Given that the Colgate we knew would be able to offset commodities and currencies no matter what volatility through pricing and then continue to expand margins we've seen tougher times on gross margins we've seen tougher times on volatility in currencies and you haven't changed your guidance then.
Why now? And I guess is it really just because of global macro problems that obviously we're all aware of or is there even any potentially Colgate-specific issue that's at play here? I think you're taking it too far Ali if I might say.
We do believe it is the global volatility.
Interestingly if you go back historically usually commodities and foreign exchange were countervailing factors.
We're not seeing that right now.
You know in 2011 that the commodities headwind we had to face was double what we thought coming into the year and looking at 2012 whilst the rate of increase is indeed slowing we think it'll be between 2% and 3% it is still at elevated levels and we're not seeing the usual correlation or loose correlation between foreign exchange and commodities.
And that is a global factor not a Colgate factor.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in that context then can you help me understand a few things: One is volumes in China were down why? Two is exclusive of Optic White and other innovations in the U.S.
volumes probably weren't that robust so maybe tell me how much was from the innovation from the U.S.
volumes? And then lastly again in the same context Venezuela pricing drove almost all of your pricing in Latin America because it sounds like you were prepared for these Chavez changes and you took the move in December.
So what pricing you take outside Venezuela and Latin America? So again in the context of it's only a 1-year thing we're going to get over this China U.S.
volume and Venezuela would be very helpful.
Sure.
Well let's start in no particular order with Venezuela.
And of course in that context the new government regulations came into effect towards the end of last year and the guidance we are giving in terms of our approach to 2012 is obviously compliant with government regulation with no pricing no new pricing assumption in Venezuela but continued progress in pricing across the world including Latin America.
So Venezuela is out of the picture and the rest of the Latin countries will take to offset the transaction as we said.
Optic the whole point in the U.S.
was to return to growth and return to positive pricing.
We've stepped up innovation in the second half and we're actually thrilled with the progress of our U.S.
business and our progress in the Oral Care category as being the outline.
Here you have a situation where the consumer sees value and the benefit they're getting and the manufacturer and retail share in the growth and the margin expansion that quality of innovation provides.
And frankly one would look for more of that in the U.S.
business and beyond which is what we're focused on rather than taking it out and looking at the business without that innovation.
So it is a particular strategy to try and create that type of innovation and as Bina commented with the kind of early results we're seeing in Latin America when you transfer it it has global applicability.
In the case of China obviously for the year we continued in Greater China to see what we thought was good progress.
We lifted our organic rate of growth for the year to about 10% with underlying volume running at about 8%.
Our market share in China continues to be in the 32 33 zone leading the category by 10 points and that share has been consistent across the year.
And the fourth quarter was impacted by inventory adjustments with some of our distributors in the rural parts of the company and we feel confident we will come back in 2012.
So not a fundamental issue a quarter issue.
And for our next question we'll go to Wendy Nicholson with Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> My first question on the gross margin target is your confidence in being able to get to that 75 to 125 basis points of expansion more on the cost side or on the product mix side? Because it strikes me given how much promotional spending levels are probably going to remain elevated around the world maybe that's an aggressive target.
I mean to -- let's come back to material costs.
As I said in response to an earlier question as you know where coming into 2011 we thought material costs were going to rise in the 6% to 7% range.
They actually rose in the 12% to 13% range.
And going forward the first thing to say is that our estimation is that material commodity cost increases will be in the 2% to 3% range.
And that is more than offsetable with a continued strong Funding the Growth program which we expect and pricing in 2012 which is partly the rollover of the pricing we think we balanced well in the second half of 2011 between price and volume.
Let me bring you back and use this opportunity to give you the roll through for the fourth quarter and give some sense of how that is beginning to play out.
In the fourth quarter now this of course takes us from the fourth quarter gross profit 2010 to the fourth quarter gross profit this year.
So last year our gross profit was 59.1%.
And if we look at the bridge to the 57.7 this year we got a benefit of 1.2 percentage points from the pricing we took up from what we delivered in the third quarter because of the higher pricing.
Our Funding the Growth consistent with our trend historically delivered 260 basis points of benefit which was up from the third quarter of this year and up from the fourth quarter of last year.
Material prices ebbed somewhat a headwind of minus 5.1 percentage points which compared with 5.3 in the prior quarter so you see that plateauing but still at elevated levels.
And net that works its way through to the 57.7 down 140 basis points.
Progressive improvement as Bina said we expect that progressive improvement to continue into the first quarter of 2012.
We don't think we'll quite get back to the first quarter of 2011 gross margin but it will be close.
And then with our normal trend of Funding the Growth with our normal trend of pricing excluding Venezuela as a factor we feel very confident we will be in that 75 to 125 basis points range.
And a key driver is that the pace of commodity increase will lessen year-on-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I can just follow up one question specifically on the outlook commodity versus pricing.
Pricing in Europe has been weak this year and I assume some of that is just currency-related but is there anything specific to Europe from a macro from a consumer perspective that makes you think that pricing is going to remain tough to take to offset the currency headwind? That's question #1.
But then my bigger-picture question and I promise then I will stop is the change not only in terms of the guidance to local currency but also the change of not giving us any quarterly direction by regions? I'm probably thinking too much about it or reacting too strongly but is there a risk that the thing that has made Colgate sort of so unusual and so special for so long a decade longer has been just the incredible analytical focus the incredible close touch on the numbers the fact I think that historically you've paid your employees in dollars and so that's what's motivated them to take that pricing in the emerging markets to offset currency headwinds? Is there a risk that Colgate is falling off of some of the very sharp discipline managing every region every line that kind of thing? Does that make any sense? The question makes sense the answer to the question is absolutely definitely not.
Research Division</strong> That's a shock.
And when we think about building our business we will take pricing we will deliver the Funding the Growth initiatives that will grow our gross margin in that 75 to 125 basis points area.
We did not in these volatile times which many of you have written about want to take an imprudent stance of reaching to cover the translation impact of a bouncing foreign exchange which worsened dramatically from the time we started our budget.
And we think this is an appropriate way to manage the business in these turbulent times.
We're going to see good top line growth next year.
We're going to see good margin expansion next year.
We're going to see an increase in advertising investment.
We're going to see a reduction in our structural cost as a ratio to sales.
All the initiatives that we have had for all of these years are absolutely going to continue.
And in local currency terms we will be growing the bottom line by double digits.
So the internal discipline is not going to change at all.
One of the other things though you have seen with Colgate over the years depending on where the world macros go is an ability to react between geographies to adjust to whatever turbulence there may be from a global macro point of view.
And we will retain that flexibility and we don't think that providing specific guidance by geography at this time does anything other than set up a potential botcher if a number is missed because we've had to make an adjustment from one geography to another even though the company as a whole delivers well from a top line and a bottom line point of view.
So we don't think it adds anything.
It absolutely doesn't change the discipline internally nor does it change the flexibility that we have I think the judgment to use and have done well so in the past to adjust between geographies as necessary.
And to your final point about pricing in general Europe as you know has always been a difficult area from a pricing point of view.
We were very pleased with the progress we made in the other half of the developed world in North America with the innovation stream we have bringing North America into positive pricing territory in the fourth quarter with an expectation that that will continue next year.
And we look to make sequential progress on pricing in Europe in 2012.
Wendy where our discipline is failing is getting people to ask one question and then get back into the queue.
There's at least 15 questions on the queue so please can you limit yourself to one question.
And we'll now take our next question from Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So I guess the question is on competition right? Obviously we've seen increased competition from P&amp;G.
This is nothing new globally in oral care quite a while.
Europe's probably their latest push and your shares are strong but I guess profit was down in Europe despite Sanex right.
So I guess the question is can you take a step back and just update us on the impact of competition to margins going forward? Because I think commodities and pricing have obscured a lot over the last year right? But obviously you're guiding back to double-digit EPS growth through this year on a currency neutral basis.
Is that because the competitive spending is more rational? It doesn't seem like it right? Or it's lapped or decreasing or is it simply a function of the fact that pricing is now ahead of commodity inflation for 2012 so you can do the double-digits despite higher levels of competition? Chris competition has always been a factor and the aspect of it that we have resisted is what one might call price-driven competition.
And competition at its best is innovation-led competition and that's a world we are I think well-equipped and happy to compete in and Optic and the equivalent with Luminous being rolled out around the world are good examples of precisely that.
When you look at geographies around the world where new entries have been made -- the Brazils for example the U.K.s as Bina said our shares continue to grow and that is even before the benefit of the Optic or the Luminous toothpastes hit our market share.
So we feel good about our relative market position.
There is no question that the competitive price promotion in those markets continues to be elevated and we compete with it where we choose to and where not certainly not at the same level as our focus is on innovation to build the business.
Now when you look at the geographies around the world and the consumers' behavior around the world what we have seen is that in the developed world with more of the purchasing decisions being made at retail we have seen programs executed in retail outlets what we call shopper marketing which you don't see in the advertising number it comes out of the trade spending.
And we are as we have said for some time balancing our marketing techniques to take advantage of the in-store activity where that's good and use the more fundamental basic engagement advertising where we believe that is important.
But you look at the structure of our income statement and what we're saying about 2012 I think we're exhibiting an ability to grow the top line while taking pricing recover and then expand our gross margin find funding from reducing structural costs as a percentage to sales so that we can as Bina said in the beginning keep building our market shares around the world which empirically if you look at the data is what we are doing.
And for our next question we'll go to Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
You said in the press release and on the call that organic sales in developing markets rose 12% and that would include the decline in China.
Could you tell us what the growth rate organic sales growth rate was of developed markets and how these 2 markets are now defined? Because they're not on a straight segment basis but percentage of total of each one.
Well first of all the -- in Greater China our organic sales were up.
It was the volume that was modestly down.
Today we are about 51% 52% in the emerging markets and the definitions of those would be broadly as you would expect which is that North America and Europe would be developed markets as would Australasia and the rest broadly would be emerging markets.
Connie that's spelled out in Table 8 in the press release.
And for our next question we'll go to Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> I have a housekeeping question that I hope is not taken as that I'm cheating.
And the housekeeping question is if you can comment what was the growth EPS growth in 2011 excluding the benefit from currency if we're going to be starting to compare currency neutral? And in terms of my longer-term question or my more strategic question has to do with the relationship between how you get to the double-digit earnings growth currency neutral in 2012? We saw pricing power diminish in 2011.
What is going to change in 2012? You're talking about North America stabilizing but profits were down mid-single digits on top of double digits last year.
The same thing can be said about Europe.
And if you can comment on what was your saving targets? What was -- how much savings you extracted in 2011 and how that is going to compare in 2012? So could you help us understand how -- what exactly is controllable and that we can believe? Because the assumption that the diminished pricing power in 2011 changing in 2012 is a risky one.
Well the -- let's take the strategic question first given that that is more important.
Our savings programs if that's the place to start our saving programs we believe will be as effective in 2012 as they have been in 2010 and 2011.
And we have been very transparent after the fact of the precise contribution of those savings programs to our gross margin and they will continue.
I think that's something we have demonstrated over many years that you can believe in.
Secondly we have said for at least 2 years now that we had been focusing on reducing our structural costs on a ratio basis to sales.
We did that in 2011.
We told you about the divestment of the detergent business in Colombia earlier -- or late last year and the effect that that will have in 2012.
So I think you can believe in that as well.
And I would challenge this notion of lack of pricing power.
We took greater pricing in the third -- in the fourth quarter of last year and held volume at a 4.5 4.7 rate of growth organic growth's strong at 6.1%.
We believe that we can continue that in 2012 balancing the volume between the rollover of the pricing that we have already taken in 2011 and new pricing in 2012.
In neither of those 2 years would the pricing be close to what we had done in 2008 and 2009.
And we're seeing market shares and consumption grow and again Optic or Sensitive Pro-Relief would be good examples where if you bring the consumer a benefit he or she values they will pay a higher price for what they believe to be a superior product.
And I think you can believe that innovation stream will continue.
So for me those would be the 3 factors.
We'll get the same benefit from our Funding the Growth which is why we're comfortable with the 75 to 125 basis points expansion we will get rollover and fresh pricing in 2012 without prejudicing the top line.
We've already shown after many quarters our ability to get pricing into positive territory here in the U.S.
innovation-driven.
So we don't see we don't have the same disbelief I guess Javier that you may be expressing.
And with that commodity headwind in the 2% to 3% range that's something we can offset and continue to rebuild gross margin.
LLC</strong> But if I can I mean if this doesn't count as a question right? Just for clarification.
If I get into your -- if I back into your numbers Funding the Growth came in at around $325 million.
You had said in the past that the target is between $300 million and $600 million so it certainly came in at the low end.
Funding the Growth needed to be supplemented with these restructuring programs that we didn't know about it.
So it seems to me that Funding the Growth is kind of like delivering at the low end of expectations.
And then coming back to the pricing side basically pricing came relative to the past came in really really late.
And yes you took pricing in the -- pricing seems to be stabilizing in the U.S.
but at the same time profits are down high single-digit on top of double digits.
So it's just hard to understand how you get to sustainable double-digit growth.
It sounded to me like a question Javier.
So the quick answer before we move on is we invested behind the premium innovation in the U.S.
and we said we were going to do that.
And so we did that and as a company delivered what we said we were going to deliver.
So that was purposeful and intentional.
And as we have said before we make judgments across geographies.
And the fundamental flaw in the reasoning on the Funding the Growth question is all you're seeing there is the Funding the Growth benefit that we are getting on the gross margin line not the totality of the Funding the Growth savings that are working their way through the entire income statement.
LLC</strong> But that was my first question Ian what was the total savings? If you could help us understand what was the total saving in 2011 for Funding the Growth excluding -- including SG&amp;A and what is the target for 2012.
We're not going to give that number Javier simply said.
We have said very clearly that we have initiatives on the structural side.
You see it in the ratio to sales as we report results and we give very clear run through of what we get on the gross margin side.
Beyond that we're not prepared to go.
And we'll now take our next question from Bill Schmitz from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can I do the same thing with a housekeeping question and then a real question? What do you think the pricing is going to be in 2012 and what you think the tax rate's going to be? Bill the -- on the pricing side I would say the pricing is going to be the same order of magnitude as we saw this year.
And given where we are today frankly about half of that is going to be a rollover effect of pricing already taken which is why we feel okay about the pricing.
On the tax side of things obviously we have a lot of focus on tax savings initiatives and the impact of our capital structure and remittance planning.
And for next year we're looking at a tax guideline of between 31% and 32%.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then for my "real question " have you thought about the portfolio more broadly again and specifically Home Care and Hill's? Because obviously it's been a little bit of a drag and probably the toughest businesses especially because there's so much home care in Europe and it's -- obviously private label taking a fair bit of market share.
So has anything changed in terms of what the priorities are for those 2 businesses and maybe even thinking longer term about where they belong in the portfolio? We constantly revisit the portfolio.
As you would imagine we most recently did it as part of our strategic process around the middle of last year.
And at this time we have no revised prioritization or plans on the portfolio we have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I mean just to expand that what does Home Care and Hill's do for the broader business besides maybe giving you some more scale? It gives trade strength in parts of the world where on those businesses we lead.
As you know the Home Care business is a regional business.
In those regions it gives us trade strength.
And the Hill's business has historically given us growth which we are building back to and also is a very strong cash contributor.
We'll now take our next question from Linda Bolton Weiser with Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I was wondering the information you gave the color on China for the year in terms of sales growth and volume growth and market share trends could you give the same type of stuff for Russia for 2011? Well we continue to have market-leading share in Russia which is between 31% and 32%.
And I don't think we tend to give country breakdown from an income statement point of view but suffice to say that we ended the year with organic growth double-digit and the business I would say on a very good uptick.
So shares are good and we ended the year very nicely.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay can I sneak in one more on commodities? I guess I'm a little confused with the comment that your input costs will be up year-over-year in 2012 because I'm looking at comparisons for most commodities that are actually down year-over-year for the full year 2012.
So is your projection including in anticipation that spot prices will move up from where they are or can you just explain a little bit more? Slightly in some categories but no it's been a straight run through in terms of the commodity costs.
So -- and our oil assumption which I think is around 110 113 Brent.
So no it's a straight roll through Linda.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And is Hill's actually experiencing some -- I mean Hill's margin was very good in the quarter.
Are the agricultural commodities actually down now year-over-year? Or what was the reason for the good Hill's margin in the quarter? Pricing.
We took pricing in Hill's and we got the organic growth we were looking for so.
And we'll go to Joe Lachky with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm subbing in for Tim Conder today.
I guess first I just wanted to get the unanswered Javier question on what was the 2011 EPS benefit from currency.
And then I was also hoping you could give some foreign exchange kind of framework if possible since it's fairly easy to figure the sales impact from foreign exchange but harder to gauge the bottom line impact with all the moving parts.
Do you guys have any sort of internal sensitivities you could provide like some other consumer companies have? For example like a 1% change in net foreign exchange on the top line is an x percent or an x dollar impact to EPS? I think the way we framed it Joe is that we expect the impact on the bottom line to be around 4%.
As the current spot rates the top line is slightly less than that approximately 3%.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then on 2011 what was the benefit to EPS from currency? Between 2% and 3%.
And we'll now go to Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> My questions are all sort of housekeeping as well.
I think you said the gross margin would be actually down in the first quarter.
So could you clarify if EPS growth is going to be second half weighted and if EPS will actually be up in the first quarter? We said that gross margin from a gross margin point of view we will continue to make progress sequentially as we did between the third and the fourth quarter.
You will remember what we actually did slightly better in the fourth quarter than we were expecting.
And we expect to continue to make progress in the first quarter although we will be slightly shy of the first quarter 2011 level.
And we expect EPS to be up broadly in line with the year.
Inc.</strong> In the first quarter okay.
And then when you said double-digit increase in EPS for the year x currency does that mean in the range of 10% to 12%? Or could it be 15% to 20%? What does double-digit mean a little bit more explicitly? Alice it means 10%.
Inc.</strong> It means 10% okay.
And then could you tell us about operating margins? We've heard about gross margins for 2012.
Are operating margins going to be flat up or down? We don't provide that as you well know Alice.
So we give you the work-through in terms of the top line and the gross profit and advertising will be up absolutely and as a percent to sales.
And we will deliver in a currency neutral way double-digit with that 4% headwind of translation and foreign exchange.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then my final one is on the sales guidance.
You told us volume 4% to 7%.
And then you just said pricing would be about the same as 2011.
Pricing got pretty strong by the fourth quarter but for the year overall I believe it was 1%.
I'm sorry I misspoke earlier.
I meant more in line with the fourth quarter of 2011.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So it's more like 3%.
So you're expecting organic sales growth to be high single-digit right? I -- we certainly expect the volume to be in that 4 to 7 range.
I think a reasonable way of looking at it is organic growth in the 6% to 7% range for the year.
Inc.</strong> 6% to 7% including the 3% pricing? Yes.
Inc.</strong> The math doesn't work.
Because with the 3% pricing on top of 4% to 7% volume the organic sales growth would be 7% to 10%.
It depends on where in the range of 4% to 7% you are.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like what you're really comfortable with is the 4%.
No.
We're saying you can look at our performance across the third and fourth quarter that's the kind of pacing we're expecting next year.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then if we take that 6% to 7% organic sales growth and take off 3 points for currency it looks like you're looking for reported sales to be up 3% to 4%.
So...
I think Alice you're -- we're going to have to move on.
We have lots of questions.
I think we've answered with about as much detail...
Inc.</strong> But basically operating margins are sort of flattish...
Alice why don't you give me a call and I'll be happy to work to you.
We'll now go to Lauren Lieberman with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk a little bit about advertising.
I respect the decision in terms of how you're looking at 2012 to say you want to protect investment levels in the business and not leave that subject to sort of broader volatility from a macro and FX standpoint.
But this year the advertising spending and maybe even inclusive of promotion does still feel like it was below what might have been planned or expected at the start of what was to be a big reinvestment year.
With the really solid top line performance you put up I mean maybe the answer is we're asking the wrong question because you guys think you spend the right number already.
And so I just want some perspective on -- maybe you don't think advertising actually really needs to go up to deliver the kind of top line growth that you want over the long term.
Yes Lauren a good strategic question.
I think the way we have tried to answer this historically and I talked about it a little bit earlier is to say that what one deploys in order to build brands market share and the volume that brings our engagement strategies with consumers.
The most common proxy for that is the so-called below-the-line advertising which then gets distilled into a ratio.
But that's the sampling the television advertising the digital strategies that you deploy.
And some of it is above the line in terms of the trade-related activity that is executed at retail level.
And that's because techniques allow you to engage with the consumer many of whom are making their purchasing decisions particularly in the developed world when they are in the shopping environment and that's how we approached this year.
So if you look at our overall commercial investment we actually increased our commercial investment year-on-year.
So it's really back to this notion of balancing.
We really balance between the activity we do in the retail environment which is more developed world-oriented and the investment we put in the emerging markets and that is a roll-up that we do from the ground up.
And then we react to that during the year as events unfold.
So actually -- and advertising level that we have today we think is a reasonable level.
Our plans for next year call for it to move up slightly.
And we'll take our next question from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Very briefly if you could explain just give us a sense of how Sanex is performing.
Because it is in Europe Europe's been tougher than expected overall.
Has it been worse than expected for Sanex as well? And then did you reduce share repurchases relative to a year ago in '11 because of the Sanex acquisition? And if so do you think you'll see an acceleration in share repurchases this year? We -- Sanex is doing well.
We are excited both by the progress which is on plan generally and ahead of plan on the top line.
And we have said before the expansion opportunities we see for Sanex going forward.
In terms of our share repurchasing I think as we think about 2012 we should think about share repurchasing at around the same level that we had in 2011.
And there was a little bit of pullback relative to the Sanex acquisition in 2011 as you would expect as we maintain our AA- rating.
And you know the borrowing capabilities we have and the benefit we get from maintaining that ratio.
And for our next question we'll go to Jon Andersen with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick question on the 4% to 7% volume growth outlook for 2012.
That is higher than you achieved in 2011 and I think the highest rate since maybe 2008.
So I'm just curious should we think about that as being kind of innovation-driven a stronger set of new products for 2012 or kind of just improving macro or market conditions? Just trying to get a better handle on that.
Jon well first of all 4% to 7% is a range.
And you may recall or know that that has been our historical range for a long time.
And obviously in turbulent times as we saw in 2008 and '09 and as the world I guess is in today companies have to balance which I think as what Bina said earlier what we get from a volume point of view and what we get from a price point of view.
And we think in the second half of 2011 we balanced well a healthy rate of volume growth in the 4.5% to 5% range and managed to secure pricing ending the fourth quarter of the year with pricing at 3%.
So I would say in broad terms within that range that's how you might like to think about 2012.
And we'll now go to Nik Modi with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on cost savings.
If you can just provide some specifics on what you're planning for 2012? Just so we can understand the source of those savings.
The -- well we have lots.
I mean we focus on Funding the Growth as I was trying to explain earlier on what we call direct costs which are the costs that go into the gross margin and indirect costs which are those things the company buys that don't directly go to product.
And interestingly about half of what we buy are the direct costs and half of what we buy are indirect costs.
And when we think about Funding the Growth savings it really covers the waterfront.
We think about simplification.
We think about synchronization as we have talked before.
We think about the efficiency of our trade spending and the return on investment we get there.
We think of material alternatives formula alternatives process alternatives.
We get savings from capital spending where our rates of return from a savings point of view are extraordinarily high and that will be the way we continue to think about savings from a Funding the Growth point of view.
On top of that as we said last quarter we have the structural cost savings that we are bringing to the income statement relative to the Colombian detergent business that we sold last year.
But when you think about it Nik it really is with the benefit of SAP that gives us visibility across all aspects of the business challenging all areas of cost opportunity both direct those that go into the product and indirect.
And we'll take our next question from Mark Astrachan with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So following up on a previous question I guess I shouldn't read too much into the fact that Michael is resigning.
He had responsibility for the Hill's business in terms of how that plays into the future of the business.
And just secondly Europe North America trends can you just comment through the quarter? Did they get better worse both from a sales standpoint and promotion standpoint? Mark Michael's retirement was long planned and we gave him the responsibilities he had at the end of an illustrious 41-year career.
And we have clear plans about where the business will go and I can promise you that Michael's departure has nothing to do with the Hill's business or any of the other businesses that he has managed in Colgate.
In Europe and North America the mood of course is good.
In North America I think we said -- you see it in the numbers you see it in the pricing and you see it in the market shares.
So our year ended brightly in North America and we look for that innovation-led growth to continue.
In the case of Europe Sanex as we've said is adding well to our European business.
Obviously the economic social and category overtones are not strong in Europe.
We have known that for some time.
They have not changed.
The categories are growing at rates we have said before.
And we're quite optimistic about our ability to continue to make progress in Europe recognizing the slowing growth of the categories which is why we have the structural cost initiatives that we have.
But the European group was actually happens to be in and the mood is quite good in Europe I would say.
And we'll now go to Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> The quick housekeeping is just the other expense line.
It's been so volatile over the last few years with FX.
I was just wondering if you could provide maybe a range how we should think about that for 2012.
And then just the bigger question on SG&amp;A going back to some of the structural cost savings.
I was just wondering -- I mean if you look at the fourth quarter with a very strong sales number it didn't get as much leverage I was just -- in the fourth quarter versus third quarter it was similar type of growth.
So I was wondering is that the timing of savings or is it currency? And how should we think about this component for 2012 in terms of the similar type of reduction as a percentage of sales similar to what we've seen in 2011 and '10? Yes.
The -- when you talk about the overhead side of things it is timing.
The benefit will come in 2012.
I guess that's the simple answer to that question.
On other income and expense I guess the way one has to think about it is the balance from the fourth quarter of '10 to '11 was really the impact of the Venezuelan announcement in 2010 that was to do with the remeasurement of the balance sheet where they moved from the dual rate to one rate.
So that was the effect there.
I don't have a forward projection of that line Jason.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to clarify on the SG&amp;A question so we should see an acceleration of the cost savings in 2012 versus -- I mean I think it was a 20 basis point improvement in '11 and 30 in 2010.
So we should see something more meaningful in 2012? Is that correct? We will see improvements in 2012 Jason.
And we had said we would see the full benefit of the costs that we offset with the onetime gain.
And I think we said on a call before that we would expect the savings ratio of that to be consistent with the kinds of rates of return that we had delivered before which were in that 30% to 40% range.
We'll now go to John San Marco with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Can you provide additional detail on the advertising decline in Lat Am such as what markets drove it? And I guess why you decreased ad spend and then maybe what your competitors did in this regard? No is the answer.
But in truth the -- we did not reduce advertising in Latin America.
It was up year-on-year.
And we'll now go to Lauren DeSanto with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to ask about kind of what trends you're seeing at the premium end of your oral care portfolio kind of specifically to what degree coupons and promotions and then the trade spending that you've discussed already kind of to what degree they're driving sales growth and kind of just to get a feel for how much they've accelerated as growth drivers for this premium portfolio kind of over the past few years.
Any detail on this would be very helpful.
Well I think what I'd say Lauren is that what we were trying to say earlier we learned an interesting lesson if you go back to the subprime which is playing out again with Optic White and Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief and that is when consumers whether they're developed-world consumers or so-called emerging-market consumers adopt a premium product it's because they see a value and a benefit in that product.
And even when times get challenging they stay with that product.
So in 2008 and 2009 despite the macro pressures consumers whether in the U.S.
or in Brazil stayed with premium products.
We are now seeing again with CSPR and the Optic White product here in the U.S.
which is moving around the world terrific consumer response to what they see as a valuable new addition to the toothpaste category.
And by all means one uses couponing here in the U.S.
and other trial-generating devices to build the trial for a product.
Again as Bina said earlier that is exhibiting some very strong repeat purchase rates.
So the answer is that that kind of consumer engagement strategy is indeed building trial and repeat for good premium-priced products.
And once consumers adopt them they stay with them.
Research Division</strong> Yes I guess I was just trying to get more of a sense for a kind of like over the horizon of the repeat.
So obviously for the trial and kind of maybe the initial kind of purchase cycle but over the horizon of owning engaging in buying these products are the premium -- is the premium end of your portfolio kind of being propped up more and more by couponing and promotions? That's kind of what I was trying to get at.
No.
Frankly you would say slightly less and in any event they end up obviously being accretive.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to our speakers.
I guess I'm the speaker.
Okay.
Well thank you very much for joining us today and we look forward to reporting our progress in our turbulent world.
And a big thank you to all of the Colgate folks around that world who make it happen.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Company First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and is being simulcast live at www.colgate.com.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Bina Thompson for opening remarks.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Anne.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2012 earnings release conference call.
With me this morning are Ian Cook Chairman President and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller; and Elaine Paik Corporate Treasurer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Statements.
We will discuss organic sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and divestitures.
We will also discuss gross profit; gross profit margin; selling general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales; operating profit; operating profit margin; net income; and earnings per share on a diluted basis excluding the impact of the items described in the press release; and earnings per share on a currency-neutral basis.
A full reconciliation with the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the press release and is posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.colgate.com.
We're very pleased with our results for the start of 2012.
The solid top line that we saw build through the year last year has continued into the first quarter with good organic sales growth composed of balanced pricing and volume.
And as you'll hear when we go through the divisions our pricing actions have not suppressed volume or market share.
On a global basis our market shares are up in 8 of 12 categories and market shares are up nicely in all regions of the world.
Our new product launches have met with success and we have more in the pipeline to continue the momentum.
Despite continued commodity cost pressures our gross margin increased sequentially from the fourth quarter of 2011 by 50 basis points as we told you it would.
And as Ian said in the press release our expectation is that gross margin should increase nicely for full year 2012.
Our Funding the Growth program continues to deliver substantial savings across the P&amp;L.
We're particularly pleased with the progress we have been making on our overhead costs which were down 40 basis points.
Our ongoing focus in this area is delivering good results.
And as we continue to implement further savings projects we expect this good performance to continue.
As you know increasing gross margins and reducing fixed costs allow us to increase advertising behind our businesses at the same time as growing the bottom line.
So while concerns remain regarding macroeconomic conditions in the developed markets we're cautiously optimistic.
Although forecasts for GDP growth remain modest we are seeing growth across our categories which is encouraging.
The emerging markets over half of our business continued to perform very well despite continued competitive activity as all manufacturers see these regions as an opportunity for growth.
As you know we have been in these markets for many years and have established strong franchises which have continued to grow.
Our balance sheet remains healthy and cash generation for the full year should continue to be strong.
So let's turn to the divisions.
Starting with North America.
We're very pleased with our results in North America where we delivered solid organic sales growth of 5.5%.
For the second quarter in a row we had positive pricing after 9 consecutive quarters of negative pricing.
And while we still need to be cautious relative to the macroeconomic environment and general consumer spending habits it was very encouraging to see positive dollar category growth in all our categories with our overall consumption outpacing that category growth.
And in addition the very heavy promotional activity on the part of some of our competitors seems to have lessened which bodes well for everyone.
As referenced in the press release our all-outlet  toothpaste share increased a full point in the quarter widening the gap with our nearest competitor to over 3 points.
The momentum behind our super premium-priced Colgate Optic White toothpaste continues as we have created buzz among stylists celebrity influencers and magazines.
And in addition this successful new product has won awards in a number of consumer surveys for Best New Product.
Our relaunch of Colgate Total Advanced toothpaste has also met with success supported by effective in-store activities and 2 new television commercials: one for the general market; and one for our Hispanic consumers which is being aired on key Hispanic networks.
As you know our share of the Hispanic market is very strong about 50% year-to-date.
Our manual toothbrush share was up in the quarter up 2 full points to 34.6% on a year-to-date basis.
Part of this success was driven by relevant toothbrush offerings to complement our strong brand equities in toothpaste: Colgate Optic White Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief and Colgate Max.
This quarter we are launching Colgate 360º Total Advanced manual toothbrush to offer a regimen alongside our toothpaste.
The toothbrush has a strong motivating claim.
It removes 3x the bacteria with a surround bristle pattern wraparound cleaner and a cheek and tongue cleaner.
The super premium packaging increases shelf presence.
This new product will tie in with the #1 Colgate equity and its media support and allow for powerful joint displays in store.
In the quarter we also strengthened our market-leading position in liquid hand soap up over a point to 38.2% on a year-to-date basis.
And encouragingly the second-largest player private label saw share declines in the quarter due in part to our steady stream of new product innovation accompanied by impactful in-store activity.
And we're excited about our lineup of new products slated for the balance of the year and expect the momentum to continue in this region.
Turning then to Europe/South Pacific.
This region remains challenging from a macroeconomic standpoint.
Economic difficulties including very high unemployment are most prominent in Greece Portugal Spain and Italy while Germany exhibits a more positive outlook.
So in that light we're pleased that categories in which we do business are exhibiting growth although that growth is modest.
And we are growing market share in virtually all of our oral care segments: toothpaste manual toothbrushes and mouthwash.
In toothpaste our regional market share is up 0.5 point on a year-to-date basis to 33.4% with the most recent share at 33.6% and this is in the face of heightened competitive activity in many markets.
In manual toothbrushes our regional market share is up 1.5 points.
And in the U.K.
we've achieved leadership with a share of 32.9% up over 7 points on a year-to-date basis.
In mouthwash our share in the region is up 30 basis points year-over-year.
Innovation is key to driving growth and market share in the developed markets and we're pleased with the breadth of new product activity so far this year with more to come.
Building on the success of Max White One toothpaste across the region in the second quarter we will be adding manual toothbrushes and mouthwash extending the portfolio to provide a full range of whitening products.
In addition we will be redesigning the packaging to conform with a very impactful Colgate Optic White design which has met with such great success here in the U.S.
and in select markets at the same time we will be introducing the Colgate Max White Professional Whitening Kit to the dental profession.
Also in the second quarter we will be expanding our launch of Colgate Total Pro Gum Health toothpaste.
Initial markets of Romania and Greece have had promising early results and we will be expanding the bundle to an additional 7 countries in this quarter.
The full offering of a premium-priced toothpaste mouthwash toothbrush floss and interdental brushes will be supported by a robust integrated marketing campaign including a very strong professional plan.
Currently we are underrepresented in the gum segment so this provides an interesting opportunity.
The Sanex integration continues to move forward and along with it a range of new products in deodorants and bath and shower gels.
In particular we're very encouraged by the Sanex Zero line which provides a range of products with mild biodegradable ingredients approved by dermatologists.
In Home Care under the Ajax brand name we will be launching a pure home range of cleaners which both purifies surfaces from dirt and bacteria and help purify the air with fragrance from essential oils.
Turning now to Latin America.
Strong performance continues in Latin America with regional market shares increasing in toothpaste manual toothbrushes mouthwash bar soaps hand dish liquid cleaners and fabric conditioners.
Our regional toothpaste share is at a record 79.3%.
Both Mexico and Brazil where competitive activity has been intense increased their toothpaste share by about 2 points on a year-to-date basis.
We told you last quarter about the successful launch of Colgate Luminous White in both of these markets and that success has continued particularly with the launch of a companion toothbrush.
The Luminous range toothpaste toothbrush and mouthwash has now expanded to Colombia Argentina Central America Chile and Uruguay.
Our leading regional toothbrush share of 41.6% is up over 1 point on a year-to-date basis.
We lead the market in every country but Mexico where our share is up 70 basis points on a year-to-date basis to 40.5% fast closing the gap with our nearest competitor.
In mouthwash our regional market share is up 5.6 points year-to-date to 37% just a little over 4 points behind the market leader.
The gap was over 29 points in 2007.
And we now have leadership positions in Venezuela Argentina Central America Paraguay and Uruguay.
In bar soaps our regional increase in share of almost 2 points year-to-date 31.1% is driven in part by success in our 2 largest markets Mexico and Brazil where our share increased 3 points and over 1.5 points respectively.
In Mexico we relaunched our Palmolive Naturals line along with a new variant Coconut and Cotton.
In Brazil successful new product launches under the Protex equity have helped narrow the gap with the #1 player from over 17 points to just over 2 in the last 5 years.
Total bar soap share in that country is 24.5% up over 1.5 points from the year-ago period.
So we're excited about the continued stream of innovations.
In oral care as in Europe we will be launching Colgate Total Professional Gum Health toothpaste.
Two exciting new deodorants are Lady Speed Stick and Speed Stick Naturals and Protect.
Under the Palmolive brand name we will be expanding a line of pomegranate toilet soap shampoo and shower gel which is already being sold very successfully in Brazil.
Turning then to Greater Asia/Africa.
Top line results in this division were excellent as we continue to grow volume and market share.
Good toothpaste market share gains across many countries were referenced in the press release.
More specifically in India our share increased 150 basis points to 52.3% on a year-to-date basis and in the latest period reached 53%.
The market share gain was broad-based across our entire portfolio of products both at affordable price points as well as the premium end because as you know in this vast country our strategy is to offer a broad toothpaste product portfolio covering a full range of pricing to appeal to all income levels.
In China where the business is growing nicely our market share increased 210 basis points to 34.6% gaining from other multinational competitors.
In Thailand our market share increased 80 basis points to date -- year-to-date to 53.1% driven in part from good growth in the Sensitive segments.
And in Turkey our share was up 170 basis points year-to-date 26.1%.
Mouthwash market share saw explosive growth in China India Thailand Malaysia Singapore Hong Kong and Vietnam.
In China our share increased 280 basis points year-to-date to 32.7% with the most recent share at 33.1%.
Colgate Plax Green Tea an innovation developed particularly for the Chinese consumer helped drive the share.
To help the expansion of our Sensitivity products we will be launching both Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief and Enamel Protect toothpaste and Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief mouthwash this quarter.
In addition we will be rolling out our Slim Soft toothbrush to more countries and in Thailand we will launch a Protex for men line.
So finally turning to Hill's.
Hill's produced another quarter of organic growth despite a modest decline in volume.
Pricing was up 3.5% reflecting prior period increases in line with competition thus ensuring we are properly positioned on the shelf.
As we've previously discussed here in the U.S.
the fastest-growing segment is Naturals a segment consisting of dozens of brands where we are underrepresented.
The launch of Hill's Science Diet Ideal Balance late last year was an initiative to address the situation and it has had an impact.
Shipments in the quarter were ahead of forecast.
Data shows that we are bringing new consumers into the Pet Superstores as well as drawing consumers of Naturals brand to Hill's.
In February we launched a full integrated marketing campaign to support Hill's Science Diet Ideal Balance with both traditional and digital media national print ads FSIs and off-shelf displays and retailer promotions.
Also in the U.S.
in the second half of the year we're excited about a complete relaunch of our Science Diet business.
This relaunch will improve the perceived science of quality in the products enhance the shopping experience with new packaging design and strengthen and differentiate our message.
Our vet-exclusive Hill's Science Diet Healthy Advantage also continues to do well driving share in the U.S.
vet channel.
New products in our Prescription Diet line such as PD y/d Feline Thyroid Health in the U.S.
and Canada and PD j/d Glucosamine and Chondroitin have helped drive our leadership share of over 70% in this category and continue to grow veterinary recommendations.
In Europe we're in the process of launching a taste upgrade across our Science Plan portfolio for both dogs and cats.
Feline Adult Chicken was the first diet to be reformulated and introduced in the fourth quarter of last year.
The remainder of the portfolio is flowing through and in all instances is parity or superior in taste to the leading competitor a significant improvement.
As in the Colgate business the high-growth markets represent a good opportunity for Hill's and are growing very nicely as we expand distribution in countries such as Russia and Brazil.
So in summary we are very pleased with the way 2012 has started.
Clearly the momentum in our business which we enjoyed as we exited 2011 is continuing into this year.
Our strategies are working.
Our ongoing Funding the Growth program continues to deliver significant savings and we expect that to continue.
Our worldwide focus on increasing advertising is resulting in excellent sales and volume growth and our market shares are healthy and increasing around the world.
We continue to expect that volume growth for 2012 should be in the 4% to 7% range and that gross margin should increase between 75 and 125 basis points.
And we do look forward to sharing our progress as we go through the remainder of the year.
That's all I had for prepared remarks and now if we could open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just as you're walking through kind of the different regions it sounds like the only region where you're seeing less competitive activity is North America.
I didn't know if that was what you think is a start of a trend or if there's any reason why that's -- why it's pulled back there but not other regions.
No I would say that -- and several of us have been traveling quite extensively as you would imagine this year.
And I would say that one is seeing slightly reduced levels of competitive activity everywhere you go still elevated but lesser than in the past.
And as I said on the previous call if we can move into a situation where the competition is on innovation this is the way we believe we are well equipped and would prefer to compete.
But it's not limited to the U.S.
I would say there are early indications in other geographies as well although still at elevated levels.
We'll take our next question from Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> The question I have is on the profit margin in North America down year-over-year.
I think and I know there isn't too much value on just one quarter but the first quarter margin 24.2% I think is the lowest margin we've seen in the U.S.
for a long time.
So was that just a timing of marketing spending? Is that something that's going to pick up and improve during the course of the year? Maybe just a little more color on that.
Sure Wendy.
The answer is that it is as it was in the fourth quarter entirely intentional.
This is the trial-building investment spend behind Optic White and our other innovation initiatives in North of America -- North America.
You will remember we said that in the fourth quarter.
And that continues to be the case very much in the first quarter.
And then as the year unfolds that situation will improve.
So a conscious decision to invest behind super premium innovation which is allowing us to grow share to grow the top line and to increase pricing for the second consecutive quarter in that geography.
We'll go next to Linda Bolton-Weiser with Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just actually a follow-on question to what you just answered for Wendy.
I mean if you look at 2011 and kind of the pattern of the North American operating margin you did have a blip up to 27.4% in the third quarter but actually the full year margin was lower than it was in the first quarter of 2011.
So I don't really see the pattern that you're talking about that there was heavy spend and then the margin improved later in the year.
So can you just kind of clarify what you just said and then how 2012 will unfold? And then my second question is just on the overall corporate kind of volume and pricing progression.
I mean you're guiding to 4% volume growth for the year and yet it was only 3% in the quarter.
Should I think about that as the volume growth will accelerate as we see the pricing comparison come off a little and be less positive as the year progresses? Is that the way to think about it? And I'm curious about if you're price comparison will peak in the first or second quarter as being the most favorable.
Okay Linda.
Let me come back to North America and be quite clear here.
If you look at 2011 to your point as I was saying earlier to Wendy indeed our operating margin declined in the fourth quarter because of the investment spending behind the Optic White toothpaste.
And it has stayed at a low level because of the continued investment behind the trial-building spending on Optic and then will improve across the balance of the year the balance of the year being 2012 and not 2011.
If you take the volume for the balance of the year we're actually extremely pleased with the way this year started and the balance we have between volume and pricing.
In fact ex-divested the volume in the first quarter for the total company was 4.4% and that is with the pricing that we garnered as well.
And as Bina said we did that without impacting our market share progression.
Indeed our market shares improved.
So I think the first quarter is indeed a good indicator that we can continue that pace for the balance of the year that 6% to 7% organic growth that we talked about on the fourth quarter.
And that's largely related to the innovation stream that we have the Optic that is rolling -- Optic White toothpaste that is rolling around the world and the other innovations that Bina had mentioned.
So we are quite comfortable with that volume progression.
We'll take our next question from Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Guys on Latin American margins I guess you cited in the press release FX and inflation is hitting SG&amp;A.
And I guess I was wondering if you could talk a little bit in more detail about how big those might have been.
Because I was surprised that margins would be down in a plus 10 pricing quarter.
And then as a follow-up to that do your -- does your outlook take into account the big move the real has had so you mark-to-market for a BRL 1.89 right now? The -- to come specifically to your question on the real we are BRL 1.82.
So we're on market for the real.
Latin America we're super pleased with our performance in Latin America both on the top line and on the bottom line.
The organic growth was indeed very very strong and we increased our investment behind the growth initiatives that we have.
And that of course is a Latin America in the context of pricing actions that have taken place in Venezuela which created a great degree of uncertainty in the first quarter which led to the decline in Venezuelan volume that was called out in the press release.
So gross profit margin improved sequentially in the first quarter indeed improved year-on-year and we see that improving across the balance of the year.
So we're quite happy with Latin America.
We'll go next to Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick one here.
I guess in terms of gross margin I want to talk about how you get to the 75 to 125 this year.
And obviously it's a good number given where we've been the last couple of years.
But if I could just kind of do a back of the envelope raw materials last year call it a 4-point or 400 basis point drag to gross margin.
This year you're looking at something a little bit better than that probably 100 basis point drag.
Your Funding the Growth savings is a 200 basis point positive to gross margin.
Pricing is probably 100 basis points.
So that right there that net is about 200 basis points to the positive.
So what's the offset given that promotion spending is easing a little bit? Well let's -- good set-up Joe.
It's exactly the way we rehearsed it.
Let me as a start point on this because in many of the notes there seems to be a lot of questioning about the gross margin progression.
So if we take the first quarter of this year and that 20 basis point reduction versus prior year which we were very pleased about obviously a 50 basis-point improvement versus the fourth quarter.
But if you do our customary roll-forward last year's gross profit was 58.4%.
This year with the pricing we have taken along with good volume I would add that gives you an add of 140 basis points.
Our Funding the Growth started the year actually slightly better than last year.
We pick up another 140 basis points there.
Material pricing a headwind of 280 basis points.
So -- and if you go back you will see that that is easing from the second half of last year.
So net -- the total net savings are negative 140 basically offsetting with the pricing and then some minor other changes for the remaining 20 basis points.
And if you look across the balance of the year our material price expansion we're still looking at that 2% to 3% range of increase which I think is more of a headwind than you have estimated in there.
And we would expect as you suggest our Funding the Growth to continue to progress rather like it has in prior years.
Obviously we'll get a better benefit from pricing this year than prior.
And that makes us comfortable with the 75 to 125 basis points.
So we think it is well positioned and quite achievable.
And of course you come up against more favorable comps with gross margins down quite substantially across the second half of 2011.
So we're very pleased with our ability to take pricing and maintain volume.
And so it is that lesser headwind better pricing our traditional Funding the Growth and easier comparisons that make the year we think very doable.
We'll go next to Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I want to spend some time on 2 segments if possible please.
That's in Latin America in particular just around volume.
So first in Latin America it's 3.5% volume that obviously includes mix.
I don't know whether that makes this positive or negative so some indication there would be helpful.
But that's lower than we at least would have expected and granted you took higher pricing.
But I'm trying to get underneath that and trying to understand what the volume and price growth was excluding Venezuela just give us a better sense of what the underlying is.
And also it sounds like you gained share there volume and value probably.
And if it was volume and value share gains in Latin America what did you see the category growing? That's the Latin America question.
The other one is around pets and it's at least in my count I guess 11 of the last 13 quarters that we've seen volume being negative.
But we're continuing to hear we're having progress on resetting the pack sizes and the pricing.
We're going after Naturals in a better way.
But is there something more fundamental that's a problem? And it may be the brand it may be you but what about macro? What about competition? What about - just like fewer births or people adopting fewer pets? I mean what are the other potential dynamics there? Because it sounds like you guys are taking some of the right steps but the volumes just aren't there yet.
So some indication on those 2 would be great please.
Okay Ali.
Thanks for both questions.
In Latin America you are right.
We faced a headwind of Venezuela as a drag because of the announced pricing and the uncertainty in the marketplace.
So retailers the distributors and wholesalers were simply not buying.
Indeed our organic growth if you were to exclude Venezuela would be in the mid-teens.
And our volume growth in Latin America would be between 8% and 9% which we view as very healthy.
And frankly you could argue that we saw the worst of Venezuela in the first quarter with people not buying.
The new pricing is at retail now on our brands.
We have done all of the things anybody would expect us to do in terms of rationalizing our portfolio maximizing local production and by the way continuing to build market share in Venezuela.
So we feel real good about Latin America as you say also significant pricing beyond Venezuela where of course there will be no new pricing in 2012 assumed.
So with that big slug of pricing in the first quarter we end the Venezuela thing a little bit behind us.
We think we will see continued growth progression on the volume line accelerating from the first quarter level as we continue to build market share as Bina laid out with an innovation-led plan across Latin America.
So we like our prospects in Latin America very much.
If you turn to pet I would characterize it the following way.
The point on pricing was merely meant to say that in terms of the new pricing taken on our pet nutrition business that is pricing that this time followed competitors.
So on that business the pricing we have at the shelves today is in line with our competitors.
That pricing has rebuilt gross profit margin on that business and allowed us to put the advertising investment we have behind the beginnings of what really is the most important objective for the Hill's business which is to compete more effectively in the Naturals segment in the United States.
Ideal balance is a very good beginning.
It is a product that takes the scientific heritage of Hill's and makes it more of a natural offering entering Naturals the Hill's way rather than as a pure-play Naturals product.
Off to a good start building distribution building volume building market share in trial and the repeat rates are good.
But that's only part of the story and we're not happy with the progress we have made in terms of penetrating Naturals the fastest-growing segment.
And really these are the competitors that are creating an opportunity that we have to create.
It's these Naturals brands of which I think at last count there were something like 99 in the U.S.
that are the biggest competitors.
And the relaunch of Science Diet at the middle of this year which is over 60% of the U.S.
business will see those products more competitive with Naturals offerings in terms of the ingredients in terms of the messaging in terms of the packaging even in terms of the listing of the ingredients on the bag.
And we think that is going to be a very significant step forward in reestablishing our competitiveness in the overall category by establishing our competitiveness in the Naturals segments of the category.
So we think we have stabilized the business and we expect that stability to maintain for the first half and then a return to volume growth in the second half behind that Science Diet restage.
So yes there are competitive issues.
The competitive issue though is Naturals and we think we have the plan in place for Hill's Science Diet to effectively compete in that Naturals segment.
The other 40% of the business which is the Prescription Diet with over a 70 market share is doing extraordinarily well because that is based on the veterinary recommendation of proven -- clinically proven Hill's technology.
We'll take our next question from Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Ian do you expect to take any further pricing this year? Have you already taken all your price increases already? And then also can you discuss the pricing environment specifically in Europe? You mentioned promotions improving a bit globally.
Is that also true in Europe just given the pricing looks pretty difficult still in the Q1 results in Europe? Yes there are 2 answers then.
The first is that if you think about our pricing for 2012 on the last call we said that about half of that pricing in 2012 was rollover from 2011.
In fact that's now about 63% because forward pricing in Venezuela has now been taken off the table.
Of the remaining 37% of pricing we had to take in 2012 fully 80% of it will be to market by the first half of this year.
And we're really quite encouraged by the way we've been able to balance pricing and volume with our execution in the first quarter and believe that that can continue as we implement the rest of our pricing.
The European situation I think as we have said before continues to be perhaps among the toughest for our industry never mind our company.
As we have said many times the categories in which we do business are growing high-single digits in the emerging markets and we are blessed by having over 50% of our business in those markets.
And the categories in North America are growing low-single digit and the categories in Europe are growing very low-single digit and in some cases flat.
That's not new.
That is a known phenomenon and we are approaching Europe to try and improve our pricing position there particularly with some of the premium innovation we have like on the Sanex business.
As you say our first quarter pricing was still tough but it is our expectation that we hope to make progress across the balance of the year with pricing in Europe.
And I think the overriding point to make in those slower growth parts of the world come back to the actions that we have discussed for a couple of years now which are our continued efforts to revisit our structural costs to make sure that they are in line with the slower rates of growth that frankly we can envisage for the near-term future.
And you saw some of that in the first quarter with that 40 basis points reduction in our overhead.
So hopeful to make progress on pricing in Europe super pleased about 2 back-to-back quarters of positive pricing here in North America and the European environment continues to be tough.
We'll go next to Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you could dive a little deeper into China and Russia and what trends are like on your businesses there? Sure Caroline.
I'm happy to do so.
They were up which are always good trends.
Sales growth up indeed across the BRIC businesses: the Brazil the Russia the India the China very good and encouraging top line organic growth.
Our market shares continue to be very strong.
The increase in China that Bina mentioned earlier now approaching 35%.
The Brazilian share that's now approaching 72%.
And Indian share that in the more recent periods has now broken through 50% and is at 53%; and Russia holding a strong leadership position at between 32% and 33% double the share of our nearest multinational competitors.
So we're very encouraged by the good start to the year in terms of organic growth and on top of that the share progress that we are making.
We'll take our next question from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just want to clarify one thing Ian which is when you were you're talking about your volume guidance you talked about I guess a 4.5% volume -- unit volume growth start to the year for the first quarter which I believe includes Sanex but excludes divestitures.
So I guess when you guys talk about the 3% to 4% volume growth is that what you're using as the metric which is the including Sanex but excluding divestitures? Yes it is John.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- so if we look at it Sanex is probably adding sort of 1.5 currently.
So that's probably a little less than sort of that 75 basis points over the course of the year is that a fair statement? Yes between -- on the year between 75 and 100 basis points.
You're about right in Sanex.
We'll take our next question from Alice Longley with Buckingham Researchnex.
And Alice it does appear that you have disconnected from the queue.
[Operator Instructions]  We'll take our next question from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk about what the drivers of the volume acceleration are going to be as the year progresses to get into that sort of 4% to 7% range? Is it lapping the pricing in the back of the year? Or do you think that maybe there'll be some category acceleration? And then I'm going to try to ask 2 questions in 1.
Just in India as an aside how much of that growth in the quarter was sort of activity ahead of the competitors' launch and how much of that was the sort of natural running the business the way you've always run it? To answer the second question none.
It was all how we run and have run our Indian business.
And so as I said earlier we are very pleased with that.
In terms of volume acceleration obviously as I indicated earlier the pricing we have taken 80% of it will be in place of the new pricing across the balance of the year and that's only 37% of the pricing that we plan to take in 2012.
So you're right to a certain extent the pricing environment will be more favorable.
And clearly it is importantly driven by our innovation stream.
And I would say our marketing programs and the investment behind those marketing programs which as we have already seen at the beginning of this year are beginning to build share for us.
And I think as I alluded although I wouldn't want to over indicate this we are beginning to see in some markets perhaps some more rational promotional environment and we feel quite good about our ability to compete innovation against innovation.
So that would give us the -- or it does give us the confidence for our balance of year.
We'll go next to Joe Lachky with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess sticking with volume real quick specifically in North America.
I guess we talked pricing and margin in North America but the North American volume in that mid-single-digit range do you see that's sustainable going forward? Or is it kind of a onetime factor of like easy year-over-year comps or innovation selling with Optic White? We -- I would say Joe obviously there is a degree of the trial building activity that we have on the Optic.
We like the way the share is building I have to say.
And so that is favorable for us.
And I think for the year certainly the volume in North America will stay in the single digits perhaps modestly off what we've seen in the first quarter.
We'll take our next question from Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
Sorry I got cut off briefly there.
So I hope I'm not asking a question that somebody else asked in the meanwhile.
But anyway my question's about operating margins for the year versus a year ago for the different geographic segments and particularly in North America you said that margins should improve through the year but I assume that's sequentially.
Can operating margins for the year in North America be higher than a year ago even down and the same for Latin America and Europe those 3 regions? Alice I was responding when I gave that information to a very specific question about the first quarter operating margin in North America which was the continuation of our investment spend in the fourth quarter of last year.
You know that we do not provide operating margins by our divisions prospectively.
And so I bring you back to the way we have been thinking about this year since it started which is to achieve the kind of volume growth we have seen in the first quarter while delivering pricing that enables us along with our Funding the Growth programs to increase that gross margin by the 75 to 120 basis points that we have mentioned before at the same time working hard to lower our overheads as a percentage of sales rather like we have accomplished in the first quarter so that we can continue to take what are healthy levels of advertising spending and continue to increase them and deliver the bottom line progress that we reaffirmed in the release this morning.
And that's how the year will come together across our various geographies around the world.
We'll take our next question from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Ian if we can come back to the gross margin progression a little bit.
Your guidance certainly 75 to 120 basis points seems to be very achievable because it doesn't even get you back to the 2010 level and you are going to have better pricing.
Commodities certainly weren't up 2% to 3% last year.
I don't know whether you provided that information but certainly it was much higher than that.
And you have 2 savings streams you have Funding the Growth and then you have synchronizing supply and demand.
So the question basically is is this conservatism? Or I -- it's difficult for me to believe that you cannot do better than 125 basis points given all these points.
Well we thank you for your confidence and optimism Javier.
I must say the general sentiment coming into this year has been that I guess an undercurrent of people feeling that our 75 to 125 basis points was too aggressive on the upside.
So I can only repeat that we believe it is a reasonable objective and estimate on our part.
It is driven precisely by the streams that you indicate.
We expect to see sequential improvement progressive improvement as we have said before as the year unfolds.
And oh Allah that you would be right but our estimation is still the 75 to 125.
We'll take our next question from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
I have a follow-up on Venezuela.
Could you tell us what Venezuela's percentage of sales and profit is? Also if you think you've taken enough in pricing to offset inflation for this year so that your margins will be essentially flat with last year or if you expect them to decline? And then finally a lot of the media has been writing about stock-outs and the unavailability of products for consumers.
Are you seeing that in your categories and are you producing to demand? Yes Connie first Venezuela accounts for about 5% of our sales.
As you know we don't provide profitability on a subsidiary-by-subsidiary basis.
Secondly it would be fair to say I think as we have been working hard to manage Venezuela in the past that recognizing certain decisions may come.
We took appropriate actions in terms of our pricing stance to offset inflation and at the same time rationalize our portfolio to what you might call power SKUs in an environment where we are making in Venezuela over 85% of the volume that we sell.
I mentioned earlier and maybe it was when you were cut off indeed there were some dislocation in the market when the specific price reductions were announced because retailers wholesalers and distributors in some cases stopped buying as they were waiting for clarity about what would actually happen in the marketplace and not wanting to buy if a price was then going to go down.
And we are very much as a company providing our products to the marketplace.
But of course in the early part of this year as people retailers were not buying products there were clearly gaps on the shelves.
We are supplying the market now and our market shares continue to be at very very strong levels.
So we think as we have done in the past we have been responsibly managing Venezuela and appropriately managing Venezuela and maintaining our market position as we do so.
We'll take our next question from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just want to ask a little bit about the Total relaunch in North America.
My understanding is that it was in the first quarter.
And I know the Nielsen data should be taken with a very large grain of salt but it did look like the volume for the Total business is actually quite weak or hasn't really shown any impact of what would look like a relaunch.
So can you just give us an idea when the relaunch happened when the advertising was launching and what you kind of see for that going forward? Sure Lauren.
The answer is in fact North America was our lead country from around the world for launching Colgate -- relaunching I'm sorry Colgate Total.
And indeed that took place the early part of the second half last year and we made good progress on the Total business.
Then of course we have now switched to Optic in the fourth quarter and first quarter this year.
And our attentions are very squarely on building trial and the repeat that we know goes with that trial with the super premium offering of Optic.
And so as the year progresses I think you can expect that relationship to balance out.
But there's no question in the Nielsen data you will see that the focus on Optic has indeed slowed the progression on Total.
We'll take our next question from Mark Astrachan with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Back on Hill's.
As I said previously the volumes have been weak although operating margin has improved over the last few years.
I guess I'm curious if there's been a change to managing the business more for cash I guess or do you think that you can get back to a little bit single-digit volume growth again? And sort of related to what you said about relaunching the business how do you think about an acquisition of a Natural brand as opposed to simply supplementing it with some of the relaunches that sort of reposition it as a more natural product? Yes we view Hill's as a growth business.
We view the emotional connection that consumers have with products they feed to their pets.
Pets in today's society who are becoming members of a family and sometimes it's difficult to know whether the parents dote more on their children or their pets.
It's close but we like both.
We bring validated clinical science that delivers real benefit and garners veterinary endorsement and commands pricing and enviable gross margins.
So we see this as a growth business and we like it.
The singular issue and it is a U.S.
issue is having more of a share of the Naturals segments.
And that's something that we have to do in the context of the equity that is Hill's which is a science-based equity.
Ideal Balance is a start and the relaunch in the middle of the year makes the Hill's Science side offering much more competitive with those Naturals brands.
Would we consider acquiring a business? Yes we would.
And we have said publicly before that our acquisition interests are in oral care are in pet nutrition and are in personal care.
And so strategically the answer is yes of course the other book end of our acquisition strategy is that the economics have to make sense.
So yes strategically and you can rest assured that any assessment we might make would be balanced with the economic aspect of the equation as well but there is no strategic negative with the idea of potentially acquiring such a business at some time.
We'll go next to Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just housekeeping and then just a bigger picture question.
Housekeeping on my trip [ph] you said on currency the impacts of the full year.
Are we still thinking 3 to 4 on the top line? And then on just I guess the bigger picture as many of your peers are talking about accelerating their investments in emerging markets and getting more of that white space expansion clearly you guys have decades of experience ahead of them.
And I'm just -- outside of toothpaste just wondering when you look at your categories where is there still more meaningful opportunity to expand into markets where you're currently not? The currency this year -- Yes Jason we're kind of in the same place.
As we said on the last call top line about 3%; bottom line about 3.5% to 4%.
So that's the housekeeping.
Emerging markets you're right.
We made investments and continue to make investments but we made substantial investments in those emerging markets many many years ago and continue to make them as we continue to grow the way we do.
And obviously as you suggest one of the opportunities we have which we constantly assess is the ability to companion strong oral care businesses with personal care category entries.
And I think that's part of our strategy that you could see progressing as we go forward.
And our last question today will come from Lee First [ph] with Wellington Shields.
What can you tell us about the components of your spending mix behind your brands? Well the -- it is many which is the reason I hesitate.
We think about our engagements as we call it with consumers holistically.
And there used to be that old adage that trade spending was bad and advertising was good.
And I think today with the techniques available to us we as marketers need to broaden our thinking to include all ways of touching the consumer.
So we think about it as direct to consumer which means engaging the consumer before they are buying our brand.
And of course we do this in a variety of ways: the traditional television radio print media.
And remember with over half of our business in the emerging markets television penetration and its strength as a mass medium is still absolute.
But in some of the developed markets we find ourselves better able to engage with consumers depending on our brands depending on them as a targeting audience using digital which we experiment with quite broadly and in some geographies like the U.S.
spend between 13% and 15% of their working media on digital.
We also use digital in more you might say mundane ways but directly messaging not to a smartphone but to a mobile phone in parts of the world where otherwise you wouldn't be able to reach that consumer.
And of course we do the many educational programs that you may know us for like Bright Smiles Bright Future seeking to get kids into good brushing habits and of course a lifetime of using Colgate products.
And the work we do with dental and veterinary professionals to convey the clinical strength of our products so they can recommend them confidence.
And we also which comes back to the holistic side of things think about consumers as shoppers.
And today there are many techniques that you can use in the retail environment that are very effective and very strong from a brand building point of view but wouldn't technically come out of the so-called below-the-line advertising measure.
They might be captured in trade spending which comes between the gross sale and the net sale but we are adopting and deploying many techniques in that area as well.
So that's how we think about it and of course we do all of that on a market-by-market category-by-category brand-by-brand basis with a focus on return on investment.
And we have no further questions in our queue.
Okay.
Well thanks everyone for joining us.
We enjoyed sharing with you what we think is a strong start to 2012.
And as is customary I would particularly like to thank all the Colgate folks around the world who work so hard to make this kind of result happen.
Thanks everybody.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Company's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and is being simulcast live at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
[Operator Instructions] At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Bina Thompson.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Ian Cook Chairman President and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller; and Elaine Paik Treasurer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements and these statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Statements.
We will discuss organic sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and divestitures.
We will also discuss gross profit operating profit net income and earnings per share excluding the impact of the onetime items described in the press release.
A full reconciliation with the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the press release and is posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.colgatepalmolive.com We're very pleased with our second quarter results particularly in light of an increasingly unpredictable global economy.
Of particular note is our organic sales growth which was positive in every division and up double-digit in the emerging markets accelerating from the first quarter's strong pace.
The total company organic sales growth of 8% reflected a good balance between volume of 4.5% and price of 3.5%.
Our market shares are strong around the world and our categories are growing.
Even in the developed markets we see category growth albeit modest.
And we believe we have the right strategies and plans in place for 2012 and beyond.
As you know 1 of our 4 strategic initiatives is innovation for growth and that focus has been one of the key drivers of our top line momentum.
You'll hear more about recent launches as well as new products to come when we go through the divisions.
Gross margin increased 50 basis points and continues to be higher than the fourth quarter of last year.
The increase was somewhat less than previously anticipated due primarily to higher foreign exchange transaction costs from a rapidly strengthening dollar during the quarter.
However we expect gross margin to increase sequentially in the third and fourth quarter and to be up within our targeted range of 75 to 125 basis points for the full year.
Our increase in margin and control of overheads has allowed us to increase advertising both absolutely and as a percent of sales as we told you we would.
And with EPS as expected overall a healthy income statement.
Earnings per share increased 6% and was up strong double-digit on a currency-neutral basis.
Our balance sheet remains strong both inventory and receivable days declined year-over-year and our free cash flow before dividends increased 8%.
So then let's turn to the divisions.
First starting with North America.
Our business in North America remains solid.
Our categories are still growing and we are growing even faster.
Both for the quarter and on a year-to-date basis our all-outlet market shares are up in toothpaste manual toothbrushes liquid hand soaps bar soaps body wash all-purpose cleaners and fabric conditioner.
Our strong advertising support behind a broad array of new products has helped drive these results.
We're very pleased with the continued strong performance of Colgate Optic White toothpaste and are very excited about the launch this quarter of Colgate Optic White mouthwash to complete the existing regimen of toothpaste and toothbrush.
This mouthwash our first entry into the U.S.
market effectively whitens teeth and freshens breath.
The alcohol-free formula helps prevent -- protect against future stains and reaches hard-to-brush areas.
It kills bad breath germs while being enamel-safe.
Reception by the trade has been excellent.
In addition to the mouthwash we're also launching Colgate Optic White enamel white toothpaste which fortifies enamel through mineralization for strong teeth while providing a whitening benefit.
This bundle addresses a large segment of whitening users and nonusers who fear long-term enamel damage.
Enamel variance grew 22% in 2011 and now represent almost 6% of the toothpaste market.
In personal care in both liquid hand soap and body wash we are expanding our fragrant footprint with Softsoap Pampered Hands Coconut Lime Foaming Hand Soap and Softsoap Citrus Splash &amp; Berry Fusion body wash.
The body washes are created with real fruit extracts and best-in-class wake-me-up fragrances along with strong invigorating graphics to help differentiate the products on the shelf.
In the dish liquid category we're launching Palmolive Fresh Infusions.
This new line addresses the mass market consumers' desire for affordable luxuries.
The line has premium looking packaging combined with naturally inspired fragrances: lemon thyme ginger white tea and lime basil.
Priced at a premium to a regular Palmolive dish liquid the product also is expected to deliver category growth for our customers.
Europe/South Pacific.
The macroeconomic environment in Europe continues to be difficult with low consumer confidence and high unemployment in many countries.
But despite that we were able to achieve positive volume and organic sales growth.
And as well the decline in price largely the result of increased in-store activity was the lowest it has been in 10 quarters.
And we're still seeing growth across many of our categories albeit at a modest pace.
As referenced in the press release we are increasing our strong oral care market shares in much of the region.
And as you would expect we have a rich array of new products planned for the balance of the year to continue to grow share and volume.
In the oral care category we'll be relaunching our Colgate Max White One line in the impactful red packaging that has been used so successfully in both the U.S.
as Colgate Optic White and in Latin America as Colgate Luminous.
The bundle will include toothpaste toothbrush and mouthwash.
As you would expect there will be fully integrated marketing to support the bundle's benefit of "one shade whiter in one week that lasts." To address the problem that 3 out of 4 people may suffer from gum problems we are also launching a full regimen to fight gum problems.
Colgate Total Pro Gum Health which includes toothpaste toothbrush mouth rinse and interdental devices.
The toothpaste is proven to reduce gum problems by up to 88%.
A relaunch of our professional line of mouthwashes transitioning to cylindrical bottles will offer a more modern and cleaner presentation while at the same time representing a Funding-the-growth opportunity.
In personal care we're rolling out a range reinvention for both our Palmolive Naturals shower gel line with new and improved packaging new formulas and new innovative variance as well as for our Palmolive men's shower gel.
Under our recently acquired Sanex brand we will introduce double protect deodorant for men approved by dermatologists.
This provides highly effective 48-hour protection against body odor caused by everyday stress as well as wetness caused by physical activity.
Another line of Sanex deodorants under the Zero% brand will continue to be rolled out across the regions.
This has natural mineral alum to provide natural efficacy.
Latin America.
The strong growth momentum continues throughout Latin America.
Organic sales growth accelerated from the first quarter to over 15% despite a much more difficult year-over-year comparison.
Market shares increased year-over-year in virtually every category the only exception being deodorant where we were level with the year-ago period and hair care where we declined modestly.
Our strong growth in toothpaste market share up 130 basis points year-over-year to 79.2% is driven by innovation.
Colgate Luminous White launched in Brazil and Mexico in October reached 5.4% and 5.7% respectively in year-to-date national readings.
We expanded the bundle this year to Argentina Colombia Chile Uruguay Central America and Peru.
Colgate Luminous White now accounts for 3% of the market across the region with only one SKU.
Our regional manual toothbrush share increased 130 basis points year-over-year.
We are market leaders everywhere but Mexico where we are fast closing the gap.
Our share there is at 41.9% year-to-date with the latest reading at 43.4%.
Regional mouthwash market shares are up 530 basis points on a year-to-date basis to 37.5% with the latest reading at 37.9%.
So we expect the momentum to continue in this region as we introduce more innovation into the market in the second half across categories.
Colgate Total Professional Gum Health toothpaste mentioned earlier for Europe was successfully launched in Brazil in the first quarter and is now being launched in Mexico where our toothpaste market share is now over 83%.
This month in Brazil we're launching Colgate Luminous White Enamel Shine Gel with a similar positioning to the enamel variance we are launching in the U.S.
market.
In personal care we're launching a line of Palmolive Naturals pomegranate across bath and shower gel liquid hand soap and bar soap.
We also have some exciting new products in the deodorant category later in the year.
And in home care we are introducing Fabuloso our all-purpose cleaner with an even higher fragrance level to provide more fragrance all day.
This should help continue to drive our strong regional cleaner share of 24%.
Greater Asia/Africa.
Organic sales in this region were strong up 12% as in Latin America an acceleration from the excellent first quarter results.
Across Asia as referenced in our press release toothpaste shares are strong.
In India our year-to-date market share is up to 52.8% with the most recent reading at 53.8%.
Both lower priced as well as premium priced variance contributed to the share growth increasing consumption in the rural as well as urban areas.
In China our toothpaste share climbed to 33.7% up 150 basis points on a year-to-date basis.
Both tea flavored and whitening toothpaste variants are meeting with success in that vast market.
We've spoken to you before about success in the mouthwash category and that continues particularly as we expand Colgate Plax Fresh Tea mouthwash across the region.
This new product was first launched in China in March of last year.
And in the first half of this year expanded to Thailand Hong Kong The Philippines Vietnam India and Malaysia.
The launch has been supported by a fully-integrated marketing campaign including trial-generating sampling programs and has added incremental shares.
Our overall mouthwash share is up to 20.5% in the latest period from 10.8% in 2009.
Our recent launch in Thailand for instance drove our share from 16.1% to 21.2% with Plax Fresh Tea accounting for 3 full share points.
And we've had similar success in Hong Kong and The Philippines.
Building on these strong results we will continue to roll out the bundle to other countries in the region in the second half of this year.
Another successful innovation in oral care is our Slim Soft toothbrush.
The tapered bristle segment is the fastest-growing segment in Asia and has a very big presence in Thailand.
Therefore this was a lead market and we launched there in April of this year.
We've achieved over a 3 share in 3 months since the launch with an increase in our overall share as well.
In-store activities which contributed to this success were planogram placement next to the leading competitor product testers off-shelf display and toothbrush consultants who explained the product benefits.
Follow-on countries in the quarter were China Taiwan Singapore and Hong Kong and we expect to launch it in other countries in greater Asia and Africa in the second half of this year.
Hill's.
As in every other division Hill's delivered organic sales growth in the quarter.
Our new product launches are beginning to bear fruit and we'll have more activity throughout the second half of the year.
Here in the U.S.
our recent launch of Science Diet Ideal Balance has met the objective of positioning us better to compete against the natural segment.
The product is now in full distribution and benefiting from the launch of companion Ideal Balance treats in the month of June.
In the Pet Superstores 55% of Ideal Balance consumers are new to the Hill's brand and coming from natural brands.
In addition in the U.S.
we will be relaunching our entire Science Diet line with a more consumer-friendly ingredient profile.
For example the diet will not contain any byproducts.
Across Europe we will be relaunching our Science Plan line with a much improved taste profile.
As you know Prescription Diet is also an important part of our business here in the U.S.
where our products are recommended 7:1 by veterinarians.
We've told you previously about Prescription Diet y/d with breakthrough technology for thyroid health in cats.
Launched both here and across Europe it has met with great success in the veterinary community and further built our credibility in the area of therapeutic nutrition.
Another successful new product is Prescription Diet i/d low fat for gastrointestinal health.
Shipments and distribution are way ahead of our expectations and we plan additional distribution-driving activities for the balance of the year.
So in summary we're delighted that the strong momentum from the first quarter has continued into the second quarter of 2012 particularly given the uncertain macroeconomic conditions around the world.
Our solid second quarter results reflect the ongoing success of our 4 strategic initiatives: getting close to the consumer the customer and the professions; being more efficient and effective in everything we do; continuing to deliver innovative new products around the world; and building a strong team of leaders for today and tomorrow.
We look forward to sharing our continued progress throughout the balance of the year.
And now Brian we would like to open up the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Nik Modi with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just Ian would love your thoughts -- I mean the top line was phenomenal.
I'm sure share gains have to do with a lot of that.
Can you kind of parse out what's going on in the category just sequentially? And obviously a lot of talk about consumer slowdown globally et cetera et cetera just curious what some of the category consumer dynamics were and how much you think the share gains really contributed to the top line effort this quarter? Thanks for the question Nik.
As Bina closed in her summary remarks we do believe that it is the full strategic initiatives that we have the innovation that flows from them and the quality of our integrated marketing programs that is driving the top line growth of the company.
Obviously it is a blend between market share and category growth.
You probably recall that about 53% of our business mix today is in the emerging markets.
And as we have said before the pace of growth in our categories in those markets is high-single digits and we continue to see that pace of growth sustained through the second quarter.
As we commented on the last call obviously category growth in Europe is extremely modest very-low-single digits in some cases flat.
But as we've also said before that's not a new phenomenon.
That's built into our plans and we're actually quite pleased with the volume and organic and sequentially improving pricing in Europe and the share gains behind it.
And here in the U.S.
as Bina said we have outpaced the also modest low-single-digit category growth in the United States continuing to build the market share as Bina commented and it is a combination of all of those factors that is driving the organic growth of the company.
And it is that which gives us the confidence to say that we stand by our objective of 6% to 7% organic growth rate for the full year of 2012.
We'll go next to Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So Ian I guess following up on that question I was looking for a bit more granularity in Latin America specifically where you saw a very strong top line acceleration despite slightly more difficult comparisons.
So can you give us a rundown on -- specifically in Latin America what drove the acceleration down there and your thoughts on the balance of the year and the sustainability of that? Yes.
It's -- again we were very pleased.
I remember there were some questioning when we talked about the first quarter on Latin America whether we could continue at the pace particularly given the tough comparisons second quarter on.
Again as I think Bina commented it is largely to do with our innovation stream and the consumers' reaction to that and to the marketing that is bringing those products to the consumer whether it's Optic White; whether it's Sensitive Pro-Relief where we now lead in half of the Latin countries; whether it's that continued share progress on toothbrushes with leadership in Mexico the next objective.
And consistent with our 6% to 7% organic growth for the total company for the year as we have said before we see double-digit organic growth for Latin America this year as well.
And we'll go next to Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
The first is are you seeing any increased discounting in North America or elsewhere where a competitor have lost share and has sort of committed to getting it back have you seen that happen? And can you give us a little more detail on Venezuela Brazil Mexico just any macro or micro trends that you could highlight there? By all means.
Again as we said on the last call we have seen I would say a slight moderation of competitive activity around the world.
But competitors who have lost market share we continue to see that level being intense.
We have seen in some categories around the world media investment reduced from some of those principal competitors.
And perhaps in a drive for short-term volume in selective markets a step-up in promotional activity.
Latin America for example in some countries promotional levels as they have been running 3x our level but we still see our market shares growing because the consumer is looking for value and it's value through innovation that builds market share.
And so I can't say that worldwide the discounting is lessening overall.
I would say there is a trend to that.
And I would also say from our side we are benefiting from integrated marketing programs that are actually happening in retail environments particularly in the developed world.
And those programs are brand-building programs even though they are expensed between growth and net sales in trade spending.
Turning to Latin America obviously we're extremely pleased with our continued progress.
In Brazil we see our market share pushing through 72% on toothpaste.
We see the competitor flat in that 5% to 6% range again driven by innovation.
In Mexico our year-to-date share is around 83% competitors holding in between 11% and 12%.
There has specifically in Mexico been a step-up in promotional activity.
We've seen competitors -- or a specific competitor promoting at 80% level year-to-date in some months at a 90% level and yet we are still building market share.
And in Venezuela obviously we executed the pricing changes that were mandated by the government.
We continue to make about 85% of the volume we sell.
We have rationalized and simplified our offerings down to key SKUs and our market shares are doing very well.
I think as I said the last time we have about a 96% 97% share on toothpaste which is quite pleasing.
And that really for us for the year so far and for the year to go is what our focus is.
Our focus is on getting done what we have agreed to get done in 2012 which is to bring the innovation that the consumer values to put the appropriate investment behind that innovation and to generate the funding from our productivity programs.
And I would say so far that is working globally and specific to your question in Latin America as well.
We'll go next to Christopher Ferrara with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Ian can you talk a little bit about what portion of your FX profit drag hits gross profit or COGS as opposed to SG&amp;A? Because you're obviously maintaining that gross margin target.
I'm just trying to understand the maintenance of that target.
I mean what does that suggest for the amount of FX transaction drag that you're actually absorbing like how could -- how much of it would be coming in SG&amp;A basically? Well let me focus on the gross margin because I think that's at the heart of your question and how we are approaching that and how we're thinking about that.
And let me start by giving you the normal run-through year-on-year that we provide.
So in the second quarter of this year we start with the gross profit margin of 2011 Q2 which was 57.4%.
The pricing that we have taken and I was reading that some people felt our pricing balance would come off but we've kept that pricing in the 3% 3.5% range.
Pricing added 1.4 percentage points to gross margin.
Our Funding-the-growth stepped up in the second quarter from the first as it historically always has done to 190 basis points positive exactly the same as we delivered last year.
Material prices were a negative 260 basis points and then we have some mixed divestment impact of negative 20 basis points which gets you to the 50-basis point increase.
Now if you look specifically at the transaction cost impact our gross margin had we not had that impact would have been higher by some 50 to 60 basis points in this quarter.
We obviously as we have said in our release know now that foreign exchange is going to be a headwind of 6% to 7% for the year.
We have taken the pricing that we said we would.
You will remember from the last call there was 63% of the pricing we had planned for this year that was rollover.
As we closed the second quarter some 97% of all of the pricing planned for the year has been taken and is either at market or moving to market.
On the last call we said that number would be around 80%.
And obviously we have accelerated some pricing because of the specific transaction impact and we see while transaction is still out there for the balance of the year easier comps year-on-year.
And secondly the commodity costs the underlying commodity costs are showing some favorability.
So you've got favorability on the commodity costs pricing well in place and transaction still as a negative headwind.
But all of that said we remain comfortable with the 75 to 125 basis points improvement that we have been speaking of and we plan to see a sequential improvement in gross margin over the balance of the year.
Our next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Could you just talk about some of the trends more specifically in the categories and also your volume in Mexico? Because some of the data out there says like the category slowed like 50 basis points.
And then just kind of what the sales growth was in China both volume and reported sales? And then maybe a follow-up if I can.
Yes we're not going to get into that level of country-by-country detail.
I think it would be fair to say and you have the data.
And as I said in an earlier remark obviously we have seen a slowdown in the U.S.
categories the second quarter modestly slower than the first.
And yes there has been some spillover into Mexico but not to the level that you were just referencing.
What we feel good about is that our innovation and our integrated marketing programs are seeing us push our market shares up and therefore delivering the organic growth that we had planned to deliver.
Now if you take a broader view of those emerging markets and you think about the Greater China you think about Russia you think about India and you think about Brazil we have very healthy organic growth continuing in all of those parts of the world.
And as I said earlier the category growth rates in those geographies continue to grow high-single digits and we see no change in that notwithstanding the chatter around slowing macros for those geographies.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And can I ask a follow-up just on the gross margin side of things? What is the transaction impact kind of factored into that bridge you give us every quarter? It's in the material prices.
So it's in that 260.
Of that 260 56 -- 50 to 60 was transaction.
And our next question comes from Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Research Division</strong> Could you just give a little more color on the mouthwash in the U.S.
launch? Are you getting full distribution? Will that benefit in terms of pipeline sales this quarter? And then do you have any goals for U.S.
market share to kind of be similar to what you have in other regions? Yes I guess is the answer.
We -- one of the underlying consumer benefits that we believe we have globally is this notion of regimen.
We are I think the only company that operates in the 3 largest oral care segments under the same brand name exclusively.
So you can combine a Colgate toothpaste with a Colgate toothbrush and a Colgate mouth rinse a name that the consumer has enormous trust in and a regimen that clearly we want to educate consumers and retailers want to educate consumers to use.
So we have good ambition in terms of bringing those 3 categories together.
I think when Bina spoke about the rollout of Optic around the world she mentioned that in the new markets we are going with the regimen so it is a toothpaste a toothbrush and the mouth rinse.
And in some parts of the world retail shelves and certainly retail displays take full advantage of linking the 3 categories.
So Optic of course is a single variant entry strategy thus far in the United States.
But we have good ambition for it.
And so far the retailer reception both from a distribution point of view and a support point of view has been very positive and we'll keep you updated as the end market results start to come.
We'll go next to Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
One little question and then a bigger on if emerging markets have 53% of sales about how much of their -- of your profits are they at this point? Slightly higher not much.
Just slightly? Slightly.
Okay.
And I'm a little confused about your statement that there's a slight moderation in competitive activity around the world but some with less share are hiking promotion.
And really what I'm trying to get at is is the competitor who has 11% to 12% of the toothpaste market in Mexico are -- is that the one that is hiking promotional activity internationally and in the U.S.? The -- again when you're asked a question about the world it's very difficult to give a generic answer given that we operate in over 90 countries.
So I would say as I said before that overall we are seeing a slight abatement less promotional activity.
In some specific markets and Mexico was one the promotional activity which has always been high as I think we have said consistently on calls because there is no positioning difference so if you don't have a marketing idea price tends to be the approach.
And that promotional activity which had always been north of 50% moved to 80% even though we saw media reduced in many of those markets.
On what the future will bring in that regard we will deal with when it comes.
And you can see our ability to grow and build market share and deliver a return in those geographies by focusing on innovation that provides value at a higher price and thereby brings margin and return.
And that's where we're going to stay focused.
And we'll go next to Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Ian if I understood correctly you mostly refer to price increases that you've already planned.
But in the second quarter you have these 2 big devaluations in Brazil and Mexico.
So is the rebound that needs to happen in the second half in gross margin dependent upon price increases to offset the devaluations in Mexico and Brazil? Or this can be done basically on savings and lower commodity? Thanks Javier.
The answer is it's a bit of everything.
What I was trying to say with the pricing we have taken we accelerated pricing into the second quarter because of exactly the kind of foreign exchange transaction pressure you mentioned.
But you can never react to those things quickly enough to impact a quarter therefore our gross margin would've been higher without that additional transaction impact which was not originally forecast.
So when we look at the balance of the year yes there is continued benefit from the pricing actions we've taken.
And I must say we feel pretty good at being able to take pricing in the 3% to 3.5% range overall and keep the volume north of 4% and being consistent with the 6% to 7% organic target that we have talked about previously.
It also requires us to deliver the same kind of sequential Funding-the-growth improvements that we have done historically and we clearly have programs and confidence in those programs behind it and we benefit somewhat from a more favorable underlying commodity cost environment unrelated to the transaction.
So it is the combination of all of those that has us reaffirm advancing gross margin within that 75 to 125 basis points range.
And we'll take our next question from Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Just first question on Hill's.
It seems like the volume is really -- haven't turned yet.
In fact this quarter seemed to get a little bit worse.
Is that surprising to you or were you guys expecting the push into naturals for example to really be more of a second half impact? And then secondly and I apologize if you gave this but the overhead savings in the quarter? Let me answer the second first.
You'll see SG&amp;A was up by 20 basis points and that was all advertising so overheads were flat this quarter which is a function of timing.
On Hill's frankly we would've liked to have seen less negative on volume.
We were pleased with the pricing and we're obviously pleased with the gross margin because that gives us an investment platform behind the innovation we have.
But we have still not as I said on the last call made enough progress in penetrating the faster-growing natural segment.
We're quite pleased with this Ideal Balance line that I had mentioned the last time.
This idea of marrying the science of Hill's with the ingredients that the naturals user prefers.
Distribution is building.
It's about 88% now.
Trial is building.
Repeat is healthily north of 30% which is an elevated level.
And as Bina said in terms of data we can track at retail 55% of users of Ideal Balance are new to Hill's and coming for the natural segment.
So that is already underway.
As we also said on the last call we really wouldn't see an improvement in the organic growth of Hill's until the second half of the year when we start to convert and relaunch our Science Diet business with ingredients that are more consumer-friendly to those naturals consumer.
And that process is going to run a year to 18 months to fully complete but we think as we said that it'll have an effect in the second half.
I would comment that some 40% of the U.S.
business and that natural segment is a U.S.
phenomenon not a global phenomenon but 40% of our U.S.
business is the Prescription Diet which is clinically proven to provide benefits to animals that have an ailment as recommended by and sold by vets.
And that business where we have a 70% share a 75% recommendation level is showing healthy growth both in the U.S.
and international.
So it really is about penetrating the natural segment.
And we think that the plans we have in place based on the testing we have to date will complete that job and begin the second half of the year and run through 2013.
We'll go next to Ian Gordon with S&amp;P Capital IQ.
First I have a housekeeping.
On the -- you gave the impact of FX to sales but you didn't explicitly give it -- what it was to EPS so I'm just wondering how much bigger it is on EPS? And then secondly as I look ahead to the third quarter and on the SG&amp;A line last year you were down about 70 basis points both in advertising and non-advertising.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of how much of that might reverse in the third quarter and how we should think about that for the year? Yes.
Well let's start with the foreign exchange.
You may remember Ian which is a great name by the way you may remember on the first quarter call we talked about foreign exchange impacting the top line by about 3% and the bottom line by about 4%.
As you saw in our release we're saying that based on the spot of today the bottom line impact for the year will be some 6% to 7% but the sales impact will be more in the 4% to 5% consistent with the ratios we talked about on the last call.
And in fact in this second quarter the foreign exchange impact on the bottom line was negative 9%.
And as to your second question I would stay focused on advertising.
In the area of advertising you have seen year-to-date we are up.
We expect to continue to be up both on an absolute and a ratio basis for the balance of the year and that was the approach or that is the approach we have taken coming into 2012 in order to drive the trial of the innovation program that we have.
And on the overhead side we continue to look for opportunities to find self-funding ways of becoming more efficient.
And to the extent that we generate funding to be able to do more we will tell you about that at the appropriate time.
Our next question comes from Joe Lachky with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I got a couple of questions on Sanex.
I guess since it's been a year since you bought that business sounds like you're pretty happy with it.
But how does it perform compared with your expectations? And is there any I guess regrets so to speak getting into Europe with the timing of the macro issues? And you've also mentioned with Sanex a large amount of innovation strong pipeline that they had when you made the purchase and how do you plan to roll that out globally? And then finally on the Sanex business how has organic growth been trending? Well we don't give that category level or brand level information.
I will say if you look at organic growth for each of our categories organic growth on Hill's second quarter to first is that 2%.
Organic growth on our other categories personal care which Sanex is a piece of home care and oral care are up quarter-on-quarter obviously given the overall company performance.
But in the strong mid-single-digits range for personal care and home care and double-digit for oral care.
So our category performance we think is very strong.
We have no buyer's remorse on Sanex.
We continue to be thrilled and we continue to believe in Europe.
We think the Europeans or the Greeks would still brush their teeth in euros or drachma.
And the Sanex business is increasing our market shares in the important body wash and underarm categories.
The innovation stream we have in Europe in the countries that Sanex is in today is strong.
It's an innovation stream.
You may see us take to other geographies under the Sanex name.
You may see us take it to other geographies under a Palmolive or a Softsoap or a Protex name that we have around the world.
The integration is on track.
The transfer of manufacturing which will build margin is on track.
And obviously we would reveal country expansion plans at the appropriate time given the competitive nature of those plans.
No buyer's remorse.
And we'll go next to Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on Hill's and then North America pricing.
So on Hill's just with rising input costs in the agricultural complex is there any commentary on how much more pricing you think you might need through the year that may run the risk of derailing some of your plans for some volume improvement there notwithstanding the innovation coming to market? And then North America just it's a big swing on pricing sequentially and we're just curious how much of that was -- was it list increases? Was it changes in some of your sort of retailer-specific pricing by SKU? Any kind of mix and particular changes you're making on how your pricing sizes? Because that was a surprise to me that sort of big change in pricing sequentially in North America and then obviously giving up some volume despite this continued business of Optic White.
Yes the answer on Hill's Lauren you may know we have talked about this before this is one of the few Colgate businesses that we actually hedged in a very disciplined way.
And particularly what one's reading about in corn and soya that the -- whatever impact will be in 2012 is in our plans either hedged or in our plans and will not in any way derail the programs we have in place on the Hill's business.
And some of the formula changes that we're going through will change the profile if you will of ingredients in Hill's products going forward.
So not a derailer in 2012.
And North American pricing yes it's a little bit of a lot of things.
Some list but particularly promotional planning with our Colgate business planning tool bringing some efficiency and then yes focusing on particular pricing with retailers which of course links to the promotional planning.
The mix as you know we have a dollar-weighted volume so mix is not a component of that.
But it's a little bit of all of the above.
And as we have said before for the last I think it's 10 Nielsen periods our dollar-weighted consumption in the U.S.
has outpaced the category.
And we'll go next to Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
I have a question on -- in toothpaste how the category is getting segmented by so many different applications between Optic White and Luminous and Sensitive and Enamel and Total and I'm not sure how many other ones are.
The question is at what point do you think consumers get overwhelmed by the choices? And how are you reaching them without -- how are you reaching them so that each one of these segments is successful? And the final part of the question is are you seeing an increase in per capita usage as the market becomes more segmented? The answer on per cap is in the emerging markets absolutely.
But per cap is in the developed world really how many times a day do people brush their teeth because the penetration is quite robust.
In terms of choice the consumer wants choice.
And if you don't give the consumer choice in today's world they'll go somewhere else to get the choice.
Now we talk about Enamel but Enamel ends up being a benefit within Optic.
They're buying a whitening benefit with a secondary benefit on the enamel.
You'll find many many toothpastes including Total that offer a primary benefit that is gingivitis protection but have a variant that delivers a whitening secondary benefit of which the consumer puts a value on.
I think the thing that needs to be understood in all of this is when you are bringing the new innovations you are winnowing the old whether that's a flavor variant whether that's a size or whether that's a benefit that was at one time interesting to the consumer think baking soda going back.
So it's a living process Connie.
And the way you communicate to the consumers I think Optic is a wonderful example it starts with the package.
And of course it is then surrounded by the traditional advertising mediums that we use and increasingly today what we are able to communicate at the retail level and obviously for our therapeutic offerings the clinical evidence that a professional will be relaying to their patients.
So the consumer is not changing their view but they continue to want choice in this category.
And I think some of the threads of that choice are pretty broad whitening gum health anti-cavity and so on and then you have secondary benefits within it.
And I think an important point to make is oftentimes that innovation can be seen as having value to consumers even again at a higher price point which of course is accretive to margin and accretive to category value growth.
And our next question comes from Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One is just reflecting on -- many times the word transactional or transactional effect of currency was discussed this time and also it really started last quarter as well.
That's very different than as far back as I can remember discussing with you guys about currencies where it was always kind of 1:1 between top line and bottom line kind of a new word in the Colgate Lexicon.
So I'm trying to understand why.
I mean you've had historically much quicker currency movements and been able to handle it through pricing.
Is it just that they're that much quicker this time? Is it that the consumer environment particularly in Latin America and Mexico you mentioned may be a little bit tougher? Is it that there's more competition that's not allowing you to take a pricing? So what's different in that transactional has become a bigger piece of the story? And then separate question is going back to Hill's.
Clearly the compares get much easier on that business as you go forward the next few quarters so that should be a little bit of a relief.
But as you think about your attempt to sustainably fix this business I guess 2 questions come to mind.
One is what will success look like for the business from a growth perspective as you go forward on the next 18 months how should we track it? Because I think you guys say and we say as well that this is kind of a big change this is a big thing you guys have to do in that business.
And what are the costs associated to that? And then lastly you were kind of a moment ago just aggregated the prescription business as 40% of your business.
So what's the growth rate of the 60% then if the other -- the prescription business is actually growing the nonprescription should be obviously by math doing a little bit worse.
So can you get us a little bit more color around that? Because that could be an interesting progression to track as you go forward.
The -- thanks for the long question Ali.
The -- taking them in turn and some I won't answer but taking them in turn we have never said foreign exchange is 1:1.
And we said even on the last call that there was a difference between the top line impact and the bottom line impact and we said that when we set up this year when we talked about currency headwind.
And you're right the reason why you can't offset the kind of significant foreign exchange swings that we had in the second quarter was the speed of the change.
And I said earlier we actually accelerated some pricing but you can't just go to market on Monday morning and take your prices up with the retailer never mind the competitor comparison.
So it was always more on the bottom line than the top line and the reason on pricing is the speed of the change.
I think -- we think that pricing on the -- in the north of 3% and volume and organic -- or our organic growth in that 6% to 7% in this world is very good performance and that's a balanced judgment we have to make.
And we fund the investment behind it by getting our gross margin to that 75 to 125 increase by balancing that pricing with our Funding-the-growth initiatives and the slightly more favorable commodity environment.
Now Hill's is -- yes of course the Science Diet business is a little bit lower than the average given that the Prescription Diet business is growing.
It doesn't change what the fundamental issue is.
The fundamental issue is breaking in in a more meaningful way to the Hill's business.
Success will look like growing volume and organic sales.
We think as we have said that we will see a modest improvement in organic sales in the second half of this year and that will build in 2013 as the innovation gets to the marketplace.
And the costs given that this has been planned for some time are fully included in our plans going forward.
And frankly don't get close to the number quoted in your recent note.
So we think we know what the solution is and the success will be a return to organic growth.
I think longer-term with Hill's because we're kind of microscopically focused on the U.S.
here if you take the long view the growth profile for Hill's is going to look attractive given our ability to open up and be successful in emerging markets as they reach the maturity to provide prepackaged pet nutrition diets to their pets and we think that long-term opportunity still is out there.
And we'll go next to Linda Bolton-Weiser with Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if I missed your full explanation on North America but you did have a big sequential increase in pricing and yet a big decline in the volume growth.
You actually had volume decline in North America in the quarter.
And so it looks like you took price and your volumes got hit.
Am I mistaken or is there another explanation? And then is that just a temporary phenomenon as that kind of works through the system? Or maybe if you can give a fuller explanation of that region.
And then secondly I guess my question is a little philosophical on the EPS growth rate and the FX impact.
I mean really you get price that goes along with currency devaluations so I'm just kind of curious as to why you would exclude the translation the FX impact from EPS growth and yet you would include the pricing that goes along with the currency devaluation? So maybe you could kind of comment on that.
And I don't know if there's any way to quantify the pricing you're expecting in 2012 that would be kind of directly related to currency devaluation.
Okay Linda let me do the foreign exchange response first.
There are 2 separate things.
We said when we set up this year that we would deliver double-digit EPS growth on a currency-neutral basis.
That has all to do with translation just translation.
And we said also that we were going to deliver an increase in our gross margin between 75 and 125 basis points.
To do that you have to offset the transaction impact of buying raw materials let's say in Latin America that are priced worldwide in dollars when the U.S.
dollar strengthens.
So in order to deliver the gross margin to deliver the local profitability you have to take the pricing to offset that cost impact.
And that's the way we set up the year.
So it is strictly translation which has nothing to do with pricing.
Now in North America we -- you may recall we started with Optic in the fourth quarter of last year.
We did not have capacity for Optic when we got the overwhelming response positively from consumers in the U.S.
We geared up capacity and we came back and effectively relaunched that business in the first quarter of that year up against I would say the most modest quarter's volume that we have seen in North America first quarter of 2011.
And we got the volume response we got but we have yes certainly balanced pricing in North America.
But I stress the point from an external point of view we are seeing the consumption the consumer purchases of our product outpacing the market rate of growth year-to-date and in fact for the last 10 periods.
So from an organic point of view we expect to see continued positive organic growth for the balance of the year balancing the volume with the price and continuing to build with the innovation we have including the Optic rinse talked about a little bit earlier.
And our next question comes from Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one question.
So thinking about advertising I know years ago you talked about I think 11% was the right way to think about it.
Obviously when gross margins start to contract closer to the trough it was closer to 10 we started to see a little bit of a pickup this year.
So I guess the way I'm thinking about the back half of the year you're going to have a nice big gross margin uptick.
You guys have talked about advertising.
But if we could think about maybe the next 2 years should we think about the advertising spending still at that 11%? Is that a more fluid situation? So as more gross margin comes through you'll reinvest a portion of it? Or will we expect to see more of the gross margin savings over the next couple of years really flow through to the bottom line? So I was wondering if you could just provide a little bit of color on that.
That'd be great.
Yes I -- if there was a number I wish I had never thrown out there it was this 11% which gets memorialized in tablets of stone.
To start with where we are today 8% organic growth with advertising at the level we have in this quarter is we think an effective return on our advertising investment.
The advertising investment doesn't start with a ratio.
We build it up from the plans on the ground.
So I would venture to say that when you take our general financial strategic model what we always intend to be focused on is increasing that gross margin and that would certainly -- or that is our ambition and our goal next year and you can imagine would be next year to attempt to lower overhead on a ratio basis to sales in order to take some of that funding as we call it Funding-the-growth to increase our advertising assuming we have the breadth and depth of innovation that we believe today we have and still deliver a healthy return on the bottom line.
And that thinking has not changed.
And if the innovation flow is good I'm sure our ambition will be to continue to increase our advertising behind that innovation as we move forward in time.
And our final question today comes from Jon Andersen with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just one question on China where GDP growth and I guess category growth for some is slowing I know you're not in discretionary categories per se but are you seeing any impact in your categories in terms of consumption trade-down et cetera? No.
Again as I commented earlier through the second quarter we haven't seen a slowdown in our categories in these geographies in general.
And specifically in China still growing high-single digits.
Our market share there over 33% year-to-date.
I believe our principal competitor just hit below 20% but who's looking? So thanks very much for your questions helpful as always.
And again we look forward to keeping you posted on our progress as this volatile world continues over the balance of the year.
And a special thank you to all of the Colgate people who get all this stuff done around the world.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you again for your participation.
Good day and welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Company's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and is being simulcast live at www.colgate.com.
[Operator Instructions] At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Bina Thompson.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thanks Brian.
Let me add my welcome to our third quarter earnings release conference call.
With me this morning are Ian Cook Chairman President and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller; and Elaine Paik Treasurer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements and these statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement on Forward-looking Statements.
This conference call will also include a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures which differ from our results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
We will discuss organic sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and divestitures.
We will also discuss gross profit gross profit margin operating profit net income and earnings per share excluding the impact of the one-time items described in the press release.
A full reconciliation with the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the press release and is posted on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
So we're very pleased with the continued strong momentum in our business in the third quarter.
Good organic sales growth coupled with an excellent increase in gross margin have allowed us to increase investments behind our business as well as to grow our bottom line.
Market shares are strong around the world.
On a year-to-date basis we're up in toothpaste manual toothbrushes mouthwash bar soaps body wash deodorants and fabric conditioner.
Our pipeline of new products is as full as it has ever been which bodes well for continued share gains.
Our balance sheet is solid and cash generation is strong.
We continue to successfully implement the strategies with which you are all familiar engaging to build our brands innovation for growth effectiveness and efficiency and leading to win.
And we believe our tight focus on a limited number of categories continues to be the right approach for Colgate.
This has allowed us to deliver consistent results.
Now while our strategies have not changed the external environment is increasingly changing and at a fast pace.
To help ensure continued strong results today we announced a 4-year global growth and efficiency program.
And this is truly a global program affecting all areas of the business which is expected to help us deliver sustained profitable growth over the long-term.
We believe that these changes will help ensure the long-term success of our business in today's fast changing global marketplace.
We've chosen to undertake them at a time when the business is strong to leverage our growth momentum so we continue to deliver on both our near and long-term targets while increasing investment to strengthen our market-leading positions and commercial capabilities on the ground.
As a reminder our key areas of focus are not new to us but rather a continuation of what we've done successfully in the past.
The global growth and efficiency program represents a truly global effort to expand upon successful initiatives previously implemented in select regions focusing on the areas of commercial hubs shared services and global supply chain and facilities optimization.
Reflecting on 2012 when we initially gave constant dollar guidance we were experiencing and projecting extremely volatile foreign exchange markets.
That has proven to be the case throughout 2012 in all regions of the world.
By managing the business on a constant currency basis we ensured that commercial funds stayed invested in the local businesses.
So as we look ahead we see the exchange market as being somewhat less volatile and more in line with historic patterns.
So while our global budget process is still in the initial stages as Ian said in the press release we expect to return to double-digit earnings per share growth on a dollar basis in 2013 in the 10% to 11% range.
Our target for organic sales growth for 2013 remains 6% to 7% and we expect to see increases both in gross profit and advertising.
So let me now briefly share some third quarter highlights in the division starting with North America.
We're particularly pleased with our North American results.
Despite a deceleration in category growth throughout the year we achieved positive volume and pricing in the third quarter.
The volume growth was also notable as compared to the strong year-ago quarter in which we launched Colgate Optic White toothpaste.
As referenced in the press release our oral care shares are strong.
The launch of Colgate Optic White enamel toothpaste in the U.S.
has helped to increase the share of the Colgate Optic White franchise with a share of over 6% in the most recent period.
And we told you last quarter about the launch of Colgate Optic White mouthwash which complements the toothpaste and toothbrush and offers a full whitening regimen.
The launch is doing well and the mouthwash has over 2% share.
Increased investment behind our Colgate Total franchise along with a very successful Seeing is Believing marketing campaign also contributed to our success.
And we have some very exciting new products along with some new marketing campaign slated for the first quarter which you will hear about at a later date.
So let's turn to Latin America.
Very good market share progress drove our strong results in Latin America.
Year-to-date market shares are up in toothpaste manual toothbrushes mouthwash bar soaps fabric conditioners dishwashing liquid and liquid cleaners.
As referenced in the press release we reached another record share in toothpaste at 79.3% up 120 basis points from a year ago.
Now this increase was achieved in spite of competitive launches in a number of countries.
Colgate Luminous White toothpaste which was launched a year ago in Mexico and Brazil is now selling across the division and accounts for almost 4 points of our overall toothpaste share.
Our leading toothbrush share is at 42.5% year-to-date up almost 2 full points from the year-ago period.
And as in other developing markets we have product offerings at all price points and both our premium-priced and mid-tier brushes are contributing to the share gain.
In mouthwash our market share is up 4 points to 37% on a year-to-date basis and we've achieved leadership in Argentina Venezuela Central America Paraguay and Uruguay.
In bar soaps we've consolidated our leadership position up over 2 points to 32%.
Protex is the leading brand and the launch of Protex's Vitamin E as well as a strong hand washing campaign has contributed to its success.
Palmolive is the #2 brand across the region also benefiting from innovation.
Turning then to Europe.
As you know the macroeconomic situation in Europe is quite challenging.
Category growth is slowing and consumer confidence levels are low.
But despite that our oral care shares are solid.
In toothpaste our year-to-date market share is even with the year-ago period and our shares are up in manual toothbrushes and mouthwash.
So even in this tough environment we've successfully launched new products.
We found that the consumer is willing to pay a premium for a clear benefit such as whitening or gum health.
Across the region in September we relaunched our Colgate Max White One Whitening toothpaste along with an accompanying toothbrush and mouthwash to provide a full whitening regimen.
The distinctive red packaging the same as for Optic White here in the U.S.
really does stand out on shelves.
Persuasive in-store presence is a critical component of an integrated marketing campaign particularly in a more developed market and early results for this bundle are very encouraging.
Now we're also very excited about our launch into a completely new category electrically chargeable toothbrushes.
Our lead market is the U.K.
The product was introduced in early October at the British Dental Trade Association Conference the largest U.K.
trade event with over 10 000 delegates attending and the reactions were very positive.
As you know professional recommendations play a very important role in this category.
And in addition we introduced the product at Booths the first-ever platinum launch for Colgate.
50% of the category sales are through this one retailer.
Advertising is now on air and although we don't have scanner data until next month the initial reception has been excellent.
Greater Asia/Africa.
As in other divisions successful new product launches have helped increase market shares.
Across Asia our toothpaste share is up 40 basis points on a year-to-date basis.
In India both premium and mid-tier offerings have driven our share up 250 basis points to over 53% of the market.
The share gains are across the country in both urban and rural markets.
And in China our share continues to grow.
We're up 140 basis points to 33.7%.
We continue to grow our mouthwash business across the region.
Year-to-date our market share is up almost 3 full points to 19.3% with increases in almost every country.
Both Colgate Plax Fresh Tea and Colgate Plax Fruity Fresh have contributed to the share gains along with the Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief mouthwash to accompany our Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief toothpaste in the developed markets of Hong Kong and Singapore.
And Hill's.
While Hill's volume declined in the quarter positive pricing allowed for another quarter of organic sales growth.
A number of initiatives faced through [ph] the end of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013 should benefit the business.
On the Science Diet side of the business we'll be relaunching the Science Diet line at the beginning of December.
The new Science Diet Dry Offerings will contain natural ingredients with meat or high-quality protein as the first ingredient and no chicken byproduct or artificial colors or flavors.
New packaging design will make it easier for the pet owner to find the right product.
In fact our studies show it reduces the time it takes by about 30%.
There will be 3 new shopping categories that should reduce shelf clutter: Life Style Life Stage and Life Care.
Ideal Balance which provides natural ingredients in perfect balance and contains no corn continues building momentum with third quarter 2012 volume in the U.S.
up 19% over the second quarter of 2012.
A very exciting new Prescription Diet product is Prescription Diet metabolic.
And this is the first weight management food with proven and real-world results.
88% of dogs and cats lost weight in 2 months at home and it's also clinically proven to avoid weight regain following a weightless -- loss program.
It comes in Dry Wet and Treats for dogs as well as cats.
This product will start shipping in the first quarter of next year starting with the North American market and Japan.
So in summary we're pleased with the continued momentum in our business and look forward to a strong finish for the year.
And as you heard Colgate people around the world are winning on the ground delivering strong results and increased market shares.
And our new global growth and efficiency programs for sustained growth announced today should help us to continue to deliver strong results in 2013 and beyond.
That's the end of my prepared remarks.
Brian now if we can open it up for questions that would be terrific.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Hey did you say how much of the restructuring program is going to be reinvested versus how much you think will flow down to the bottom line? No we didn’t Bill.
And at this stage -- first let me take a step back on the whole program because this has been the output of well over a year's study.
As I think you have seen from the release and Bina's comments we've taken a view here that is strategic for the long term while benefiting starting in 2013 to build the kind of structure and skills we think we will need to compete effectively in this fast-changing world over the next 5 to 10 years.
And important to say that we're really expanding structures and capabilities that we know very well how to handle; hubbing that we have been doing in various parts of the world for over 15 years.
Our shared service center pioneered in Europe at about 5 years.
And of course in terms of manufacturing and sourcing we started the year -- the millennium with something like 85 factories and have worked that down over time.
And I think as you saw with the 2004 2008 program we have the focus and ability to get these programs executed without impacting the continued flow of the business.
Now as to how we will use the funds generated by the program if you take the near-end view what we're really saying in 2013 is that we intend to continue the pace of organic top line growth in a world that has more slowness to it than not at the 6% to 7% range and expect to return to double-digit EPS on a dollar basis.
How we allocate the second half benefits we'll get next year will depend by geography and by program and that will be the same view we will use in the out years.
But if you look at 2013 the commitment is really to the double-digit earnings per share growth on a dollar basis while maintaining that 6% to 7% organic top line growth.
Our next question comes from Nik Modi with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can you just give us any perspective – Bina addressed the kind of Western European environment being sluggish but can you talk about the other market especially Latin America kind of what you're seeing from a market growth standpoint? And then just a quick follow-up question on minor housekeeping.
Venezuela do you believe you can still deliver the dollar kind of 10%-plus even if we get a deval in Venezuela next year? So let me take them in the order you asked them Nik.
If you look at our world and by our world I mean our categories by geography as we have said before in Europe we see low-single digit category growth very low in the 1% to 2% range closer to 1% than 2%; and in some cases negative.
In North America we see category growth rates in that 1% to 2% range.
And in the emerging markets we continue to see category growth rates at high-single digits that would be the 8% to -- the 8% to 9% growth rates.
And we continue to see that right through the latest periods of data available to us.
And having just come back from Vietnam Laos Cambodia and Myanmar I would say in these high growth geographies consumer optimism is still high.
So you see it in the numbers and you feel it on the ground when you're interacting with consumers.
Venezuela obviously there is a lot of speculation about Venezuela.
Clearly there would be 2 components to any devaluation were it to occur.
One would be the one-time impact on that monetary assets which would be a one-time event as it was before.
And then to answer the heart of your question it's really going to come down to the ability to take pricing in the country or not and I think it would be highly speculative to say what that position might be at the time.
Hopefully the governmental view in terms of making product available to consumers would be to allow pricing to facilitate bringing raw materials.
And remember we make 85% of what we sell in the country providing employment with bringing raw materials into the country.
If we see a devaluation with no ability to take pricing that is going to be painful for everybody operating in the country and would weigh on our ability to deliver the double-digit dollar EPS growth.
And our next question comes from Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Ian on -- the Hill's business top line performance continued to be disappointing and that seems in contrast to some of the hope you would have that the new products would reinvigorate the business and help with the market share issues in the Naturals segment.
So I just want to get an update there.
And also can you give us some detail in the Ideal Balance launch in terms of its incrementality and repeat rates and some perspective on potential growth for the division in 2013? Yes.
The -- it's a tale of 2 cities.
Ideal Balance is doing well as Bina said.
Trial rates are high and repeat rates are high and we know we're bringing in about half of the new users from other Naturals products but it's not big enough to shift the entire business.
So as we have said before the second half what we need to do and will do at the end of this year as Bina said is to reformulate and repackage from a design point of view our base Science Diet line to contain ingredients that natural users want and shout out those ingredients on our package.
And so while we expect to continue to see organic growth this year I think as we have said before we expect to return to positive volume growth in 2013 behind the continued growth of Ideal Balance and more importantly from an overall business point of view that upgrade of the entire Science Diet line.
And next we'll go to Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
This is Sarah Miller filling in for Bill this morning.
My question is on -- it seems like there's kind of been cost initiatives and some smaller restructuring programs over time but this program seems like it's kind of a little bit different and I'm just wondering if there was a certain genesis behind the program what could have brought it to light now and just the drivers behind that.
But let's talk about the program.
The other programs you’re talking about were really opportunistic actions taken to lower our structural cost at a time when we got a one-time gain from divesting a small business.
This program which is a global growth and efficiency program is obviously more strategic in nature and as I said earlier is the result of over a year's study thinking about how we should best organize ourselves how we should best invest behind growing the business for the next 5 to 10 years.
So it's genesis to use your word with a strategic genesis and the content is really taking around the world structures and capabilities that we have had in place in some geographies for a long period of time have validated know they work and know how to get them done.
So this is moving our global structure to a place that we think will make us sustainably competitive for the next 5-plus years.
That was the genesis.
And we'll go next to Wendy Nicholson with Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> My question is a follow-up on that.
And if I look back over history I thought you're -- kind of once was a day that Reuben really prided himself and a big point of what made Colgate so special was that programs like this were sort of considered part of doing business every day and Colgate never used to take extraordinary charges and that was something that really distinguished the company.
And I wonder if something has changed culturally because these are huge charges.
And obviously everybody cares about pro forma earnings and I get that.
But still on a GAAP basis your earnings will not have grown for an awfully long time given the magnitude of the charges.
And so I guess number one -- maybe that's just a statement about how difficult the macro is.
But number one can you talk about that philosophy? Should we start to think of Colgate as a company that's going to take big charges every 5 7 or 10 years something like that? So it's a little bit of a different story.
But second thing when you talk about how difficult the external environment is can you tell us is that 2/3 of the macro and the consumer and the economic environment and 1/3 of the competitive situation or is it the opposite? I mean what is making the macro more difficult so that you'd take such big charges now? Yes.
Well first of all Wendy I take exception to the point that we have not done these things in the past.
We have a record of having taken significant restructuring activities not every 3 to 5 years but usually in an 8- to 10-year cycle.
And again as we tried to say earlier I mean your question searches for an underlying problem that forces the action to be taken now and we don't view it that way.
We view it that the world is certainly fast changing and volatile.
We view it that we want to prepare ourselves to continue to deliver that sustained growth both on the top line and the bottom line over time.
And we believe we have enough validation and the capacity to get this done in a compressed period of time to make us better able to compete in the world for the longer term.
So that was the thinking behind it.
And our next question comes from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> And I had to hop off for a second so I hope we haven't addressed this already.
But just looking at Latin America certainly versus what I have expected it was a little worse than I've been hoping for particularly the top line and appears -- there's been a market where you've been beating I think what everybody thought was possible on sales both volume and pricing and that seemed to slow.
And I know you've pulled on great margin performance but can you talk a little bit about the environment there and -- if there's anything that's changing or is this slowdown relative to the very strong double-digit growth over the past 5 quarters? Is this a one-off? Well the -- you got them.
Research Division</strong> I was looking at the organic growth rate.
Yes yes as am I.
The answer is I guess twofold.
Number one if you look at the year-on-year comparison the first 2 quarters were up against lesser performance in 2011 and the third quarter comes up against mid-teen double-digit growth rates in the back half of 2011.
And we still think that in that context 9% is good.
You heard from Bina that the share performance is good.
Clearly Venezuela is a little bit of a drag as you would expect but the other geographies are performing extremely well and Venezuela is to plan.
So I don't think there's anything untoward.
We have fairly consistently said that we think high-single digit low-double digit is the kind of level you should expect from that geography.
And we'll go next to Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just really quick.
The path work that you've done on the shared service center in Europe and the hubbing of regions I guess I was wondering if you could remind us how much of that in the past was funded through restructuring or one-time charges to get that in place or if it was done just in the course of operations and over time? It varied.
In the early days we definitely ran it more through the income statement because we were moving quite slowly giving ourselves the confidence that the hubs would give us what we thought they would give us which is better capability to win on the ground at the same time with lower cost.
Some we have run through prior restructurings.
And in this case now having it in geographies -- in most of our geographic regions we're taking it in a charge because we think we can deploy it more quickly than the 15-plus years we have had hubbing in place.
And our next question comes from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Sorry for going back to the restructuring and the savings data.
First I would like to understand whether -- and it's the same question when is the confirmation whether the saving programs are going to be on top of beyond Funding the Growth or you're replacing it? And in the case that it's not replacing it that is on top and beyond Funding the Growth if you step back you have -- this would be your third layer of savings.
You have first Funding the Growth which is about $600 million.
And then you have supply and demand synchronization which is another $100 million.
And then you're going to have another $45 million in savings because of this restructuring in 2013.
So that is about $745 million in savings.
This is over 4 points of margin expansion.
And the question has to do -- can the organization -- can manage so much pressure to generate and take so much cost out of the system? Is -- kind of I guess it has to do with the reaction to the timing of the restructuring and how ambitious all these 3 savings programs on their own merit are? Okay Javier.
Well actually now that you've given me the introduction to the Funding the Growth why don't I just do the customary walk-through on the gross profit margin which would save that question being asked relative now to the third quarter obviously the prior-year gross profit was 56.8%.
We picked up a 1.1 point benefit from pricing a 2.2 benefit from Funding the Growth savings again in line with the curve of last year.
Material prices were a negative 1.8 points and then there was minor pickup of 0.3 from other which is the walk-through to the 180 points improvement.
Now coming back to your broader strategic question I guess you have to break these things into 3 different component elements.
Funding the Growth is a program we have had in place in this company for many many years.
And whilst it is comprehensive it -- by which I mean it doesn't just touch gross margin a large part of it is gross margin and that program will continue because it is part of the culture of the company because it is part of our year-on-year savings program.
Synchronizing the supply and demand again is really squeezing waste out of a process which is eliminating redundancy and doesn't bring pressure to the business.
The new program again is not predominantly a margin benefit.
It when you look at it with hubs with shared services with reduced facilities is going to hit more in the SGA area.
And that's what we have been talking about for quite a while which is -- with the slowing growth in the world in general lowering structural cost is an important part of how to organize the company.
Again it will require a changed management.
I think we have demonstrated with the prior programs we have conducted that we have the focus to do it.
And the content of the program the hubs the shared service centers and the facility and manufacturing facility rationalization these are all things we know how to do.
We have validated them before and we believe now is the right time to do it from a position of strength and readying us for the future and balancing what we believe we need to do to sustain top line and bottom line growth for that future.
And our next question comes from Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of the bigger picture questions have been asked.
So I mean -- maybe you could just talk a little bit about the promotional environment.
I think it was only a quarter ago that we heard one of your competitors kind of talking about some of the I guess offensive spending that was out there for trial building that there might be a little bit more defensive spending coming about.
So just I guess really focusing on Western Europe and North America how your outlook has changed maybe over the last 3 months? Anything there just coinciding with maybe some of the more tempered global market views on those regions.
Yes.
I must say thus far nothing of -- nothing meaningful for me to say in terms of change.
We continue to see promotional emphasis from folks.
And in North America we've just been pleased in our ability to continue to generate both price and volume in the third quarter.
But no significant change in that environment.
And next we'll go to Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I first wanted to really praise the preemptive restructuring announcement.
I think it's good you're doing it now and you're responding to the headwinds instead of waiting like the company used to do.
However I want to get a sense of what I think is kind of the positive returns on the restructurings are around 3 things.
Like the first the 30% return over several years is actually relatively low given your history.
So 2004 restructuring I think was a 50% return just quick quick math.
And it was even higher for previous ones.
So it feels like you're just kind of squeezing the lemon too much and are you? Secondly is -- this is kind of what you need to do to grow double digits in 2013.
So what should we infer about what your view is on the global marketplace going forward? Understanding that's changing but what does that really mean? And then third -- and pardon me for this I apologize.
But if you put it altogether as you think about your long-term growth isn't Colgate just being a little bit stubborn? And by the way maybe other competitors have done this so you joined the crowd but a little bit stubborn about double-digit EPS growth? How are you going to convince us that you're still a double-digit EPS growth company on a sustainable basis because you're doing a big restructuring to just get there? And to be fair again I'm not sure anybody in this sector is really double-digit EPS grower sustainably.
So a lot in there but a lot in my head in thinking about this.
Well as usual Ali thanks for the single question.
I guess in the end the double digit is going to come down to performance.
And of course you and others will track that as you track that.
But to come back in sequence number one we do not think we're squeezing the lemon.
In fact the rates of return we got on prior restructurings were in that low- to mid-30% level and this is entirely consistent with that kind of benchmark.
We view it as again to repeat what we need to do to reorganize our company to compete effectively perhaps compete stubbornly over the medium to long term.
We believe and have validated the structure of hubs where for smaller countries you can bring big country capability which arms the folks on the ground with the tools they need to continue to win by growing market share and volume on the ground.
We believe in shared services centers because we have done it with our IT organization 10 years ago.
We know it works.
We did it 5 years ago in Europe and Poland.
We know we get immediate savings.
We then get second order savings as you simplify your process.
And then you get third order savings as you bring additional functions and capabilities through the shared service centers.
And in the manufacturing and facility space that is a continuation of a journey that we have been on for over 15 years all of it facilitated by SAP and our growing capability to use SAP.
So it is a strategic view about how we need to organize.
So turning to 2013 that wasn't the way we viewed it.
The way we have approached 2013 is to say that we expect to grow the top line of our company by 6% to 7% organic which we think stands up to any comparison and at the same time deliver double-digit dollar earnings per share growth in that 10% to 11% range.
And we will deploy the savings we get from the program by geography by activity as we see necessary.
And we think reaching this new organization structure as we get to 2016 2017 will position us sustainably to deliver consistent top line growth and that double-digit bottom line growth and the folks will see the measure of it then.
Next we'll go to Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
I just have a point of clarification.
On your outlook for next year 10% dollar EPS growth what's the base we should be using? Is it the 2012 reported EPS or is it the currency neutral? And then my real question is on the restructuring.
You've said that you'll reduce the headcount by about 6%.
Could you tell us what the timing of that is? And also how many facilities will be changed or touched or closed during this process? To answer your first housekeeping question Connie it's the reported EPS.
As to the second question in terms of when the headcount reductions will take place the answer is no.
Those plans have not yet been finalized or communicated and that would be premature.
And in the case of the facilities I think it would be fair to say that by the time we finish the program we will have 10% fewer facilities approximately than the 54 we have today.
And our next question comes from Joe Lachky with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was just wanting to talk about your overall strategy I guess in dealing kind of specifically with competition in emerging markets.
And given your strong share in many of these markets how do you specifically defend share of like say rural areas or the high-frequency stores where you guys are prevalent in? And do you do anything differently I guess in your execution? I asked this within context of a major competitor in a major Latin American country making a push into these rural areas.
Yes.
The most important point in all of this Joe is the consumer and we should never forget that.
And you'll find in many of these high-frequency stores you can be there but they're so small that you can't.
You're not self-selecting the product.
The shop owner is giving you the product that you ask for.
And if you go to these stores whether it's in India or in Latin America Brazil Mexico the product they'll be asking for is Colgate.
So that would be one.
Number two we would have the broadest assortment of toothpaste products available in those stores and we have for many many years had sizing and pricing that is particularly really tailored for those stores to acquaint to cash and pocket cash outlay what the consumer can afford.
But the heart of it is loyalty versus presence.
And the important thing in the high frequency down trade stores is the consumer loyalty that we have which in many cases despite the push will not see new entrants distributed because the shopkeeper doesn't have any demand for the product.
And next we'll go to Chris Ferrera with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about SG&amp;A for the quarter.
So it was up I guess 60 basis points.
It's a little bit of a different result than what we've seen over the last I don't know 6 or 7 quarters so it's a little higher.
Is there anything unusual going on in that line item in the quarter? And then on advertising do you feel like we're at kind of a good rate of growth on the advertising line? Thanks Chris.
No.
And the overhead is not really -- part of it is the non-cost of goods transaction impact rolling forward and then it's the timing of some benefit expenses.
So a timing issue not a structural issue.
And advertising yes we're quite happy with the advertising level we have.
I've said for quite a time now in some parts of the world even though we don't focus on it there are a lot of programs that are managed through the so-called gross to net the trade spending dollar which leads to in-store activity which in today's world particularly in the developed parts of our world is where engaging with the consumer is very very important.
But in the traditional A&amp;P that you see yes we're quite happy with that level.
Frankly with the stream of innovation we have coming into next year and as we go through our budgeting cycle we'll be looking to take that up.
And our next question comes from Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
Your organic sales growth was 5% and yet you're still guiding to 6% to 7% for next year and holding to your longer-term targets there.
Why were you below that this quarter and why should we expect that to get better next year? And then also -- and should we see an improvement in the fourth quarter? And then tied to this I know you said that you're seeing your categories slow some and you gave us what you think -- how fast you think your categories are growing in Europe emerging regions and North America.
Can you tell us how fast you think -- given the weighted average how fast your categories are growing globally and how fast were you thinking the categories are growing? So in other words -- so we can see the magnitude of the slowdown that you're seeing.
The -- thanks Alice.
The -- if you look at the 9 months we guided to 6% to 7% organic for this year.
I remember when we did some said that was too aggressive.
If you look at the 9 months with the third quarter coming up against a tough comparison last year our 9-months organic growth is running at about 6.5%.
And I would tell you that we continue to guide for the full year to the 6% to 7% level.
As regards to the category growth rates I kind of went through them before high-single digits in the emerging markets which are about 53% of our business and low-single digits.
I characterized Europe as 1% to 2% nearer 1%; and the U.S.
as the same 1% to 2%.
But there's really been no change in those category growth rates so that has what -- that is what has driven the business next year and that is what we expect to continue to see next year.
And what gives us the confidence is the continued flow-through of our innovation pipeline into 2013 and the effectiveness of many of the marketing programs that we have and of course the return to positive volume on the Hill's business.
Our next question comes from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Sorry to belabor all of this.
I guess -- as we look at this I'm trying to figure out 1 of 2 questions here.
The first would be is simply -- is this simply a cost of doing business going up this year right in terms of running harder to stick with the let's say the 6% to 7% growth because the cost of doing business has higher advertising or what have you? Or is this simply sort of a reflection that the old model of delivering operating leverage doesn't work anymore? Okay.
Where it was categories grow x you gain a little bit of share to grow y and then just sort of automatically deliver leverage.
And I don't -- I agree with you if that's the case that it doesn't work anymore.
So I guess where in the P&amp;L are we seeing that breakdown? Is it just the higher raw material costs? Is it the inability to take as much pricing going forward? Or is it again something on the SG&amp;A? So hopefully that question makes sense.
I'm not sure.
So let me try and answer it in the same spirit that it was given John.
I guess if you break the program down into 2 bits the why are we doing it bit and the why are we doing it bit really strategically is more about how we think we should be best organized to manage our business for the medium to long-term.
To repeat we believe in the power of hubs and we validated it.
We believe with the technology available to us today and the servicing ability of shared service centers and so we are expanding it.
And we have the ability to further reduce our facilities sourcing our global business.
So for us these are the right things to do.
And the why now the why now is we believe the company is in a strong position.
And this is the ideal time to expand structures that we have had in place for a long period of time.
I think it would be fair to say when we talk about a fast-changing world that we have seen a slowdown in category growth rates particularly in the developed world.
And if you take a jaundiced macro view is there going to be spillover of that into the emerging markets.
So we still expect that 6% to 7% organic growth.
We still expect to grow market share but you're doing it in a world where the rate of category growth particularly in the developed parts of that world have slowed.
And therefore as we have said for some time we believe re-basing the structural cost is an important part of how we go about managing our business.
And next we'll go to Linda Bolton-Weiser with Caris.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could give a little more commentary on Hill's.
It seems that for I don't know kind of a few years now we've been hearing about sort of a sluggish growth and then changes or tweaks to some of the marketing strategies.
And now we're hearing Science Diet relaunch and everything.
But it's just -- it's hard to get a grasp of exactly what's going on.
Is it something in the channel -- like is the channel shifting from the specialty channel more toward regular retail channels or are you losing market share? Like -- can you just give a little more color what's going on please? Sure Linda.
First of all we'll split out Hill's business into 2 parts.
There is a Prescription Diet business.
Those are diets that are specifically for pets with health issues that are prescribed by vets.
We have a 70% recommendation level a 70% market share and that business is fine.
As we have been saying for a time we have been unable unsuccessful thus far in competing in what has become the fastest-growing quite large segment in the category which is the Naturals segment.
We had offers there a product called Nature's Best but the consumer had a disconnect with this idea of Science Diet and a Natural's product and the trial and repeat rates were low and we withdrew the product.
Our first step into that category was the product we have talked about again for a little while which is Ideal Balance.
And Ideal Balance is what it purports to be which is it doesn't give up the heritage of Hill's Science but it's just it's balanced with the ingredients that a natural -- a Naturals user would want.
And that's working for us.
It's working for us in terms of the trial we're getting in terms of the business growth we're getting and in terms of the new users we're bringing from the Naturals segment.
It's not big enough to turn the whole business.
And in fact I'm just hearing about the Science Diet relaunch now.
We have been saying for a while that we were working to completely relaunch our Science Diet business at the end of this year which across the line would therefore give the consumers the ingredients they would be looking for.
And that as it works its way through 2013 we think is going to complete the job and get the business back on to a positive volume track.
So the proof of the pudding will be in 2013.
Our next question comes from Jon Andersen with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Sorry if this has been asked I just jumped on recently.
With respect to the efficiency program the press release indicates clearly there are ample opportunities through the structural cost through it.
But also you called out the benefit that should enable you to help drive your market share position and support sustained sales growth.
To what degree might you reinvest some of the benefits you've outlined here? And if so where would those investments most likely be directed? Well Jon yes the -- you know the areas we are focused on.
We actually called out 4 areas of investment of those funds.
And the first obviously was innovation and brand building.
The second was enabling technology and analytics and we have been talking for a little while about -- it is our belief that analytics is a new area of discriminating competence for companies like ours.
The third would be continuing to explore and expand our use of digital engagement with customers with consumers with suppliers.
And finally continuing to strengthen our capability in the emerging markets to underscore the distribution the in-store visibility that our products have in those parts of the world.
So again we'll be doing it on a case-by-case basis by activity by country as we work through this.
But they are the 4 principal areas of potential reinvestment.
Our next question comes from Mark Astrachan with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So one follow-up or just a housekeeping question.
From an input cost standpoint anything you call out particularly for next year in terms of how you think it progresses and what your assumptions are for oil? And then on the restructuring program and cost savings broadly if you would think about it longer term how does this compare or how does this change your assumptions for gross margins as far as your long-term targets are concerned more specifically? And then obviously if you could give us some color on the SG&amp;A piece beyond what you've laid out that'd be helpful.
Otherwise I understand that you probably won't.
No.
So let's answer that quickly no I won't.
The -- but getting to your questions frankly again we're at the preliminary stages of our budget.
But the preliminary look would be in the -- from a cost point of view would be in a 1% to 2% range.
That's kind of consistent with what we have seen this year.
So that would be the macro view and that would be with oil at an assumed 110 and it would also assume a bit of a headwind from corn which obviously affects our Hill's business.
From a gross margin point of view we continue to hold the same plus or minus 5-year goal of getting our gross margin into the mid-60s.
So that continues to be the way we think about it.
And of course the 110 coming back to the oil is obviously the brand not the West Texas.
And next we'll go to Ian Gordon with S&amp;P Capital IQ.
Just on housekeeping.
So the FX impact on sales was a negative 6%.
Was it the same on EPS? And then just can you dig into Europe a little bit? I think this was the first quarter in a while where organic volumes were down.
So what's changed there? Was it the competitive environment? It doesn't look like it was a year-over-year comparison issue.
The -- coming back the -- as we've said several times before the impact of foreign exchange on the top line -- I'm sorry on the bottom line is greater than the impact on the top line.
So we faced a headwind of around 8% on the bottom line relative to foreign exchange.
And in terms of Europe Europe has always been a difficult environment.
The -- candidly for the last half a dozen quarters organic growth has run negative in Europe and so the third quarter is no different than that.
Obviously when you look at Europe there clearly is a difference between the North and the South where in the Iberia's the Italy's and the Greece's you are seeing lower category growth rates.
Next we have a follow-up question from Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So Ian we've obviously [indiscernible] disagreed a little bit about Hill's in the past.
And then it sounds like the changes you're making are very much in the right direction but they're bigger changes than at least what I thought you guys have thought about before and again that's good.
But I'm trying to figure out the costing of it.
So look corn meal costs a whole ton less than corn let alone than chicken or meat.
You need to market this.
You need to get perhaps different distribution or at least get shelf space back and take your other things off of the marketplace with discounting et cetera.
So can you give us a sense of the costing of this and what we should expect from a run rate on your margin in this business given that these are higher cost inputs? Well when you look at the business you know that the gross margin of Hill's is quite attractive to us.
You are correct that moving to these formulas does bring with them a cost.
But again I come back to the overall company and say that that is baked into our thinking in 2013 and beyond.
And again we're looking at the top line of 6% to 7% and we're looking at that bottom line EPS growth of 10% to 11% and the impact on the Hill's gross margin is easily manageable in that framework.
And next we'll go again to Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
My question was answered.
We do have one follow-up question from Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
Two things.
Is it possible -- this is a follow-up to the Hill's question.
Is it possible that you'll change the pack size for Hill's and make them smaller as a way to address the higher cost and price this smaller pack size as the same as the bigger ones now? The straightforward answer Alice is no.
The Hill's issue is not a pricing issue it's a formulation issue in this particular case.
So that's where we need to focus.
And as we have no further questions in queue I'd like to turn the call back over to our speakers for any further or closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thanks for all of you calling in.
It's good to have the opportunity to talk about the business today and our plans for the future.
And again for all of those Colgate people listening on the call thank you for your efforts.
We obviously have a chapter ahead of us and we'll get the job done.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good day and welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Company Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year-End 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and is being simulcast live at www.colgate.com.
[Operator Instructions] At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Bina Thompson.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Cameron.
Good morning everybody and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings release conference call.
With me this morning are Ian Cook Chairman President and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller; and Elaine Paik Treasurer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements and these statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Statements.
This conference call will also include a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures which differ from our results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
We will discuss organic sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and divestitures.
We will also discuss gross profit gross profit margin SG&amp;A operating profit net income and earnings per share excluding the impact of certain items described in the press release.
And a full reconciliation with the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the press release and is posted in the For Investors section of our website at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
We're pleased with our solid fourth quarter results.
Our momentum is excellent in many areas of the world both developed and developing and we think we are well-positioned to deliver stronger results in 2013.
On a global basis our market shares are up year-to-date in toothpaste manual toothbrushes mouthwash bar soaps body wash deodorants and fabric conditioners.
And as you will hear as I review the divisions innovation has played an important role in increasing market shares and we have a very robust new product pipeline as we enter this year to help to continue this growth.
As Ian said in the press release we're encouraged that we achieved our objectives in 2012 in the face of currency competitive and macroeconomic challenges around the world.
For the full year our organic sales accelerated in almost every division from full year 2011.
The exception was Latin America which even so delivered another year of double-digit organic sales growth despite significant challenges in Venezuela in the fourth quarter.
In particular a labor slowdown in our factory coupled with ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty negatively impacted organic sales and gross margin in the fourth quarter.
In fact worldwide organic sales growth in the fourth quarter would have been almost 1.5 points higher excluding the Venezuelan results and gross margin worldwide would have been 50 basis points higher.
As Ian also mentioned our global growth and efficiency program is off to a good start.
And as we told you on our last call we expect after-tax charges this year between $185 million and $220 million with after-tax savings in the range of $30 million to $40 million.
And consistent with what you would expect we anticipate realizing these savings later in the year.
Of course our ongoing Funding the Growth savings program is continuing to deliver considerable savings as well to allow us to invest behind our full range of new products.
In 2012 the program added 2 full points to gross margin line which helped offset increases in raw material costs.
And it provided savings at the SG&amp;A line as well and we expect this to continue into 2013.
From a cash perspective we had another good year continuing to pay increased dividends and buying back stocks to deliver more value to our shareholders.
So let's turn to the fourth quarter division results starting with North America.
We're very pleased with the continued momentum in our North American business.
Our organic sales growth of almost 4% is very strong for a developed market.
And pleasingly our categories are growing and we are growing ahead of them.
On a year-to-date basis our market shares are up in 7 categories even with the year-ago period in 1 and down in 3.
Importantly our year-to-date market shares are up across oral care fueled by a continued stream of innovative products.
In fact our year-to-date increase in toothpaste share of 1 full point is the largest in 10 years.
Our new product pipeline is full and we are excited about some of the new products launching this quarter.
In toothpaste 1 new product is Colgate Total Zx Pro-Shield Plus Sensitivity which has a triple active formula that provides multi-benefit protection in addition to maximum sensitivity relief.
Consumer research shows that almost 50% of sensitivity sufferers do not treat their pain with sensitive toothpaste because the price is too high or their product does not have all the benefits the consumer is looking for.
Colgate Total Zx helps protect against sensitivity helps prevent cavities fortifies enamel and fights plaque and germs.
Second new toothpaste is Colgate Optic White Dual Action formulated with the same level of effective hydrogen peroxide as Colgate Optic White toothpaste plus the addition of sodium acid pyrophosphate to whiten and shine.
The extensive integrated marketing launch campaign will incorporate new claims whitens and shines whitens more than 3 shades and results start in 1 week.
An exciting new toothbrush launching this quarter is Colgate 360° Total Advanced Floss Tip.
This superpremium priced toothbrush has tapered bristles for a deeper reach below the gum line resulting in a superior yet gentle clean.
In addition to oral care we have a full new product lineup in both personal and household care.
And one interesting example is our new line of antibacterial hand soap under the Softsoap brand which is as you know the leading liquid hand soap in the U.S.
Consumers particularly during flu season are very concerned about hand washing and this new antibacterial soap with moisturizers leaves hands feeling soft and has an active ingredient which effectively helps eliminate bacteria.
So we're encouraged as we enter 2013 that our North American business is off to a good start.
Turning then to Europe/South Pacific.
As with North America our European results were solid particularly in light of the very difficult macroeconomic conditions in that part of the world.
Organic sales increased and were slightly ahead of overall category growth.
And year-to-date our market shares are up in toothpaste manual toothbrushes mouth rinse body wash deodorants and fabric conditioners.
New product activity is the key to growing in these highly developed markets slow-growing markets and we have a full slate for the first quarter and beyond.
And here are just a few examples.
Colgate Total Pro Interdental a toothpaste which continuously fights plaque even between teeth for a healthier mouth; Colgate Plax Complete Care and Advanced and Complete Mouthwash for a healthy mouth with 12 benefits in 1 including 12-hour antibacterial protection enamel strengthening and the ability to kill germs up to 99%.
We are revitalizing both our elmex and Meridol toothpastes with new modernized packaging design with specs and claims.
You may recall these 2 brands were part of the GABA acquisition and have especially strong shares in the Germanic countries.
In this quarter we will be expanding both brands into the mass market in both France and Belgium.
Heretofore they have only been sold in the pharmacy channel in those markets.
In personal care we are relaunching our experiential Palmolive body wash ranges with new design new variants and a new advertising campaign: unforgettable shower experiences for your body and mind.
Our Sanex deodorants are being launched under the new bio response concept with a new modern design and new variants accompanied by a new claim fights odor-causing bacteria while respecting the skin's natural bacteria flora.
Sanex is also introducing Sanex Zero kids body wash with a mild formula with fewer chemical ingredients to keep your child's skin healthy.
This new product has been approved by pediatricians.
So a lot of activity across the region which bodes well for 2013.
Turning then to Latin America.
As I discussed earlier in my commentary difficult conditions in Venezuela affected this division.
Business in our other subsidiaries is very good and year-to-date market shares are up across the region in toothpaste toothbrushes mouthwash bar soaps dishwashing liquids and fabric softeners.
And deodorants are at last year's levels.
And as elsewhere new products have been critical to our success in this region.
In Brazil where we have our highest toothpaste market share in the last 15 years 71.4% year-to-date both Colgate Luminous White and Colgate Total Professional Gum Health have contributed to these good results.
In fact in the month of December Colgate Luminous White alone achieved an 8.3% share.
In Mexico our year-to-date toothpaste market share is 81.8%.
In toothbrushes our year-to-date share across the region is up almost 2 full points.
In Brazil we maintained our market-leading position of over 30% and in Mexico we continue to close the gap with our nearest competitor.
Three years ago the gap was almost 8 points and in the most recent period it's narrowed to 1.5 points.
Year-to-date our share is at 42.3% up 80 basis points year-over-year and was at 43.4% in the most recent period.
In mouthwash new products across the region such as Colgate Luminous White and the relaunch of Colgate Plax have allowed us to narrow the gap with our nearest competitor from 29.3 points in 2007 to just 3.4 points in 2012 on a year-to-date basis.
And we're excited about more innovation coming in the first quarter.
We're relaunching our Colgate Total Pro products with a new campaign which emphasizes the 12-hour antibacterial protection for a healthy mouth.
Under the Mennen Speed Stick brand we're launching Mennen Speed Stick neutral power with all the protective benefits that the brand is known for but less fragrance that will not interfere with colognes or aftershave.
Under the Protex brand we have driven our bar soap shares for the variant called Deep Clean which deeply cleans sensitive skin to remove dirt and bacteria that can cause pimples.
We're now introducing a shower gel with the same positioning.
And as you know Fabuloso was our market-leading highly fragrant all-purpose cleaner.
We're launching a new fragrance Chamomile Explosion capitalizing on the consumer's belief that chamomile is a natural ingredient to be used to care for the family.
These are just a few examples of what is to come throughout the year in Latin America and you'll hear more about innovation as we go forward.
Turning then to Greater Asia/Africa.
Strong results continued in the fourth quarter to finish off an excellent year for this region of the world.
As referenced in the press release volume growth was led by some of our major subsidiaries including Russia India and China.
Despite concerns over a slowing economy in China our categories there are exhibiting good growth and we've benefited from that.
Our toothpaste market share there is up 120 basis points year-over-year to 33.5% consolidating our #1 position in the market.
We've had particular success with new products in the premium segment of the business.
Our mouthwash shares are up 240 basis points year-to-date to over 34% of the market fueled by the success of Colgate Optic White mouthwash launched in this quarter.
In India our year-to-date toothpaste market share reached yet another record up 230 basis points to 53%.
And as with China premiumization is driving our success with higher-priced products such as Colgate Total Colgate Max Fresh and Colgate Sensitive.
Our Indian toothbrush share is up 220 points to 39.5% on a year-to-date basis with the latest reading at 40.9%.
Our leading market share is now 1 480 basis points ahead of our nearest competitor from 880 basis points at the start of the year.
In Russia our toothpaste share increased as well up 50 basis points on a year-to-date basis.
And as elsewhere around the world we will continue our launch of new products in 2013.
Launching in China is 360° Pro Gum Health toothpaste.
Gum problems are the #1 oral condition suffered by Chinese and 360° is our biggest premium sub-brand in the China portfolio.
Formulated to relieve gum problems in just 3 weeks this China relevant new product will be supported by a complete integrated marketing campaign.
And in the toothbrush category tapered bristles are the fastest-growing segment in Asia.
This quarter we will be expanding our Slim Soft equity with the launch of Slim Soft Charcoal which deliveries a deep dental clean with a charcoal bristle.
So we think we're well-poised in this part of the world as we enter 2013.
And Hill's.
As referenced in the press release Hill's launched a number of new products in 2012.
As we look to 2013 the new product pipeline is full and we're very excited about these new items.
As some of you may have heard already we are in the process of relaunching our Science Diet line.
The objective is to modernize and enhance the shopping experience with improved packaging and placements and to improve the perceived signs of quality.
Formulation will be of 100% natural ingredients with quality animal protein first and no byproduct and we'll have significant taste improvements.
Our new integrated marketing campaign "What Vets Feed Their Pets" has already gained strong customer support.
As part of the plan we've added more nutritional consultants and direct store coverage with enhanced display plans.
And in addition we'll have materials and samples in the vet clinic.
Secondly we are repositioning Ideal Balance as an authentic natural proposition.
We will expand into all key segments dry wet and treat and remove wheat and soy from all products.
And as with the Science Diet relaunch we've added nutritional consultants and increased direct store coverage.
In the Prescription Diet line we are now shipping prescription diet metabolic in the U.S.
Canada and Japan.
Other regions will follow in the second quarter and we expect to complete a full rollout by the end of this year.
Obesity in both dogs and cats is one of the biggest disease conditions globally.
Prescription Diet metabolic is the first weight management food which -- with proven real-world results as well as being the first offering for easy flexible weight loss success without deprivation.
In early trials 88% of dogs and cats lost weight in 2 months at home.
This new product has been very well-received by veterinarians many of whom are recommending it to their clients.
So in summary for 2013 we're looking forward to a strong year of investment and volume growth and continued acceleration in our market shares worldwide.
Our leadership team is committed to winning on the ground with superior execution behind an ever-increasing flow of innovative new products.
We have a full pipeline of new products spanning all price points to enable us to succeed in developed and emerging markets alike.
And we look forward to sharing our results as we go through the year.
That's the end of my prepared remarks.
Now Cameron if we could open it up for questions that will be great.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Dara Mohsenian at Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So Ian it sounds like Venezuela clearly had some massive sales and profit declines in the quarter given the impact you quantified on the corporate results.
Can you give us more detail on exactly what's occurring there how long you think those issues will linger? And then also separately on the same subject can you discuss your ability to hit your double-digit EPS growth guidance in 2013 if there is a devaluation in Venezuela and how managing through that situation might be different than past devaluations just given the price controls in place? Clearly questions on Venezuela given what we have already said are entirely appropriate and I will answer it in a moment.
But I do want to underscore what Bina said when you think about our company in total.
We delivered at the low end of our organic sales for the year 6%.
We delivered 8% dollar EPS growth year-on-year absorbing a 6% headwind from foreign exchange which means that we delivered our currency neutral earnings per share growth.
And we expanded our gross margin at the low end of our expectations given Venezuela.
And more importantly we believe with strategic initiatives that we have been deploying for several years continue to be effective.
We have a global growth and efficiency program now in place behind a very strong innovation stream to continue to grow our business going forward.
But yes indeed in the fourth quarter after our last call and based on the uncertainty between elections and inauguration we did see a slowdown in our Venezuelan business as you say partly due to uncertainty at retail level and partly due to the slowdown in our factory.
As Bina said our global organic sales would have been up 150 basis points if it were not for that.
Indeed our emerging market sales would have been up some 300 points from the 6% you saw in the results.
But I can tell you that after considerable dialogue and collaboration with our workforce with support from local government ministries we enter this year with our operations in Venezuela basically back to historical levels and our top line progress has bounced back to the levels pre the event and consistent with our thinking about Venezuela for this year.
Now as we discussed on the last call when I said that a significant devaluation in Venezuela along with price controls would weigh heavily on our results we were quite straightforward in our release in saying that the double digit in dollar terms of guidance was absent a macroeconomic devaluation in Venezuela.
And that continues to be our view.
Now clearly there are many different scenarios there and in some ways it's not just the management of the devaluation which as I have said before would take just over $0.5 billion of monetary assets there and reduce them by whatever the devaluation level is.
But the effect is potentially larger in terms of what does happen in pricing and what may happen in terms of social or other macroeconomic actions.
And our view on that as it was the last time and we have many years in Latin America and other parts of the world experiencing these kinds of things is that we would as we were before be very prompt and fulsome in becoming public in terms of how we would react to the devaluation and whatever comes with it should that time come.
Now while that is out there you know well that in terms of the way our business is being managed in Venezuela we have made the business much more simple.
We are focusing on our SKUs.
We are making cash decisions wisely.
So we are managing responsibly understanding that we are in businesses and geographies for the long term.
So that would be I think a confidence in the overall company I hope confidence in our ability to manage Venezuela a statement that what we went through in the fourth quarter has corrected in January.
And that we will deal with any macroeconomic event in Venezuela swiftly and advise people accordingly.
And we will take our next question from Nik Modi with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Ian if you could just kind of walk us through -- as the year unfolded in 2012 and as you kind of look into 2013 how is the competitive environment involved? I mean has it gotten much more intense in a sense that more promotions maybe some of the advertising money is going into promotions? And are you seeing it kind of accelerate here as a lot of your global competitors have been obviously restructuring and have some more money to play with plus commodity cost has been about a lot tamer? Just curious on your view.
And as you think about the back half of the year where do you think that's headed as many companies have gross margin upside to kind of reinvest? Well I think Nik we have been sort of generally clear that despite or regardless of what many people have been saying about the level of competitive activity we have seen it and we continue to see it and we continue to plan that it will be at the levels that we have seen for the last little while.
And we too will see expansion of our gross margin.
We see our material costs up about the same level as they were this year which is around 1%.
We still expect to see our gross margin expand next year within the 50 to 100 basis points level given our investment in the formulas at Hill's.
And so that's what we think we will see in the ongoing operating costs from Venezuela.
And we think we have -- from an advertising point of view we're well-structured our plan.
It is a plan that continues to confirm a 6% to 7% organic growth level.
It continues to see the Hill's business with all of the terrific product activity behind it turned volume positive continues to see our advertising grow.
And I would make a comment about advertising.
As we have said for some time many of us in going to school came out with a view that advertising was good and trade spending was bad.
And I think we have been trying to say that in many ways given the analytic tools available to us the way one can execute at the retail level these days a wise trade investment can be a terrific way of building a brand engaging with a shopper at retail and getting them to that final purchasing decision on top of the traditional advertising and the social media and the other techniques that we use.
So these things are all in a balance and we build our plans accordingly.
But essentially the plan we have for 2013 assumes the continuation of competitive activity adequately funds our innovation and we believe has the right balance between traditional advertising spending and that which we would execute and be able to measure the return on investment on -- at the retail level.
And we'll take our next question from Wendy Nicholson with Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about Hill's specifically? And the margin that you generate there has for a long time been so good and sort of above average for the company.
And can you talk about kind of going forward what you expect from Hill's profit margin? With all the new product activity and the volume declines you've seen is that not an area where maybe investment spending should go up? Or how much will Hill's itself benefit from some of your restructuring? Well I think Wendy as we think about Hill's frankly we're quite excited.
We think -- from an innovation point of view we think we've got it right.
We think we have been able to improve the relevance of our Ideal Balance product while not losing the strength of the Hill's scientific credentials.
We think we've made a major upgrade in our Science Diet business for the U.S.
We have packaging we know works.
We have advertising we know works.
We have clear selling communications for our consultants at retail to bring back consumers to the business and we have invested in those consultants.
And we have had very very good collaboration with the PETCOs and the PetSmarts of this world in bringing these plans to the consumer.
So by all means it is an investment year for Hill's.
And we are investing in advertising to convey the benefits of the products that will be coming to the marketplace are coming to the marketplace now.
And we believe we will see the volume of that business return into positive territory as we move across the year.
And yes we have made an investment in upgrading the formula in Hill's.
Having said that we are going to expand the gross margin of the company within our 50- to 100-basis-point range.
And in the life of the plan that we have we rebuild that gross margin investment on the Hill's business.
So we're comfortable with where we are putting the investment funds and we look forward to reporting the progress of the Hill's business across 2013.
And we'll take our next question from Joe Lachky with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just was wondering if you could describe how you're responding to the competition in Brazil and maybe if you could let us know what category growth rates are in that country for oral care.
And is net  the competition positive or negative for the category overall? Okay Joe.
Well let me draw a little bit of a whirlwind tour and I'll come back to Brazil.
Take the big high-growth markets that everybody talks to China our share is approaching 34%.
The competitor is below 19% down over 3 share points year-on-year.
Russia our share is over 32% and the competitive share has now drifted below 15% continuing a 4-year downward progression.
Our share in Mexico as Bina said is about 82%.
And the competitive share towards the end of the year is around 13%.
And if we come now to Brazil to your point our share is as Bina said the highest we have seen in 15 years.
And the competitive share for the year is about 6% and change in the fourth quarter based on Nielsen data is around 7%.
We have seen category growth in Brazil.
We have seen our market share growth in Brazil.
And the growth rate in Brazil is pretty much at the same as it has been in all of our emerging markets which is high single digits low double digits.
We have said many times that we believe the basis for growth in categories is innovation.
And in Brazil as you may know from our various comments on the subject whether it was Sensitive Pro-Relief whether it was Luminous and the other innovations we have planned we are constantly looking to engage with the consumer through innovation rather than just price promotion.
And we see that and plan for that continuing in Brazil and the other emerging markets around the world in 2013.
And we'll take our next question from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So I just want to follow up in your comments on the relative value of trade promotion versus advertising because advertising for us in terms of the information we get it's obviously a fairly blunt instrument.
One of the things that the investment community sort of focuses on advertising for is it can tend to be more of a leverageable expense while trade promotion we associate is a little bit more variable in terms of having to put the trade promotion out there for the units that you get.
So can you talk with us a little bit about sort of SG&amp;A leverage in that context? And then the second question I have was just sort of a housekeeping thing which is can you talk a little bit about the interest income line which went from negative to positive in the quarter and what happened there? Yes.
Well let me talk about it holistically.
I think from the trade spending point of view I guess what it comes down to is the programming.
I mean if you looked at our advertising in the fourth quarter on a ratio basis it was at the level -- it was down about 10 basis points as we said in the release.
But overall our commercial investment was up a multiple of that.
And when we think about trade promotion there are 2 aspects to it.
One is pure price and the other is consumer spend which can include price but it can include activity at the retail level.
And think these days about anyone's shopping experience particularly in the developed world one gets messaging from the traditional media engagement from social media and other "word of mouth type" messaging.
And then what one encounters at retail which is substantially different today than it was even 5 years ago.
And we have talked from our side about Colgate business planning about better understanding of pricing as a competence in our company and the use of analytics.
And these things all tied together when you come to retail.
We were able today to construct programs that may be built around price but are much broader than that at the retail level and are as we call them integrated communications that go from a television ad to the activity that consumers see at retail or the coupons that they might receive directly or indirectly.
You can do good analytics on it.
It's very targeted.
And you can collaborate with retailers against it and you can track to make sure that it is not damaging brand health but rather an additional component that is strengthening brand health.
So that's how we think about it and that's really how we deploy our numbers.
We don't tend to think of it from a leverage point of view.
We tend to build even our traditional advertising plans and the promotional plans which go to retail from the ground up against the programming we have rather than a leverageable ratio going forward.
Now as to your question on interest expense this actually has been a very conscious and focal area for us this year and will continue into 2013.
Obviously as you have seen from our releases we have taken advantage of a low interest rate environment here in the U.S.
to structure debt at very low coupon levels as you know and have also which has been part of our capital structure planning located some of that cash in overseas markets where we see deployment opportunities.
And with that cash there the investment returns we are getting are quite elevated.
And so as we plan forward and again this was planned for 2013 we're looking at net interest expense being basically flat with expense and income offsetting one another.
So net income basically flat for 2013.
Now in the fourth quarter of this year obviously we got a pickup as you say but of course that was fully offset by the increase in tax rate from the fourth quarter of last year.
So we view those as offsetting items.
And we'll take our next question from Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So clearly you're affirming the double-digit EPS growth for the year x top [ph].
But I haven't heard you say directly the organic top line growth of 6% to 7% which you said in the last conference call is still intact.
So is that the target? Is it smooth throughout the year? And you may talk about Venezuela in that context.
And I thank you for giving us more detail on what the organic sales growth and gross margin would have been x Venezuela in the quarter.
But to be fair would you mind elucidating what your organic sales growth and gross margin would have been x Venezuela over the past 3 4 5 years? Well yes I guess I would mind I guess is the straightforward answer.
And the -- looking forward -- I thought I had said it earlier but if I didn't then let me say now that indeed we do reaffirm our 6% to 7% organic growth for 2013.
And the reasons are innovation stream the return of our Hill's business to volume growth and what we believe is an executional focus that we have in all parts of the world but particularly in the emerging markets to make sure our distribution and our in-store visibility and activity truly engages the consumer.
And remember the Venezuela impact in the fourth quarter was a very unusual impact.
And our next question comes from Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on Venezuela and then another question.
On Venezuela is there a catch-up that will happen in the first quarter with things back to normal in terms of when you see those sales materialize and boost organic growth? And then just the regular question is on the new product launch this year is it in roughly the same in terms of kind of revenue generation and timing as we're trying to model out? If I take the second question first if you think about our innovation in total I think the contribution to the top line from innovation in total will be around the same level as it was in 2013.
Quite how it profile across the year I must say I don't have.
And from a Venezuela point of view it is -- and that will be around 7% to 8% by the way Bill.
And from a Venezuela point of view the first quarter as I said is back to historical levels but I wouldn't think there would be a rebuild of any significance from a modeling point of view.
And our next question comes from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> I have a question a follow-up on Brazil and basically in the context of also what is happening in Europe.
As I understood it you held up market share in Brazil this quarter but do you see this 50% shipment growth that one of your competitor indicated early this week as a leading indicator of heavier competitive activity in the future as opposed to now? And in the context of the need of upping reinvestment in Brazil I would like to bring up this issue of Europe where you had seen negative pricing pressure for 3 years.
Is this because of your home care business which is low in terms of strategically and financially in your ranking? And if that's the case should you consider doing something more drastic in Europe maybe divesting home care if that's the core of why pricing has been negative for so long? Okay Javier.
Well let me take your 1 question in the 2 parts it was asked starting with Europe.
At first we were pleased with the organic growth we got in Europe albeit volume-driven in the fourth quarter.
Secondly the -- a pricing negative relates to the European environment and has been that way for the same years you quoted.
It is not especially oriented towards our home care business.
You may recall that when we talked about our global growth and efficiency program we very specifically said that we were in a world where growth rates in our categories was going to be driven by the emerging markets in those high single digits low double digits ranges.
And that the category growth rates in the developed world would be low single digits and in Europe definitely low single digits.
And that therefore that we wanted to go forward and lower the structural costs in our company that would increase our speed and efficiency and strengthen us for the longer term with these concepts both hubs Colgate business service centers and of course more facility rationalization.
And you will remember that one of the first announcements we had relative to that program was indeed relative to Europe.
So I think we've been attentive to the world that we are living in.
We like our businesses.
We don't think we have a business problem and we are trying to create structures that will make us strong not just today but for the medium term.
Now relative to Brazil and 50% volume numbers I seem to recall over the last 3 to 4 years there have been quite a few plus 30 plus 22 types of volume numbers quoted.
And our reaction would be you can see the market shares.
We see the competitive activity in the country and I think we have demonstrated over the last several years an ability to meet that competitive activity.
We have said that over that period a lot of it was price promotion-related.
The latest entry now gives competition to the Luminous offering that we had in the marketplace already at pretty strong share levels and you will continue to see our innovation at play in Brazil and other countries as we work our way through 2013.
And we'll take our next question from Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just want to I guess go back to the organic sales question just some of the I think numbers that you threw out there.
You talked about the innovation I think being 7% or so this year.
Is that right? Yes.
7% to 8% sales for the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then with the 6% to 7% I guess I just want to talk about the pricing element like how you look at pricing this year relative to some of the maybe incremental promotion out there and then put into context when you look at last year the pricing that came through.
Because half of that 6% organic sales was price what was the kind of impact that you saw on volumes? I'm just trying to reconcile the numbers to get comfort with that 6% to 7% that you've laid out.
Yes I think Jason as we think about pricing again take the more strategic perspective.
We called out back-to-school 2 areas that we were going to over time build competence in.
One was pricing and the other was analytics.
And to a certain extent they go hand-in-hand.
And we have definitely been focused on that and trying to find the right balance between pricing and volume.
So this year as you say it's been about half and half price and volume in terms of that 6% organic growth.
Next year we are looking at pricing that's going to be in the 1.5% to 2.5% range reflecting our capability in that area.
About 1/3 of that is going to be rollover pricing from 2012.
The balance will then be a volume and again back to the reasons for the confidence in the volume the turnaround of Hill's from a negative volume to a positive volume business and the growth we have in the emerging market and the innovation stream that we have behind our businesses.
So this is built up from the ground up and we feel reasonably comfortable with where the plan sits.
And we'll take our next question from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can we get some more color on sort of the mechanics of the restructuring program like when the savings are going to come through where the big buckets are? Maybe I missed over the last few months but maybe great to just get some color on sort of if you got anything to date and when you're going to see sort of the big uptick in the savings.
Yes well the -- I think we spelled out the savings we were expecting this year and the onetime charges we were expecting this year so savings in the $30 million to $40 million after-tax range and onetime charges for this year in the $185 million to $220 million this year being 2013.
So that's what we are looking at.
Now the buckets I think of the buckets that we frame the program with when we started.
They will be this notion of "hubbing" or they are operating units around the world so that smaller operations can benefit from greater capability in the hub center the Colgate business services center that we have talked about for quite some time out of Warsaw in terms of the operating efficiency and related savings that you get with that and the rationalization of our facilities largely manufacturing which you started to hear about in Europe a little bit earlier.
And in terms of the timing of the savings for 2013 as Bina said as you would expect it will come more normatively towards the back half of the year.
And so by deduction you can see that the majority of the savings will come in the out years and we will talk about progress on those out years as they become concrete.
And our next question comes from Christopher Ferrara with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Ian can you talk I guess a little bit about the innovation stream? I guess one of the things that I think some investors are a little bit concerned about is just the ability to lap what look like a pretty aggressive new product flow in 2012.
And I think you had a number of what you might describe as platforms like Optic White and Luminous White that really impacted '12.
So as you move to '13 that 6% to 7% organic growth rate obviously that's a big number considering the innovation pipeline last year.
So I guess can you talk a little bit about a what does that pipeline look like in '13 relative to '12 with respect to your number of kind of big hit innovations? And I guess put that in the context of what your growth rate looks like.
Yes well again this year we delivered around 6% organic growth.
And next year we're talking about the same 6% to 7% range that we had for this year.
And as I mentioned earlier we expect innovation to deliver about 7% to 8% of the sales in 2013.
We think the pipeline is strong.
Unfortunately for the question you're asking some of the products that are coming to market have not yet been announced and it would be remiss of me to provide competitive advantage.
But we have a very good we believe process in place from an innovation point of view.
We have talked about it many times.
We have external linkages.
We have innovation centers around the world.
We have long-term innovation groups.
We have a strategic group that needs to try and accelerate capital investments and other investments that might be required to accelerate an innovation.
And we have even done some of these rapid innovation models as we have talked before in some of our emerging markets to identify innovations that are directly for those categories.
So we think we have a process in place that will give us an innovation stream as productive as 2012.
And remember in that organic growth for 2013 the innovation that is now coming to market from Hill's is going to we believe turn that business positive from a volume point of view.
And of course that's an important factor not to forget either.
And our next question comes from Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
You might have answered this at the beginning of the call but if we look at margins in Latin America and Asia in both those regions they were down year-over-year while they were up a lot in the U.S.
and Europe.
The first question is about in the emerging regions.
If you were to take Venezuela out I know you commented on the gross margins but would operating margins have been up and the same is true for Asia Africa or similar questions.
With competition rising do you expect margins to go up or down ahead in those 2 regions? We don't comment going forward Alice on operating margins.
Clearly given what we said on the gross margin the operating margin in Latin America would have been higher in the fourth quarter of 2012 had it not been for Venezuela.
So that is indeed true.
And again for 2013 we have said that we plan for our gross margin to increase by 50 to 100 basis points and we have reaffirmed the top line at 6% to 7% organic and the bottom line at 10% on a dollar basis x a significant deval or macroeconomic event.
So that's where we are on the margin.
We were very pleased with the pricing we've been able to get relative to margin.
And obviously in the U.S.
you have the comparison between the fourth quarter of 2011 when we were investing at very elevated levels to introduce Optic White from where we are this year with that innovation still driving share growth in the U.S.
I would add.
And our next question comes from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] has the gross margin buildup for the quarter you could go through that? I thought you'd never ask.
So if you take the fourth quarter we have the prior year gross profit at 57.7%.
Pricing added 0.9 point.
Our Funding the gross savings came in strongly at plus 2.8 points 280 basis points higher than prior year although 2012 followed the same profile as last year.
And material prices were a negative 2.9 percentage points and the majority of that was the operating costs in Venezuela as we have said earlier.
So with no other changes then that roll forward therefore gets you to the 58.6% in the fourth quarter.
And we'll go next to Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
I have a housekeeping question and then a real one.
What's the normalized contribution in Venezuela to sales and earnings? So if here you would exclude the fourth quarter disruption.
And then could you also explain the big increase in North American operating margin? Is it sustainable or were there some onetime factors that caused it to go up as much as it did? Yes.
Let me take your second point first.
The operating margin as I said in North America was a reflection of the fact that in the fourth quarter of 2011 we had very elevated investment behind the launch of Optic White and of course we didn't cycle that this year.
I wouldn't project out at the fourth quarter level in North America going forward.
Now relative to your second question I think we said Connie that Venezuela represents about 5% of our sales and that is what we provide.
And our next question comes from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I just want to understand.
Ian if you could help.
What has -- what took you by surprise in Venezuela? Because I do get the sense that you weren't expecting quite as severe volume hit or cost hit.
And what has changed as you look at the first quarter? I guess there was incredible uncertainty after the election and in the lead-up to the inauguration.
But I would say the biggest factor was the labor slowdown in our facilities and that was something that took us time in conjunction with our local management in conjunction with our workforce and with support as I said from government -- appropriate government ministries.
And we have resolved the labor slowdown that we had basically in the November December months.
And in January as I said a little bit earlier our factory in Venezuela where we make about 85% of what we sell is back up running at normal historical levels.
And of course the sales have bounced back meaningfully from the November December levels of last year as we have product to supply the market.
So it really was that and the correction is as I laid out.
And I think if you read some of the general press as we have tried to say in our release I don't think that was -- at that particular period was a situation unique to Colgate but that really was the issue.
And our next question comes from Alec Patterson with RCM.
Ian just quickly I was curious.
The interest expense sort of the cost of financing initiative that you talked about earlier if you do unfortunately have a Venezuelan devaluation would that dramatically change the ability to generate strong interest income? Yes many things would be affected.
I think Alec that would.
And our next question comes from Mark Astrachan with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One quick question and then a follow-up to that.
Double-digit earnings growth is that still 10%- to 11%-type range? Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the follow-up.
So I'm just trying to reconcile 6% to 7% sales growth to that number.
So...
Yes sales growth yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So benefits from 3 restructuring programs budgeting oil last time at $110.
So obviously it's lower than that the interest expense benefit share repurchase.
I guess where are the incremental spend or where's the incremental spend going? If you could maybe help us sort of reconcile those 2 numbers the sales to earnings that will be helpful.
If you're trying to get at the top line where is the incremental spend going to drive the 6% to 7% top line well it's going into commercial spending which is to say spending we do directly with retailers.
It's going into traditional advertising.
It's going into innovation.
It's going into overhead of SG&amp;A because we will in some locations be strengthening our on-the-ground capability.
So it really is geography- and project-specific.
Yes.
And so that's where it's going but remember that the restructuring savings in 2013 are in that $30 million to $40 million after-tax.
So it's a relatively modest number compared to what has yet to come.
That does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I'll now turn the conference back over to our speakers for any closing remarks.
Well thanks for your questions.
Thanks for joining us always a pleasure.
And a particular big thank you to the Colgate folks who may be listening or read the transcript who actually make all this happen.
And particularly thanks to our folks in Venezuela.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Company First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and is being simulcast live at www.colgate.com.
Just a reminder there may be a slight delay before the question-and-answer session begins due to the web simulcast.
At this time for opening remarks and introduction I'd like to turn the call over to Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Bina Thompson.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Melissa.
Good morning everybody and welcome to our First Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
With me this morning are Ian Cook Chairman President and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller; and Elaine Paik Treasurer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements and these statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
So for information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements on Forward-looking Statements.
This conference call will also include a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures which differ from our results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
We will discuss organic sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and divestitures.
We will also discuss gross profit gross profit margin SG&amp;A operating profit net income and earnings per share excluding the impact of certain items described in the press release.
And a full reconciliation with the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the press release and is posted in the For Investors section of our website at www.colgatepalmolivecom.
We're very pleased with the way the year has started out continuing the momentum with which we finished 2012.
Our organic sales growth was robust up 6% and even more satisfying considering the strong organic sales growth of 6.5% in the year-ago quarter.
Our worldwide market shares are up across all oral care categories.
An improvement in gross margin has allowed us to support new and existing products with increased advertising while still delivering a healthy bottom line.
Macroeconomic challenges continue to present themselves particularly in the more developed parts of the world and of course more recently in Venezuela.
But despite that our business is strong both from a P&amp;L and a balance sheet standpoint with excellent cash generation.
Our global growth and efficiency program is on track.
Just this quarter we announced several initiatives.
First in Europe we are creating an oral care center of excellence by moving our consumer innovation center our category management group and our consumer insights group all to Basel Switzerland where they will be combined with our professional affairs and technology group already based there.
As you know Basel has been the headquarters for our GABA business so this newly formed organization will be able to benefit from GABA' s long-standing expertise in the areas of professional affairs and technology.
Also announced this quarter is further progress in the area of Colgate business services.
Applying our learnings from our existing center in Warsaw we will be establishing a global center in Mumbai and a regional center in Mexico City and we will be migrating additional financial functions to all 3 locations.
As you know another element of our Global Growth and Efficiency Program is to expand our commercial hubs.
Just this quarter we announced our intention to hub Romania with Poland Czech Republic Slovakia Hungary and the Baltic countries to create the Central Europe East hub.
The hub center will remain in Warsaw Poland.
And this hub-ing will allow us to be more efficient drive smarter and faster decision-making strengthen capabilities on the ground while improving our cost structure.
And of course as we generate savings from these projects we can provide funds for reinvestments to sustain our growth opportunities around the world and especially in the fast-growth emerging markets.
So let's turn to North America.
We're very pleased with the strong results in North America.
The strong organic sales growth of 5.5% was a good balance of 3.5% volume growth and 2% pricing because as you know pricing excellence is a key focus for us around the world.
We told you about a number of new product launches last quarter which has contributed to the strong results and which helps drive our oral care shares referenced in the press release.
Our shares are also up in body wash and in fabric conditioners.
And as you know in the U.S.
we only sell fabric conditioner in Hispanic markets where it has now reached a national share of 16.3% on a year-to-date basis up almost 1.5 points from the year-ago period.
We're very excited about a significant launch in this quarter of Colgate Total Mouthwash our second entry in the U.S.
in the mouthwash category after Colgate Optic White Mouthwash.
This is a very exciting opportunity to offer a complete regimen solution under the Colgate Total brand.
The new mouthwash offers a number of benefits: 12 hour protection even after eating and drinking kill 99% of germs fights formation of plaque and gingivitis and has no burn of alcohol.
Trade reception has been very encouraging and the product will be supported by a very robust integrated marketing campaign with both in and out-of-store activities.
Our off-shelf displays are at record levels.
And along with Colgate Total toothpaste and toothbrushes the complete regimen is being backed by a compelling new claim: improve your mouth health in just 2 weeks.
You may already be aware that we've engaged Kelly Ripa to be our new spokesperson for the Colgate Total brand.
Kelly has extremely high appeal among consumers and our ad with Kelly as the face of Colgate which aired in February tested extremely well.
She will be an integral part of our launch for Colgate Total Mouthwash as well.
In other categories we will be launching spring and summer seasonal hand soaps under the Softsoap brand in both foam and liquids.
Consumers enjoy decorating their homes with these fun designs which provide everyday specialness and variety.
New product activity will of course continue as we go through the year.
Turning then to Latin America -- I'm sorry turning then to Europe and South Pacific.
We're also pleased with the modest growth in this region given the extremely challenging macroeconomic conditions across Europe.
Countries such as Greece Spain and Portugal are experiencing negative GDP growth and high unemployment.
But we do see a few bright spots Germany and the U.K.
for example where GDP is growing.
Given this environment it is critical that we provide the consumer with value-added products that meets their needs and this has indeed been happening.
A number of new products were referenced in the press release across categories which contributed to our good results in the first quarter.
Our regional market shares are solid.
Our leading toothpaste share of over 33% and manual toothbrush share of over 22% both on a year-to-date basis are even with the year-ago period.
Market shares in battery toothbrushes and mouthwash are up year-over-year.
Market shares are also up in underarm protection and in fabric softener where we reached a record 26.4% on a year-to-date basis.
More new products will be launched in the second quarter.
In toothpaste we'll be launching a number of new products across our sub-brands.
In the whitening category we are launching Colgate Max White One Luminous a toothpaste with Smart Foam which whitens teeth all around.
Under the Max Fresh brand we are launching Colgate Max Fresh Maxi Clean which penetrates between teeth for an intense brush of clean.
We told you in the fourth quarter about our first-ever launch in the rechargeable electric toothbrush market.
Colgate ProClinical was introduced in the U.K.
in September of last year.
This quarter we launched in the Nordic countries and in Germany under the elmex brand and we're quite encouraged by our results so far with good support from both the trade and the professionals.
GABA continues to perform well especially in Italy where sales of GABA products are up double digits year-over-year.
To help continue our strong results we're launching 2 new products under the elmex brand: elmex sensitive professional mouth rinse with effective and lasting relief for tooth sensitivity; and elmex erosion toothbrush which provides superior clean while still being gentle on tooth enamel.
In personal care we are launching new body wash products under both the Palmolive and the Sanex brand: Palmolive Mediterranean Moments which nourishes your skin and delights your senses; and Sanex [indiscernible] which helps restore the skin's natural moisturizing level.
As you know home care is an important business for us in Europe and we will introduce new products in this category as well.
One interesting one leverages the consumer preference for natural and traditional ingredients.
Ajax authentic cleaners with freshness of Aleppo soap and sweet almond oil.
So a lot of activities support this business.
Now let's turn to Latin America.
We're particularly pleased with the strong organic sales growth in Latin America given the challenges we happen to face in Venezuela.
Market shares are strong across the regions.
In addition to increases in manual toothbrushes and mouthwash our shares are up year-over-year in both underarm protection and bar soap.
In bar soap we are at a record year-to-date share of over 32% up almost 1.5 points year-over-year.
And we are now the market leader in 9 countries in the region.
Both our Palmolive and Protex brands have contributed to this strong result.
In the first quarter we did a relaunch of Colgate Total in Brazil and Mexico and will roll this out to other countries in the region in the balance of the year.
Part of this includes a compelling new marketing campaign based on the fact that Colgate Total 12 continuously protects you from bacteria for up to 12 hours.
And we'll have more innovation in oral care in the third quarter.
In the second quarter we have some exciting activity across personal and home care.
In Mexico we just introduced 2 new underarm bundles.
The first is for men: Mennen Speed Stick Neutro Power which provides protection that doesn't interfere with a man's fragrance.
And for women we launched Lady Speed Stick Pro 5-in-1 which offers 5 benefits for complete protection: dry fresh soft no irritation and no white residue.
Our share of the Mexican underarm market is approaching 20% and increased 120 basis points on a year-to-date basis.
In Brazil we are launching Palmolive Naturals body-cleansing Luminous sensation soap with hydrating Argan oil and oil complex to help soften skin.
Our bar soap share in Brazil increased 110 basis points on a year-to-date basis which put us behind the market leader by less than a point.
This new product should help further boost our market share.
Also in Mexico we launched Axion oat with vitamin E dish-washing liquid which combines the proven performance of Axion with the natural ingredients oat with vitamin E.
Our market-leading share in the dish category is almost 50% up 290 basis points year-to-date.
Turning then to Greater Asia/Africa.
This part of the world continues to exhibit strong top line momentum with organic sales growth of 10% the fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit organic sales growth.
Macroeconomic environment across the region is for the most part quite buoyant and our categories are growing mid to high single digits.
Market shares are strong around the region.
In addition to the countries referenced in the press release our toothpaste shares are up in Russia South Africa and Turkey.
In fact in Turkey with a year-to-date share of over 30% we have now taken marker leadership for the first time.
Shares are strong in toothbrushes as well.
In India our market share of almost 41% is up 320 basis points year-over-year further widening our gap with the nearest competitor.
In Russia our year-to-date toothbrush share is now over 50% up 160 basis points as a result of successful new product launches.
And in Turkey our year-to-date toothbrush share is up 130 basis points to 29.3%.
Our mouthwash business continues to grow nicely as well.
In Russia our market share is up strongly to almost 26% driven by the launch of both Colgate Plax Tea and Colgate Optic White.
In China our mouthwash share is over 33% up 250 basis points year-over-year again driven by successful new product activity.
And we'll continue our new product activity in the second quarter.
Colgate Total Pro Gum Health toothpaste introduced into the Indian market in the first quarter where our market share is up 110 basis points over 53% will be launched in China.
Colgate Optic White toothpaste which has driven share in Thailand is now being launched in India and Vietnam.
And in the toothbrush category we will continue the rollout of Colgate Slim Soft Charcoal toothbrush across Asia.
The tapered toothbrush segment is the fastest-growing segment in that category.
Charcoal resonates very well with Asian consumer and is widely used in consumer goods throughout the region for its renowned antibacterial property.
So turning to Hill's.
As expected Hill's organic sales growth in the quarter was very modest.
And as we told you on our last conference call our expectation is that this business should return to volume growth in the second half of the year.
Our confidence is buoyed by the excellent early performance of 3 initiatives here in the U.S.: a complete relaunch of our Science Diet line the launch of our naturals product and the introduction of Hill's Prescription Diet Metabolic.
Sales of our new Science Diet are tracking well and acceptance and shelving by the 2 largest U.S.
pet retailers are excellent.
We supported this relaunch with media starting at the end of February on national TV and that media support is continuing in the second quarter supplemented with digital media.
In addition we will be implementing a sampling program along with a Vets Know Best tour capitalizing on our strong veterinary endorsements.
And as a result we have seen an increase in consumption at both PetSmart and PETCO in recent weeks versus year ago.
The new Ideal Balance is performing well and we've achieved 100% distribution of all items in the superstores.
The transition to natural shelf is taking place and should be completed by the end of this quarter.
As you would expect this also is being supported by a fully integrated marketing campaign through TV digital media and high-impact displays in the store.
Hill's Prescription Diet Metabolic is meeting with success as well both here in the U.S.
and in Canada.
And in addition we launched it as Metabolics in Japan where it exceeded budget [indiscernible].
This complete line of great-tasting dry food wet food and treats ensures safe easy and healthy weight loss without making the pet parent feel like they are depriving their pets.
Weight problems in dogs and cats are common here and overseas.
Social media has been playing a clear role in driving awareness of the product as well as brand recommendations.
Many veterinary clinics have been advertising it on their websites and Facebook pages with photographs of before-and-after examples.
So these launches do bode well for continued strength in the business particularly as they roll out in other markets.
So in summary we are pleased with how we have started off the year.
Our organic sales continue to be strong and our market shares are healthy around the world.
Our clearly enunciated strategies are being well executed by Colgate people around the world.
And in addition our Global Growth and Efficiency Program is on track.
So while we are mindful of difficult economies in some countries we think we have the right plans in place coupled with the strict financial discipline to continue to deliver solid results as we go through the year.
So Melissa that's the end of my prepared remarks and I'd like to open it up now to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Alice Longley from Buckingham Research.
My question is about the impact of the devaluation of the Bolivar on Latin American margins and then overall on your bottom line.
If you could just tell us how many cents you took off the bottom line aside from the onetime charges we know what those are but the effect on the bottom line aside from that in terms of cents and then also margins in Latin America.
Well thanks for the question Alice.
I think we framed early on the impact of the devaluation.
As you say there is the onetime charge from the remeasurement of the balance sheet and then we have said that the ongoing quarterly impact of the devaluation on the impact on EPS would be between $0.05 and $0.07 a quarter.
And that has been the impact in the first quarter.
Now when we focus on gross margin why don't I perhaps take this opportunity to run through gross profit reconciliation and put it in the context of the full year.
So for the first quarter prior year gross profit 58.2%.
And we benefited this year from 60 basis points of pricing no benefit from restructuring thus far.
You will remember we expect the restructuring benefits this year to come in the second half.
Funding the Growth continued to be very very strong 140 basis points of benefit the beginning of exactly the same curve that we enjoyed last year in 2012 a material price negative of 180 basis points.
Now if you break down that material price negative within that there is 120 basis points of negative that has to do with the impact of the devaluation in Venezuela.
You pick up 20 basis points essentially of mix and we end up with the 58.6% margin -- gross margin that we have this quarter up 40 basis points.
And to put that in a year context we came in the year saying that we thought our gross margin might expand between 50 and 100 basis points.
But we said very clearly in CAGNY after the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency that we now expected in 2013 our gross margin to expand between 30 and 70 basis points and so that 40 basis points gain benefit in the first quarter is exactly within that range.
And our next question will come from Dara Mohsenian from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Ian your emerging markets business has held up well despite comments from a number of companies that emerging markets are slowing not just in household products but across CPG in general.
Are you seeing any consumer spending pressure in emerging markets and particularly in Latin America given concerns seem to be cropping up there over a Brazil slowdown and issues spreading potentially out of Venezuela and Argentina? Can you talk about Latin America specifically? And then why do you think your business has held up better than peers in emerging market so far? Yes Dara well we continue to be quite pleased and bullish on the emerging markets.
And in our categories the data we have seen in the first quarter would support that.
If one focuses on Latin America our category growth rates continue to be in the high single digits.
And if you talk about Brazil our business in Brazil was up 17% on an organic sales basis.
If you go around the other emerging markets the category growth rates are increasing very very nicely.
And we see in the Greater China region our organic sales up just under 10%.
In Russia you see us low double digits in terms of growth.
The Latin American number that you have already seen and I have mentioned Brazil.
And even South Africa was up double digits on an organic basis.
The sentiment I'm just back from Southeast Asia and when you look at the data and you talk to consumers one gets the same optimism and confidence in the future that I got the last time I was in that part of the world.
Our market shares likewise in these emerging markets continue to be quite strong.
Brazil our toothpaste share now up just under 72%.
Our market share in Russia approaching 33%.
Our nearest competitor is flat at 15% that 33% is up 1 point.
China we are at about 35% market share and our nearest competitor is down under 18%.
We're up 1 point.
They're down 2.5 points.
So I think both in terms of the consumer their consumption and our ability to grow and then on top of that our continued share progress we feel good about those emerging markets.
We'll now take a question from John Faucher from Morgan Stanley -- I'm sorry JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In terms of looking at the pricing results a little bit of a dichotomy here but I really want to take a look at the North American results where the pricing came in better despite the fact that volume really sort of accelerated against the difficult comps.
So I'm wondering a lot of companies it seems like we're seeing no elasticity as pricing growth decelerates a little bit.
You're not getting the volume pickup.
Can you talk about sort of changes in pricing and where you're seeing elasticity net out in your different categories and regions? To your pricing question I think as Bina said we have and we continue on a journey to make pricing a core competency of our company so that we can best understand the sensitivities the elasticities at how we manage pricing in the mix of all the marketing variables that we are managing around the world.
And we put a lot of pricing model attention to where we take pricing what specific variance what SKUs in those variance how we take that pricing to try and minimize the impact on volume.
And I think we're very very pleased with what we have been able to accomplish particularly as you say in North America where we have managed to take price without prejudicing the volume growth of the top line.
And clearly that is both an objective and hopefully a capability that we can continue to build in the out years.
The next question will come from Javier Escalante from Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> I would like to touch upon Hill's.
I would expect -- would have expected volumes to pick up a little bit more given that you are launching 3 new lines.
Basically is it an issue that is -- because of volume mix that the price points are lower and that's why we are seeing the decline in volumes? And what gives you the confidence that they are going -- that volumes are going to accelerate given that you have very strong competition in the natural segment? Thanks Javier for the question.
I think the answer -- and we appreciate everybody's exuberance and enthusiasm that the volume pickup would come sooner.
But the answer I think is the same as the answer that certainly I gave most recently at CAGNY what I think many of us have been giving over the last several months.
The 2 big initiatives that we have are the relaunch of Science Diet with the more natural profile.
As Bina said in her prepared remarks that product is now fully in distribution.
Media started at the very very end of February so essentially March.
And the sampling and trial program for that business is really commencing now.
To the heart of your question is our response directly to and within the natural segment and that is captured by the Hill's Ideal Balance line.
Again as Bina said we have completed distribution.
And 2 major retailers remember we have a limited distribution profile for this business are PetSmart and PETCO and their shelf set adjustments are basically going in place right now.
And the media on the Ideal Balance line basically started right now as is the sampling program and the consultants in-store behind the product.
As we said at CAGNY a our consumer testing both the pet parents and the pets love the product.
We know the packaging and advertising engages and communicates.
And the support we are getting from the retailers the pet stores and the vets behind these 2 significant initiatives is very strong.
That's what gives us the confidence.
And to repeat what Bina said we remain convinced that this business will return to volume growth in the second half of this year.
And now we'll go to Chris Ferrara with Bank of America for the next question.
Research Division</strong> Can we talk about that 17% number you just threw out there on Brazil.
That was pretty big.
I guess Ian could you maybe break out what the drivers of that were especially as you lap it in the first full quarter of Luminous in Brazil and Mexico? And then I guess as sort of a follow-on can you just talk about the pricing environment in Brazil? Because we've been hearing some stuff.
Obviously there's a change in tax structure.
The government's been increasingly concerned about inflation.
So just any color on that would be great as well.
Yes.
Again and I think we have articulated this many many times on these calls our focus is on innovation-led growth.
To the extent that we can make that premium innovation-led growth that the  consumers will accept we do.
And that most certainly applies to Brazil in terms of a line extension on the back of the Optic White product continued innovation in oral care and across our other businesses.
And you're right Chris that is after dealing with the removal of a tax on product which lowered pricing to both retailers and to consumers and created a little bit of temporary disruption in the marketplace for a couple of weeks.
But it is really engaging with our consumers through marketing where we are using increasingly marketing mix modeling to decide how we best engage with those consumers and deploy our funds accordingly.
And it is innovation behind the full portfolio of products that we have in Brazil and then of course beyond the ground execution and by a very experienced management team in Brazil not just with the modern trade but all the way through the down trade in that large and complex country.
Ali Dibadj from Bernstein has our next question.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just had a quick follow-up on pricing and then the real question.
On pricing it looks like the ratio between kind of your reported pricing as opposed to the mix element which is in your volume obviously from innovation and stuff -- but from a pricing the ratio between that and currency in Latin America has as almost always been quite close.
But past couple of quarters it's not been that close.
And why just to understand a little bit more kind of continuing on the theme of pricing is that really all Venezuela? Or are you seeing things from competition or retailers or consumers or some of these macro fears that kind of put that ratio out of whack? That's kind of the clarification.
But the real question to me is I think you're a good company because essentially trounced all your peers in terms top line growth.
But what we're also noticing for you and others that it's just getting tougher to grow so more expensive to grow.
And I'm trying understand how much of that is short term so macro issues in the U.S.
macro issues in Europe versus long-term kind of secular drivers related to these categories or related to a tougher competitive environment that will be with us for quite some time.
So how do you guys think about this both internally and because from a data externally it does look like the ROI is getting tougher for everybody? Well thanks for the one question Ali.
Starting with your clarification it is exclusively in Venezuela.
The rest has to do with difference in timing of when we choose to take pricing in Latin America or at any other emerging markets so nothing structural or fundamental there.
I would challenge the secular notion and I would challenge this inevitable creep of cost of doing business theory.
I would start by saying you will know well that our return on invested capital is fairly elevated certainly compared to our peer group and to the S&amp;P 500.
But I guess our philosophy starts with the consumer as it should do with all packaged goods company.
And the theory that as marketers we are paid to create innovation the consumers feel they got a value paying for.
And from our point of view we seek to make that value a premium for a premium benefit.
We adjust access to our products by sizing and the pricing related to sizing but we don't.
And we have never subscribed to the notion that price promotion is a way of sustainably growing business.
We respond to it where we need to but we have always put a very large premium on innovation and engaging with consumers around that innovation.
What we have been doing over several years is recognize the fact that you can engage with consumers very well and build brand equity very well at the retail level.
And using our marketing mix modeling we are deploying a lot of in-store techniques that maybe we weren't deploying 10 years ago.
And some of that funding comes from broader commercial spending which you don't see captured in the below-the-line advertising.
So we are putting increased money in that space as well.
And the affordability comes from the benefit of premium-ization our sharp focus on Funding the Growth and the choice we made in the fourth quarter of last year to reorganize with our Global Growth and Efficiency Program to make sure in perhaps a medium-term choppy world we were generating adequate funding to make sure we could sustain the top line growth of the company which on this call we would reaffirm for this year as being between 6% and 7% from an organic point of view.
So it's essentially a focus on premium-ization that the consumer values and a relentless focus on Funding the Growth and now our Global Growth and Efficiency Program to provide the funding that drives top line and also bottom line.
Our next question comes from Wendy Nicholson from Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Two small questions I think.
But number one Bina you called out the customer development initiatives in Hill's and I understand what that is because you had all the new product activity going on.
But in Asia specifically what is that why is it accounted for in SG&amp;A as opposed to gross margin? And is that a function of more competition? And then just a housekeeping item with the relaunch of Total in Brazil and Mexico can you just remind us how big Total is as a percentage of your oral care portfolio? And when you relaunch Total how meaningful can it be in terms of incremental market share? I think you relaunched Total in Europe maybe a year ago.
So is that a big deal or maybe you can frame that? Yes the issue on customer development in SG&amp;A is increased sales capability on the ground in emerging markets most especially in Asia a choice made to make sure we can continue to build world-class distribution in those countries and not simply have the product present but to make sure that we have the product visible and organized on the shelf in the way we would want our brands to be presented.
And as regards Total we don't give that level of segment detail but it is a big business.
And there is concerted effort behind Total here in the U.S.
as a complete equity as we bring the mouthwash to the marketplace in the second quarter.
Our next question will come from Joe Lachky from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess I wanted to kind of take a step back Ian and get your opinion on how you see the vision for your company evolving over the long term.
And I guess you've got really strong execution in your current markets.
And I guess in the near term I see a strong runway penetration market share opportunities riding category growth in your current markets.
But how long can you ride that trend within your current markets I guess the fear being you reach saturation in those markets or there's a slowdown in developing market growth rates? And then the second part of that is -- and what's the next step beyond that? And this maybe like a 10- 15-year type vision.
But how do you see the product portfolio evolving? Are there any new markets to enter? How do you keep that growth going in the long term? Thanks Joe.
I guess this sort of saturation notion is kind of overblown from a theory point of view.
We still have lots of growth opportunity in our existing oral care businesses penetration in some markets per capita consumption in other markets.
And we intend to mine that vigorously certainly for the next decade and more.
Around that we have the opportunity to expand existing businesses that we have that may be pretty nascent to those categories in some of these emerging markets think liquid body cleansing think underarm we can bring to these markets at the right time with the distribution prowess we have in these markets and continue to expand our portfolio quite quite meaningfully.
So I think when you get below the sort of 20 000-foot theory of it and get into the planning detail of actually making a vision concrete and agreeing what it is we should focus on and get done we still think there is enormous growth.
And remember if you take a 25-year view and take category definitions that are oral care personal care pet nutrition and home care.
Within personal care we got into the underarm business by acquiring Mennen.
We got into the liquid skin cleansing business in the U.S.
by acquiring Softsoap that we expanded our footprint in body cleansing in Europe by acquiring Sanex.
So even within the category definitions we have once we've taken every one of them global there is still the opportunity to broaden our representation in segments of categories in which we do business.
Oral care by bringing Total to the U.S.
we just established a global position in mouthwash.
And we're just beginning that journey on powered toothbrushes.
So there is still we think a very bright future for the categories that we have today well beyond the time frame you mentioned Joe.
And our next question will come from Jason Gere with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess just going back I got the context of your 2 pillars of growth hitting the 6% to 7% organic sales and obviously returning back to 10% EPS growth.
So as you see the next wave of restructuring cost savings how do you ensure that you have the right level of reinvestment in there to kind of meet both objectives? So I guess I'm talking a little bit more about the advertising side.
And just as this quarter you hit kind of that 11% level which I think is closer to the highs that you've had can you just maybe walk through what are some of the factors as you look at that reinvestment rate of the savings that should be coming through and helping you over the next couple of years? Thanks Jason.
Well clearly we take a very strategic view on how we choose to reinvest that money.
Frankly we did that before we embarked upon the program.
And we will be making together as a management team with the involvement of our board some choices in terms of where and what the significant aspects of strategic investment will be.
When you bring it down to the notion of advertising investment yes we have taken it up absolutely and is the ratio in the first quarter.
And we said and we stand by the fact that we plan to do that in 2013.
I repeat the point because I think it's important to register it that with the capabilities available to companies like ours today both analytically and in-store technique wise we are quite consciously doing more and more at the store level to engage with consumers because the ability to do that in a very effective return on investment and executional way is significantly greater than it was 5 10 years ago.
And so the investment choices we make when you just talk about advertising will be yes in the traditional advertising engagement areas which you will see below the line but also in the so-called gross-to-net trade spending which kind of comes off the top line but is nonetheless investment funding that we deploy to grow the business.
And I think you can rest assured at least I hope you can rest assured that as a group here we will be doing the right thing in terms of Global Growth and Efficiency plus our ongoing Funding the Growth programs to make sure that we fund the growth while delivering a return.
And now we'll go to Bill Chappell from SunTrust Bank.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk a little bit more about just what you're seeing in especially Western Europe I mean in terms of consumer trends? Is it steady state? Are we bouncing still along the bottom? Are you seeing any signs of hope or any uptake as we move to the back half of the year? We're seeing wild exuberance Bill in [indiscernible].
No I would say certainly the way we have planned this year and the way we have thought about our strategic planning over the next 5 years we are still assuming low growth in Europe.
We think that's the prudent thing to do low single-digit category growth in our case.
You do -- if you want to sort of then go to the next level of detail you do see some buoyancy or greater buoyancy obviously I think in Northern Europe compared to Southern Europe.
We were quite pleased that our Southern European businesses basically performed at the same level that they did in the fourth quarter of last year and we did not see a further deterioration.
But I would say that we are talking about a low growth environment certainly for the next strategic cycle.
If we are proven wrong and there is greater buoyancy then that will be terrific.
But we're not planning on it.
Our next question will come from Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> I did want to go back to North America for a second because I thought it was particularly impressive.
This quarter you guys seem to hit the trifecta if you will.
The volumes were up very nicely pricing was very strong and you also had pretty good margin expansion.
I think you mentioned earlier to a question that pricing is becoming a core competency for you.
But if you look at volumes your 2-year stack volumes in North America were as high as I've seen them in quite some time.
So if you could give us a little more color on what drove the volumes was that pantry loading or trade load and what drove the margins as well? Well I think a few things to say.
Number one and Bina already referenced it we saw some nice share growth across a broad array of categories which means we were growing faster than the rate of category growth.
That was one thing.
Secondly the timing of promotional events that we had in the first quarter of this year was different than the first quarter of last year which you may recall was really the expansion of Optic White.
And thirdly we have begun to build distribution of the Total Mouthwash that we referenced in our remarks.
And as far as the second quarter is concerned I'm pleased to say that we have started off maintaining the pace that we had in the first quarter.
So we feel good about that.
And Ian Gordon with S&amp;P Capital IQ has our next question.
I wanted to ask about your EPS guidance.
I know it's early you only have one quarter under your belt but you did come in at the high end of the 5.5% to 6.5% growth target for the year.
Currency looks to be a little bit more benign for the rest of the year based on today's rates.
The comparisons look balanced a tad bit easier.
Hill's should ramp and you have the restructuring savings starting to flow through.
So what's the missing piece and why shouldn't we expect something maybe a little bit north of a 6.5% dollar growth? Well Ian I think you have to kind of go back to pre-Venezuela and coming into this year.
When we came into this year we talked about EPS growth double digit on a dollar basis.
And many people at the time -- frankly even with the restructuring savings which are relatively modest this year built in people felt there was too much optimism on the top line and questioned our ability to deliver that.
When the Venezuelan devaluation occurred I think we were quickly very clear about the impact.
Obviously the onetime balance sheet revaluation you know well and we shared that the EPS impact would be between $0.05 and $0.07 a quarter.
And we kind of reaffirmed the math this quarter in saying that that would translate to a narrow range of 5.5% to 6.5% increase.
And we stand by that for the year.
And now we'll go to Bill Schmitz from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So Latin American margins do you think they bottomed this quarter? And the reason I ask that is I think the inventory the expensive inventory that was flowing through in dollars probably goes away.
So is there any reason to believe that this isn't kind of as bad as it gets in terms of Latin American margins? I think the opposite of that Bill we have been through these things many many times before devals price controls and the like.
And I think it would be fair to say that our expectation is that we would begin to rebuild margin going forward yes.
And our next question will come from Michael Steib from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a small point for me Ian.
Why was pricing negative in Asia? It was to do with pricing adjustments Michael that we took largely in Africa relative to some uncompetitive market positions.
And our next question will come from Linda Bolton-Weiser with B.
Riley.
Research Division</strong> It's our understanding that you may have another major mass toothpaste innovation new product breakthrough type thing coming.
Do you want to give some more information about that? Our understanding is dentists may start to be educated on it this summer.
And so when would be the launch potential launch of it? Would it be late this year or next year? And then just a clarification on your interest expense line.
It had become an interest income net income 2 quarters ago in the fourth quarter.
Going forward will that now revert to being interest expense? And would $5 million to $10 million per quarter be a good rough estimate for that of interest expense? The answer to your second question is yes.
The answer to your first question is we are always actively pursuing as I mentioned earlier in talking about the innovation point innovation that brings real benefit to consumers and adds value.
And on the assumption we do meet with these professionals in the middle of the year we'll be glad to have one of them talk to you.
And Lauren Lieberman from Barclays has our next question.
Research Division</strong> Wondering if you could talk a little bit about Europe just in terms of margins actually.
Because the margin performance is obviously great and so you're getting really good cost savings there leverage on no volume growth.
So talk about where these savings are coming from and even before you've really gotten going on this latest restructuring program? Well the benefits come from a more benign commodity environment.
The benefits come from our traditional Funding the Growth savings programs and obviously the continued introduction of innovation which we seek to be premium which is therefore accretive to margin.
And as you rightly suggest Lauren and as Bina mentioned very clearly I think in her prepared remarks and as we suggested we might a lot of the structural work that we will be doing around the world has begun in Europe for obvious reasons.
Our next question comes from Connie Maneaty from BMO Capital.
A question on Venezuela.
Can you help us understand what the new mechanism the auction mechanism how it's likely to work and what you know about it at this point? We continue to work with the government in Venezuela to get approval for CADIVI funds for the importation of product and has started the year quite nicely in fact in that regard.
The new auction market mechanism that is replacing SITME whilst we will work with it we understand so far that the tranches of opportunity in that market are basically at about $2 million.
So whilst we will look at it I think in the main we will be staying with the CADIVI process.
Our next question will come from Jon Andersen with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one.
On the advertising spend it was up both absolutely and as a percent of sales in the quarter.
So you're presumably approaching about 11% of sales.
Is that a level kind of where you see some plateauing going on and potentially some leverage going forward? And the incremental spend that you are doing there could you just talk a little bit about the focus? Is it more oriented towards new products in developed markets or more investment behind your emerging markets? Yes is the answer Jon.
It really is all of the above.
I mentioned earlier the increasing focus we have on marketing mix modeling in terms of both our engagement marketing with traditional consumers and indeed our trial and awareness generating advertising for 4 new products in the developed countries.
As you would expect we are moving some of that investment into digital in terms of it being a strong engagement vehicle.
In the emerging markets more traditional vehicles continue to remain both affordable and effective.
And again as I mentioned earlier and we think about the advertising going forward don't forget that we are also putting a focus on what we call commercial spend which is this trade spending which is allowing us to do programs at retail which are not just engaging and persuasive to consumers but also help to build our brand equity and loyalty over time.
So we are managing all of those things.
We do this not on a ratio basis I have to say Jon.
We do it from the ground up market by market against what activities we have in countries as we get into each planning cycle.
So the ratio is an output and the split between the traditional advertising and what we do on trade spending is an output of that planning rather than a set ratio going into the planning.
And our final question will come from Mark Astrachan from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm trying to get a sense of operating margin progression.
So it was up a lot in all segments not including Lat Am and Pet Nutrition.
Ian I think in Lat Am the margins are still down excluding Venezuela currency-related devaluation.
So is there something inherently different on the cost front whether wages inflation or spending that makes Lat Am different from the others? And then also how should we think about progression in those markets like Europe or North America where margins improved nicely? Yes.
As you know we don't talk about operating margins going forward Mark.
But I can say from a gross margin point of view we stand by that 30 to 70 basis points and the EPS that we have guided to that drives from that.
And Latin America I mentioned on the margin roll forward that within the walk-through on gross margin there was a negative of 120 basis points year-on-year for the world based on Venezuela and therefore Latin America.
And that said we still increased our gross margin by 40 basis points.
So the Latin American gross margin is entirely to do with Venezuela entirely.
And it is our thrust geography by geography as you know to expand our gross margin around the world and then to make choices as to how we invest the funds that flow from that.
So given that the Venezuelan impact on the world was 120 basis points you could imagine the impact in Latin America.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I'd like to turn the call back over to our presenters for any additional or closing remarks.
No.
Thanks for all of you on the call.
Thank you very much for your questions.
And as always a big thank you to the Colgate folk around the world who get done what it is agreed we're going to get done.
So thank you.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Company Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference.
Today's conference is being recorded and is being simulcast live at www.colgate.com.
Just as a reminder there may be a slight delay before the question-and-answer session begins due to the web simulcast.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Bina Thompson.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Sarah.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter earnings release conference call.
With me this morning are Ian Cook Chairman President and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller; and Elaine Paik Treasurer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements and these statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
So for information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements on Forward-looking Statements.
This conference call will also include a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures which differ from our results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
We'll discuss organic sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and divestitures.
We will also discuss gross profit gross profit margin SG&amp;A operating profit net income and earnings per share excluding the impact of certain items described in the press release.
And a full reconciliation with the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the press release and is posted in the For Investors section of our website at www.colgatepalmolivecom.
We're delighted with our second quarter results which continue the broad momentum we saw in the first quarter.
Our simple financial strategy has again stood us in good stead.
We increased our gross profit margin while at the same time reducing our overhead expenses.
This allowed us to increase our advertising to drive the top line and still increase operating profit both on a dollar basis and as a percent of sales and of particular note with our 70-basis-point increase in advertising as a percentage of net sales versus the year-ago period the largest increase in 3 years.
Our advertising ratio was up in every division and allowed us to support a very robust innovation program.
As Ian mentioned in the press release our new product pipeline is full so that should bode well for the remainder of the year.
And you'll hear about some exciting upcoming launches as I review the divisions.
In addition to a healthy P&amp;L our balance sheet is solid and our cash generation strong.
As Ian remarked our Global Growth and Efficiency Program is proceeding smoothly as well as our ongoing Funding the Growth program and both these initiatives provide substantial savings opportunities so that we can continue to invest in the business.
So let's turn to the divisions starting with North America.
We're very pleased with our continued strong results in this region.
As referenced in the press release we have good market share progress with increases across several categories.
Of particular note was our launch in May of Colgate Total Advanced Pro-Shield mouthwash.
As we told you last quarter this has been introduced with a regimen concept and displayed with a companion toothpaste and toothbrush under the same brand name.
Across the country we had record regimen displays in-store.
And in June just 1 month after launch we had over 5 share for Total mouthwash with an overall mouthwash share of 8.4%.
As you would expect we had a very robust integrated marketing support plan which included television sampling in-store activity digital and PR campaigns.
In addition we implemented a strong professional plan with both large pumps and small patient samples in dentist offices.
Our field consultants communicated the product benefits such us 12-hour antibacterial protection even after eating and drinking with clear impactful sales materials.
Our share of Colgate Total toothpaste also benefited from the strong display activity increasing from 10.5% prelaunch to 11.5% post-launch.
New product activities continue in this quarter.
In the toothpaste category we are launching Colgate MaxFresh Cool Scrub and Colgate Sensitive SmartFoam with Whitening.
Colgate MaxFresh Cool Scrub builds on the strong franchise that the MaxFresh brand holds in the fresh breath segment.
The freshening segment is large and appealing to young consumers particularly in the 18- to 24-year range.
This new variant has micro scrubbers for a freshness you can feel.
During brushing vigorous silica particles provide a micro scrubbing sensation as they gradually diminish.
The packet sales calls out the benefit with a tagline "Destroys bad breath bacteria from teeth and tongue." Our new sensitivity toothpaste built on the insight that consumers understand that formulas with foaming technology have the capacity to get to tough-to-reach spaces while brushing to help provide sensitivity relief with the additional benefits of whitening and fresh breath.
Colgate Sensitive SmartFoam provides 30% more foam than our existing sensitivity toothpaste along with a maximum strength anti-sensitivity ingredient.
It's also formulated with high-performance cleaning silica to remove surface stains and help keep teeth whiter.
Additionally this is an exciting opportunity as both the premium price sensitive and whitening segments are growing faster than the toothpaste category overall.
In toothbrushes we're very excited about the launch of Colgate SlimSoft.
This product was first launched in Asia and has garnered strong shares in several markets.
In Hong Kong for instance it has a 15.6% year-to-date share and in Thailand almost 10%.
The toothbrush has 17x slimmer tip bristles for a deep clean.
The unique bristles provide a 6x deeper reach than end-rounded regular bristles.
And the higher density bristles provide a unique feel and the handle is flexible and ergonomic.
As we told you in the press release we recently achieved brand market leadership in manual toothbrushes and this should help extend that leadership going forward.
Turning then to Europe/South Pacific.
We're pleased with our results in this region given the very challenging macroeconomic environment.
As you well know GDP growth rates are low to negative and unemployment is high particularly in countries such us Spain Portugal and Greece.
Consumer confidence is low and consumers are looking for value.
While category growth is slowing our market shares across Europe are doing well with increases in toothpaste toothbrushes mouthwash and fabric softener.
Two of our acquired businesses GABA and Sanex are also doing very well.
Both now are fully integrated and we continue to gain learnings and innovation ideas from these 2 high-margin businesses.
In toothpaste we increased market share year-to-date in our 4 biggest countries: France Germany Italy and the U.K.
And pleasingly in the U.K.
our share read for the last 2 periods was over 50% despite a highly competitive market.
In manual toothbrushes we increased share in all but the U.K.
where although the share is modestly down on a year-to-date basis we reached a record share of 33.6% in the most recent period.
We will continue to offer our consumers innovative products at all price points.
We have some exciting innovation providing added value at higher price points.
Under the elmex brand we are launching Colgate elmex Sensitive gentle whitening toothpaste which provides effective protection and gentle care for sensitivity sufferers with the additional whitening benefit.
And a new fabric conditioner Soupline Perfect Glide should help continue the good momentum we have seen across the region in this business.
To lessen the chore of ironing Soupline Perfect Glide has a unique formula with a polymer which allows for easier ironing while delivering an explosion of fresh fragrance.
Since I mentioned a moment ago increasingly the consumer is also looking for value.
To that end we're now relaunching our base Colgate toothpaste business across the region.
The 6 variants Colgate Cavity Protection Colgate Triple Action Colgate Anti-Tartar Colgate Herbal Original White and Gums will all have new modernized designs at affordable price points an important initiative for a segment which still represents almost 30% of our business.
Similarly in Personal Care we're launching Palmolive Essential Body Wash.
This line will be smaller sizes at a lower price providing the value-conscious consumer with the affordable luxury of appealing fragrances along with the quality assurance of the Palmolive brand.
Latin America.
Latin America continues to deliver solid results with another quarter of strong organic sales growth.
And as elsewhere new product activity has been important driver of our business and this is across all price points.
In addition to the market share gains referenced in the press release our market shares increased in underarm protection and bar soaps.
In Brazil our toothpaste market share is up 80 basis points on a year-to-date basis to 71.7% the highest level in 15 years with the most recent read at 71.9%.
Both higher-priced products such as Colgate Luminous White and value-priced products in the Sorriso range have contributed to the share gain.
In Mexico our share is still well over 80% at 81.5% on a year-to-date basis with the most recent read at 82%.
And we're now a market leader in manual toothbrushes in every country across the region including Mexico.
Our share in Mexico was up 220 basis points year-to-date to 44.2%.
In Brazil we achieved a record 31.7% on a year-to-date basis up 110 basis points.
And we retrieved strong results both in the premium segment in the modern trade as well as in the indirect trade where we have been driving distribution and visibility in a retail environment which still represents 50% of the market.
In mouthwash our market share across the region is up 30 basis points on a year-to-date basis and we're now less than 3 points from the market leader whose share has steadily declined over the last 4 years.
In Mexico we reached a record 23.6% almost -- up almost 2 full points on a year-to-date basis with the most recent share at 24.7%.
A new smaller 16-millimeter [ph] size has helped to drive per capita consumption and category penetration.
We're continuing with our new product activity in the third quarter.
As you know across the region Colgate Luminous White toothpaste has met with great success.
The whitening segment is the fastest-growing and Colgate Luminous White is the #1 whitening brand in Latin America.
This month we've launched Colgate Luminous White Advanced in Mexico.
This toothpaste was developed from the insight that many consumers believe only a professional whitening treatment can provide visible results.
It intensifies the whiteness of teeth 3 shades whiter with a unique formula that contains the same ingredients that dentists use.
At the same time in Brazil we're relaunching Colgate Luminous White Enamel Shine with whitening accelerators in a gel formula that also delivers a shinier smile.
In the mouthwash category we're launching a new Colgate Plax 2-in-1 in Brazil.
This product delivers clean and fresh breath and actually shows you how it works.
It contains a unique dual-liquid formula that is activated by shaking and mixing the 2 liquids.
Its electrostatic action removes particles from your mouth and its antibacterial action fights bacteria that cause plaque and bad breath.
So when you rinse out you see the product work with what's in the sink.
In the Personal Care category we're introducing Protex Men Power Shower Gel and Soap in September in Brazil.
This builds on the Protex Men series launched last year which is already the #1 variant in the rapidly growing men's body cleansing segment.
Both bar soap and shower gel offered 10x more protection against odor-causing bacteria than ordinary soap along with a high impact fragrance especially developed for the male consumer.
Turning then to Greater Asia/Africa.
Excellent momentum continues in this region.
A strong increase in gross margin allowed us to increase advertising substantially behind new products resulting in strong organic sales and market share increases.
As referenced in the press release our toothpaste share has increased in many markets.
In India our market share was up over 100 basis points to a record 54.2% on a year-to-date basis.
We achieved gains both in the value and premium segments of the market.
In China our market share increased 90 basis points to 34.4% on a year-to-date basis.
And in Russia the launch of Colgate Optic White drove our share to 33.1% on a year-to-date basis up 130 basis points with the latest reading at 33.5%.
We continue to grow our market-leading manual toothbrush share in India up almost 3 points to 41.3% with our latest read at 41.5%.
Recent programs focused on increasing our distribution in the rural areas of this vast market have contributed to this success.
So we'll continue to launch new products in the balance of the year to help us continue to deliver solid results.
In the toothpaste category we will be launching Colgate 360° Enamel an incremental line extension to our Colgate 360° toothpaste range in China which repairs and protects enamel through the reduction of erosion caused by bacteria.
In the manual toothbrush category we will be launching Colgate 360° interdental in select markets.
This line extension provides consumers with 4x more deeper reach due to its floss-tipped bristles.
And of course as with other Colgate 360° toothbrushes it features a wraparound tongue and cheek cleaner.
In mouthwash in Vietnam and China we will be launching Plax Herbal Salt which addresses local consumer desires for this key flavor profile while also delivering long-lasting fresh breath and reduce bacteria accumulation in the mouth.
In both these markets our mouthwash share is up strongly on a year-to-date basis and this new product should help continue the trend.
In shower gels we're very excited about the launch of Palmolive Gourmet Spa in Russia and Turkey where we saw increased market share on a year-to-date basis in both markets.
This new range has tempting aromas and wonderfully soft textures encouraging the consumer to immerse herself in the ultimate indulging escape.
It comes in the following variants: Enticing Chocolate Veil enriched with dark chocolate and cocoa bean extract; Tender French Vanilla with sweet vanilla extract; and Delicious Strawberry Smoothy infused with strawberry juice.
Lastly Hill's.
We're particularly encouraged with Hill's performance and the fact that we delivered volume growth 1 quarter ahead of schedule behind 3 important initiatives.
Our new product activity across our brands has been very well received by the trade the profession and the consumer.
Our first initiative Ideal Balance which started shipping in May in the U.S.
has done very well.
The placement in the naturals aisles in the pet superstores has been ahead of plan and should be completed by the end of August.
Year-over-year consumption is up at both PETCO and PetSmart and we've been working very closely with both retailers to drive results.
We've had a full marketing campaign including TV and digital media as well as a widespread consumer sampling program.
In addition to the dry and wet dog and cat food we added canine and feline treats in June to complete the line.
And we're continuing our media investment in the third quarter and we'll add more high-impact in-store displays in September.
The second initiative has been the relaunch of our Science Diet line.
At the end of the quarter we added 3 new cat products and 2 new dog products: Adult Grain Free cat Adult Indoor Long Coat cat Senior Indoor Age Defying Cat Adult Grain Free dog and Senior Small and Toy Breed Age Defying dog.
We anticipate that these will be in full distribution by the end of August.
In-store support has included nutrition consultants who'll explain the particular benefit of each diet to the shopper.
Our third initiative is the launch of Prescription Diet Metabolic both in the U.S.
and overseas.
This unique diet to help achieve weight loss in dogs and cats is doing well globally exceeding all targets and budgets.
The repeat rates have been excellent and the launch is driving category growth in the U.S.
and overseas.
So we'll continue to focus on these very important new product initiatives in the third quarter supported of course with the continuation of our comprehensive integrated marketing campaigns.
So in summary we're very pleased with the continued momentum in our business around the world.
Our new product pipeline is as full as it's ever been and that should help continue to drive sales and market shares in both developed and emerging markets.
Our simple financial strategy and sharply focused initiatives are serving us well.
In addition our Global Growth and Efficiency Program is on track to provide even greater opportunities for investment.
Colgate people around the world are working hard to deliver our results and we look forward to sharing those results with you as we go through the balance of the year.
So that's all I had for prepared remarks.
Sarah if we can open up the line to questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll hear first from Joe Lachky of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just first off on your guidance the EPS outlook that you mentioned in the press release.
Just wanted to verify that was solely due to foreign exchange in Venezuela.
And then secondarily along the guidance lines just wanted to verify your outlook on organic growth.
You mentioned 6% to 7% Europe 5.5% year-to-date.
I guess you got a little bit easier comps in the second half but wanted to hear your outlook on that.
And then also if you could talk about your 30 to 70 basis points of gross margin improvement that you're expecting.
Thanks for the one question Joe.
So to come to the points on guidance you are absolutely correct.
Indeed we've already seen some notes where folk have picked that up.
It is entirely due to Venezuela which is unchanged from what we told you earlier in the year and the additional 1% reduction in the range is due to the foreign exchange volatility and the strengthening of the dollar we saw in the last 4 to 6 weeks of the quarter and is predicated against the current spot rates.
The growth part of your question I think merits a little bit of perspective.
As you might suppose we are pleased with the fact that as a company we have this quarter between 53% and 54% of our worldwide sales in the higher-growth emerging markets.
But we also believe that the decisions we took some 30 years ago to focus on the categories in which we do business continue to be a positive factor in the sense that we are marketing products that are everyday-use products for people brushing their teeth cleaning their bodies looking after their homes and indeed caring for their pets.
So we think the category choice is durable.
Now when you look around the world as we have said on many previous calls we continue to see the U.S.
categories grow low single digits.
We continue to see Europe grow extremely low single digits.
Indeed some of the categories are flat and some are modestly negative not new news and something that we have been factoring into our planning for some time.
When you turn to the emerging markets notwithstanding the macro news that we have been reading about our data so far shows that those categories continue to maintain high single-digit growth rates which is very pleasing.
And of course we are focused very very closely on seeing whether any of that macro commentary turns into a category pressure for our businesses.
But that being said even with that we are reaffirming our 6% to 7% organic growth rate for the year.
As Bina said earlier our new product pipeline already executed in the market and the ones that Bina mentioned for the balance of the year is extremely strong.
Secondly we are encouraged by our market share progress around the world which obviously gives you incremental growth beyond the category growth.
Third our Hill's business which we had expectation to turn positive in the second half of the year has indeed done so with a faster start than we were expecting and we get that benefit for the balance of the year.
And finally as many of you have already noted our comparisons in the second half from an organic top line point of view are somewhat easier than they were in the first half of the year.
And then finally on gross profit let me take this opportunity to run through the second quarter the gross profit roll-forward.
So if you start with 57.9% which was the second quarter gross profit in the prior year pricing gave us 40 basis points Funding the Growth following our usual pattern where second quarter Funding the Growth steps up from the first was 210 basis points actually better than what we delivered in 2012.
Material prices were a headwind of 180 basis points and the combination of that and the pricing gives us the 70-basis-point growth that we saw in the second quarter.
And yes we are very much staying with our gross profit guidance of 30 to 70 basis points and of course extremely pleased with the year-to-date progress at the higher end of that range.
And there's one other thing I should add relative to the gross margin and also relative to the earnings guidance because of the currency volatility and that is our plans for the balance of the year of course have us offsetting the transaction impact of foreign exchange in order to continue that gross margin progress.
That's the end of the answer.
And moving on we'll take a question from Bill Schmitz of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It was a monster operating margin quarter in North America.
So can you just kind of dig a little deeper on what drove that and maybe sort how sustainable that almost 30% operating margin is in the home market? Well we were indeed very very pleased with -- I assume monster means good? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes we were very pleased with the progress in the U.S.
Obviously it traces back as you will already have seen to the gross margin which expanded extremely healthily.
And as we said in the release that gross margin obviously used to fund advertising investment and indeed fund a little bit of stepped-up debt for promotional activity which most of you have seen as we came towards the end of the quarter which comes nicely back to the top line and then good control of non-variables in the geography.
So certainly our expectation in our U.S.
business is to sustain the growth in our gross margin whether it will be as strong as the first half of the year which indeed was extraordinarily strong we will have to see.
But our plans in a relatively benign commodity cost environment with our traditional strong Funding the Growth program as we look forward sees us with continued strong gross margin progress.
And moving on we'll hear from John Faucher of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Obviously you guys are holding in better than generally what we're seeing coming out of consumers in Brazil where it looks as though we're getting sort of a stagflation type of environment there.
So can you talk specifically about whether it's stuff you're doing? Is it categories where we're your categories just more resilient relative to maybe what we're seeing in the food and beverage side? And can you talk about sort of the ability -- you talked about transactional pricing to cover transactional FX.
Can you talk about the ability to get further pricing through in that market? Yes John.
Well I guess the headlines would be and indeed that was the point I was trying to make in talking about the categories in response to the first question.
We do think there is a difference between an everyday health and wellness and indeed in Brazil pet nutrition business to perhaps more discretionary types of categories.
As we even saw during the sub-prime you will remember we talked about it that people stayed with behavior in Brazil and we use Brazil as an example.
And they did not trade down.
They stayed if they were buying one of our premium offerings as indeed they are buying Optic White today they stayed with those premium offerings because they saw value in the benefit they were given number one.
Number two without being too self-effacing we believe that the combination of the innovation and the marketing programs that we have in the emerging geographies Brazil being a very good example outsizing outpricing the way we distribute the visibility we focus on at retail when we distribute the timing of our promotions all things that sound extremely fundamental and extremely basic and they are.
But we believe doing them well makes a difference in terms of continuing to reach all of your consumers in the different areas of the country at the different price points that they buy and making sure that you keep that consumer connected to you.
And finally indeed as we speak in many markets we have and continue to move with pricing to the degree necessary to offset the transaction impact.
And up next we'll take a question from Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
I had some more questions about Latin America.
I think you had said in the first quarter that if you were to take Venezuela out your Latin American operating margins were up.
Is that true of the second quarter as well? And then as a follow-up to your comments about Brazil can you give us any sense of how much your volume was up there alone and how much pricing you're taking in Brazil? Alice in response to your comment the answer to the first question is the same answer as it was in the first quarter.
So absolutely yes.
And the answer to the second question is no.
And our next question will come from Ali Dibadj of Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just want to ask a quick follow-up question and then get to the real question on Hill's.
You mentioned a few questions ago that you're offsetting the transactional impact of currencies by taking pricing.
But if 4.5% to 5.5% all-in EPS growth is still double-digit constant currency desk [ph] growth it would seem the top line impact of currencies is less than the bottom line impact of currencies.
So I would love some clarification on kind of that answer you gave a while ago.
But the real question though for me is around Hill's which to your point has clearly started growing the top line again.
But margins were down a couple of hundred basis points for the first half of the year.
And of course that's some launch investments that's the clearly higher ingredient costs as you're going more natural.
But just trying to get a sense from you about what you think the run rate Hill's margin should be going forward and what's the kind of concomitant [ph] in top line growth you would expect with that margin.
Yes well Ali your -- and we've I think at least around the edges had this discussion before.
The impact on the top line of the foreign exchange is about 3% 3.5% and the impact on the bottom line is about 1 percentage point more than that for reasons of geographic mix and dollars denominated corporate overhead and factors like that.
So there is a difference and that's the case there.
Hill's again I repeat we are extremely pleased.
We think we have the right innovation to build the true naturals entry that we have with Ideal Balance to stabilize and rebuild our everyday wellness product in Science Diet and to continue to advance with clinically proven therapeutic efficacy our prescription product Prescription Diet.
As we have said a couple of times but certainly in the first quarter moving to Ideal Balance and relaunching the Science Diet product was a choiceful investment in formulation to be successful and competitive and regrow the business and that is job #1.
I think we have said that our expectation on the Hill's business is to bring that business back to mid-single digits organic growth pace.
And without getting into the specifics you can rest assured that there is a very well-thought-through plan embedded in our strategic planning to rebuild the Hill's gross margin over a period of time.
Our next question today comes from Olivia Tong of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just on margins and more specifically Latin America and Europe.
You guys said that Funding the Growth in the press release was benefiting both regions and other regions as well.
But I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more in detail about how big that might have been relative to other regions? Because I was kind of surprised that you didn't see more of a hit in Lat Am given the FX and that European margins were up given the negative pricing.
And then just following up on European pricing given your plans behind like base Colgate and smaller sizes of Palmolive Essentials do you expect pricing to remain negative in Europe in the back half of the year? Our Funding the Growth has been effective in most geographies.
Remember the drag in Latin America as we said in the release is really Venezuela.
When you look at Europe the benefit there is indeed commodities and our Funding the Growth program.
And I think we made the point in Europe we also saw nice progress on the overhead reduction plan that we have.
So that would answer the question on Europe.
What was the last? Research Division</strong> It was European pricing what you're expecting for the second half? Europe is a very tough environment.
And I think it would be fair to say that in that environment the expectation built into our plan continues to show modestly negative pricing in Europe.
I would say that the innovation spread that we have across all price points which is to say our premium innovation and the value innovation that Bina mentioned is not in any way gross margin dilutive.
And moving on we'll hear from Bill Chappell of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up -- a question on Hill's.
Maybe I don't fully understand why it improved kind of a quarter ahead of expectations.
Because you outlined a lot of initiatives which really didn't kick in until mid or even end of the quarter.
So was it category is rebounding or were there other things that are really driving it? Yes Bill it really is that -- obviously given the time we have waited for this we wanted to be thoughtful about stating when we would see the turn.
The preliminary plans we had showed activity leading to a result in the third quarter.
The fact of the matter is working very closely with those 2 major retailers PETCO and PetSmart the execution was accomplished slightly faster than planned and with good effect as you see.
And then as Bina mentioned also we have now followed that up with a lot of innovation to follow the base innovation towards the end of the second quarter and into the third quarter to keep that momentum going with continued support from those retail partners.
So it really is that simple.
The execution was just accomplished a little bit quicker than we had originally forecast.
We'll hear next from Ian Gordon of S&amp;P Capital IQ.
I just wanted to understand the interplay between the volumes and the pricing in North America a little better.
I think it's first quarter and 1.5 years with price was down but obviously the volumes were great.
So how much of this is consumers responding better to some of the increased promotional activity versus say investments in trial building that are bearing fruit versus mix or something else? And then what is electrostatic action in toothpaste? That sounds interesting.
Okay well first of all a great great name so I'll take a long time answering this question Ian.
The answer in North America is exactly as you suppose which is that it is trial building behind innovation that we have.
Remember in the U.S.
couponing is also included in pricing and that is a very important vehicle in conjunction with retailers to build trial.
And I mentioned given some of the marketplace activity we were facing we indeed stepped up our promotional activity selectively and we like as you say the balance we got for that price versus the growth.
And of course we still saw a terrific expansion in gross margin.
And we've been saying for quite a long time on these calls that when you think about engaging the consumer particularly in the developed markets you can have very strong brand-building programs that would be reflected in price and run in retail environments.
And whilst you've also seen our traditional advertising and promotion increase it is a great way working with the retailers to build trial for innovation.
And you can expect to see that continue out in time.
And electrostatic action is good for you.
And our next question comes from Caroline Levy of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you continue to see such good top line momentum particularly the volume mix whether you would look to reinvest any profit upside in the fourth quarter behind any big ideas that you're working on or even in the third quarter? Yes Caroline we'll let you know in October and January.
But clearly I think the stance we have taken exactly as Bina said is to try and execute our financial strategy to the benefit of the business which is continue to see our gross margin expand continue to manage our overheads very tightly.
And of course as the Global Growth and Efficiency Program works its way forward we will see increased to benefit from that so that we can do precisely that which is to take up our advertising expenditure behind building brands and our overall commercial expenditure behind the same objective.
And we'll move to a question from Michael Steib of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us the actual growth rates for some of the bigger emerging markets China India Brazil and so forth? No.
I wouldn't get into that level of detail.
I will say -- you could say for those markets that you just raised they were all double-digit organic growth rates.
Moving on we'll hear from Connie Maneaty of BMO Capital.
I have a question on Hill's.
Could you comment on the early market share read you have for the combination of Science Diet and Ideal Balance and is Science Diet in particular gaining share? The Science Diet is basically flat on market share at this stage.
Ideal Balance is building share.
The really important data Connie is going to be in the fourth quarter when we start the get the trial and repeat for both of those products and that will shape our investment stance going forward.
It really is a little bit early given the nature of those businesses to see anything dramatic.
So far the trends are good.
Key for me is going to be trial and repeat and we won't have that until the fourth quarter.
And from Barclays we'll take our next question from Lauren Lieberman.
Research Division</strong> So 2 things because everyone was asking more than one question.
First was just -- I thought you guys were relaunching Total in some countries in Latin America this quarter and just -- it wasn't mentioned so I just wanted to know if that happened and impact it may or may not have.
And the second the thing was just on pricing.
I know particularly in North America you commented on choice to increase promotional activity.
But overall with your focus on pricing analytics pricing has been a pretty big contributor to the top line last year.
Europe you've done a really great job to getting it to be less negative and then it kind of dipped down 3% again this quarter.
So maybe tough to look from such a big picture standpoint not into each market.
But from here is pricing a bit less of a benefit? Has kind of price analytics work you've done maxed out its potential in terms of incremental contribution to top line? Or this quarter a little bit more of a one-off? I would say -- first of all let me answer the sort of factual easy question Total relaunch.
We have a new Total variant called Total Gum Health which is what is moving around the world and initial market response has been pretty good.
But that is still in the process of rolling out.
And to be candid we simply just didn't mention it not for any negative reason.
It's still moving I guess is the point.
And no absolutely not from the pricing analysis point of view.
We do think this quarter was a one-off particularly in the U.S.
given the innovation flow that we had and the trial that we were seeking to build behind the mouthwash that we really just launched slap bang in the middle of the second quarter.
We are using it very assiduously.
We're obviously using to help us guide how we take the pricing in the emerging markets to offset the transaction impact on cost.
So no it has neither less focus nor less utilization and it will continue to guide our pricing actions for the balance of this year and of course into 2014 and beyond.
And our next question comes from Javier Escalante of Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> My question is also on pricing but it has to do with Europe.
It's a little bit on a follow-up on Lauren's and it has to do with -- pricing has been negative actually for a long time.
And if you can comment on number one whether it's a specific part of the portfolio? I suspect that it maybe the household product part of the portfolio.
And if so will you consider after a couple of years of negative pricing of making some divestitures in that part of the portfolio? Javier let me -- first of all let me answer the end of the question which is divestitures.
The answer is no.
We think that Europe particularly now over the last several years has been a very difficult environment with the consumer and indeed with customers who are looking for store traffic.
So in the end from a European point of view our planning assumes limited growth in that geography for the foreseeable future.
And you may remember that when we announced the Global Growth and Efficiency Program and indeed with the plans that you have already seen implemented there is a very strong bias to getting our structural costs in the right shape in order to get what growth is reasonably available in Europe and deliver a reasonable bottom line.
So what you're going to see you saw the gross margin this quarter benefit and the focus will be on equally reducing our overheads.
The other point to make in Europe and again we have said this before not just for us but for many there is a bias to activity at the retail level which gets captured in commercial spend not in the traditional A&amp;P.
So you are seeing that too.
And we believe that at some stage Europe will come back.
But as we have said many times it is not in our immediate planning horizon so we're focusing on growth that is reasonable delivered by commercial spend in totality while building gross margin and lowering overhead.
And that's going to continue to be our focus in Europe with all of the categories that we compete in today.
[Operator Instructions] Next we'll hear from Mark Astrachan of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ian you described the inputted cost environment as benign.
And I guess that sort of bears out in the continued expectation for 30 to 70 bps of gross margin expansion.
I guess I'm just curious given the current level of oil does that at some point flow through maybe not this year but next year? And then maybe just comment a bit on broader sort of input cost bucket puts and takes.
And if you could just remind what the oil expectations were for the original budget in '13 that would be helpful.
Yes to answer the second question first and it hasn't changed we had 110 in our original budget so not a factor this year.
And given the performance of oil in the world I think we should defer any discussion about 2014 until we're a little bit closer.
Yes the cost environment is benign as many have seen.
I will make one observation and that is you will remember 3 years ago and before it used to be the case that when foreign exchange strengthened commodities went the other way.
We're not seeing that.
We haven't seen that for a couple of years.
So while benign still elevated and no big correction down in a strengthening foreign exchange environment.
So again we focus on all of the things the pricing the mix the funding the growth and to the extent that global growth and efficiency will benefit our gross margin to offset and continue to build that gross margin.
And with that we have no further questions from our telephone audience.
Well terrific.
Thanks for being on the call.
And as Bina said earlier a particular big thank you to all of the Colgate folk who get this done.
And we look forward to talking with everybody at the end of our third quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
We do thank you all for joining us.
Good day and welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Company Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and is being simulcast live at www.colgate.com.
Just as a remember there may be a slight delay before the question-and-answer session begins due to the web simulcast.
At this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Bina Thompson.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Andrea.
Good morning and welcome to our Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
With me this morning are Ian Cook Chairman President and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller; and Elaine Paik Treasurer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements and these statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
So for information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements on Forward-looking Statements.
This conference call will also include a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures which differ from our results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
We will discuss organic sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and divestitures.
We will also discuss gross profit gross profit margin SG&amp;A operating profit effective tax rate net income and earnings per share excluding the impact of certain items described in the press release.
A full reconciliation with the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the press release and is posted in the For Investors section of our website at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
We're very pleased to report another strong quarter especially with the momentum that has continued throughout the year.
Business is sound in the developed markets of the world and continues to be robust in our emerging markets.
Global market shares are healthy and growing in a number of our categories including manual and powered toothbrushes mouthwash bar soaps and shampoos.
Our simple financial strategy continues to serve us well.
Gross margin increased to 59% approaching our near-term goal of 60% and impressive in the face of a 180-basis-point increase in the year-ago quarter.
Importantly our gross margin savings as well as the strict control of overheads has allowed us to increase advertising absolutely and as a percent of sales and to increase operating profit.
And as you know foreign exchange has been a headwind for us throughout the year.
Our guidance for full year EPS growth of between 4.5% and 5.5% which we provided earlier in the quarter was predicated on more favorable exchange rates than what actually transpired but we were able to offset this with a slightly lower tax rate.
For the full year we expect an effective tax rate of 31.7% well within our ongoing guidance of between 31% and 32%.
Our Global Growth and Efficiency Program is nicely on track.
While the anticipated charges in savings associated with the 4-year program remain the same due to an acceleration of certain projects our current estimate for 2013 is that charges will now be in the range of $365 million to $390 million before tax and savings projected to be between $45 million and $55 million before tax.
We're just now starting to see the effects of these savings.
So a solid P&amp;L accompanied by good cash generations and a strong balance sheet.
So let's turn to the divisions.
North America.
As referenced in the press release U.S.
market shares are increasing in a number of categories.
While category growth overall remains somewhat sluggish we are growing ahead of the categories in virtually every retail environment which is reflected in our market share gains.
We're particularly pleased with the launch of Colgate Total Mouthwash launched in May behind record retail support.
Our highly impactful in-store displays highlighting the importance of an oral care regimen were ahead of our initial goal and up almost 50% versus 2012.
Our overall mouthwash share in the most recent period was 7.3% with Colgate Total Mouthwash achieving 4.2%.
Shares in the Hispanic market were even higher.
Trial and repeat rates have outpaced other recent competitive launches and a robust sampling plan has allowed us to reach 30% of mouthwash households so far in 2013.
In addition our professional plan has included sampling ads in dental journals digital communication coupons dental detailing and communications with leaders in scientific affairs.
As mentioned in the press release we're in the process of shipping Colgate's Slim Soft toothbrush into the U.S.
markets.
As you may recall this product was first introduced into the Asian market and has met with great success there as you will hear later.
Here in the U.S.
the launch is proceeding well.
Beginning this month we are on air with a consumer-validated television commercial.
And in addition our marketing campaign includes strong outreach to health and [indiscernible] magazine editors with over 40 million impressions to date.
Key retailers are providing strong display support.
And in the social media space we have had very positive consumer feedback.
We have more innovation slated for the first quarter of next year which we will share with you soon.
Turning then to Europe/South Pacific.
Results in this region were quite solid given the overall macroeconomic situation.
There have been some very modest signs of improvement.
Consumer confidence in the Eurozone has progressed from being negative 23.7 in the first quarter to negative 16.6 in the second quarter to an early read for the third quarter of negative 10.5.
Germany and France where we have large businesses have recently reported modest GDP growth while Italy and Greece are still negative with continued high unemployment rates.
Innovation is key to driving share and category growth and we referenced a number of successful new product launches across the region in the press release.
Our regional market shares are up in toothpaste toothbrushes mouthwash and fabric conditioners.
Our toothpaste market share is up in both Western and Eastern Europe.
In Eastern Europe our share is up over 1 point to 37.8% on a year-to-date basis with the most recent share at 38.5%.
Across the region our manual toothbrush share is up 230 basis points to 22.3% on a year-to-date basis with the most recent read at 22.7%.
And in mouthwash our share is up 40 basis points 15.2% on a year-to-date basis with the most recent read at 15.5%.
New product activity is continuing in the fourth quarter.
In Oral Care we'll continue with the relaunch of our Colgate base business as well as elmex Sensitive Gentle Whitening which we told you about on our last call.
In addition we are launching elmex ortho manual toothbrush.
This toothbrush is designed to clean in and around braces and other orthodontic appliances.
With a V-trim bristle system soft and long outer bristles gently clean the tooth surface and along the gum line while medium-type short inner bristles clean between and around metal braces.
In Personal Care we maintained the momentum in our Sanex body wash business.
We are relaunching the Sanex Dermo line supported by a full integrated marketing campaign.
The line will have new packaging and a formula with the Dermo Active 3 complex that delivers the 3 key benefits to keep skin healthy: deep moisturization protection and pH balance.
As you know we have a very strong Home Care business across the region.
In France the market-leading dish liquid is our iconic Paic brand a new innovation for Paic is our dish and kitchen surfaces antibacterial with a unique double action benefit of both multisurface and antibacterial supported by the strong claim "Kills 99.9% of bacteria." Turning then to Latin America.
We're very pleased with the strong organic sales growth in Latin America in the third quarter a sequential improvement from the second quarter and a good indication of the health of our businesses despite challenging external factors.
As you know we put a great deal of focus on our on-the-ground execution here as elsewhere and that has paid off.
Market shares are strong across the region.
In Brazil we've consolidated our leading toothpaste share at almost 72% up 20 basis points year to date.
Successful premium products such as Colgate Luminous White and a revitalization of our Colgate Total business has contributed to these results.
In manual toothbrushes in Brazil we continue to widen the gap with our nearest competitor now over 5 points.
Our record year-to-date share of 32.5% is up 20 basis points versus the prior year and as with toothpaste has been driven by the launch of premium toothbrushes such as Colgate 360º.
Our year-to-date toothpaste share in Mexico consistently remains over 80%.
In toothbrushes we reached another record year-to-date leadership share of 44.1% up 170 basis points year-over-year.
In the direct trade both high visibility and our focused regimen strategy have boosted share while specific merchandising plans in the mini marts and mom-and-pop stores have driven results in the indirect trade.
Our mouthwash share is up over 2 points on a year-to-date basis to 23.3%.
Exciting new products scheduled for the fourth quarter should help maintain the excellent momentum in this business.
In Brazil we will be launching Colgate Superior anti-cavity with Nutra Super [ph] Toothpaste.
Nutra Sucar [ph] or Sugar Acid Neutralizer is a breakthrough technology first introduced to the professional dental community at the Worldwide Dental Congress in Turkey in August.
This is the first and only Colgate family anti-cavity toothpaste with Nutra Sucar [ph] to directly fight sugar acids in plaques which are the #1 cause of cavities.
It reduces early tooth decay by half as compared to toothpaste with fluoride which reduces it only by 32%.
And it has 4x greater remineralization than regular fluoride toothpaste.
As you would expect with a major launch such as this it will be supported by a fully integrated marketing campaign reaching the consumer at many touch points: at home with TV print radio and digital on the way to the store with sampling and street activations and in-store with impactful merchandising displays.
In the Personal Care category we're very excited about the launch of men's and ladies' Speed Stick Cool in Mexico.
These 2 new lines of underarm protection contain fragrances inspired and created by the world of fine fragrances.
The spray variance have a new shrink sleeve packaging which provides stronger differentiation on the shelf and a tangible feel that further communicates the Cool concept.
In Asia we're very pleased with the continued momentum with widespread strong organic sales growth.
As elsewhere our consistent flow of new products has fueled this growth and accompanying higher market shares.
In India our toothpaste market share is up 80 basis points year to date to a record 54.3% as premium-priced products such as Colgate Visible White have met with great success.
Similarly premium-priced toothpastes have driven our year-to-date share in China to almost 34% an increase of 30 basis points.
In the Philippines our toothpaste share is up 220 basis points to 55.5%.
And in Thailand our toothpaste share is up 150 basis points to 53%.
And we told you previously about the division-wide launch of Colgate Slim Soft Charcoal manual toothbrush.
That innovation continues to pick up incremental share in all the markets where it has been launched.
As a result the year-to-date market share for both Slim Soft variants is now almost double digits in many countries led by Hong Kong at 20% Thailand at 17.9% and Taiwan at 10.1%.
In India our manual toothbrush share is up 250 basis points to a record 41.6% year to date with the most recent read at 42.2% largely driven by the commercial strategy improvements implemented since the beginning of the year.
Our regional mouthwash share is up 40 basis points year to date to 19.6% with the most recent reading of 20.2%.
More innovation is planned for the fourth quarter.
Two exciting Oral Care innovations are slated for the Chinese market Colgate 360° Enamel Protects toothpaste which builds on the success of the original Colgate 360º toothpaste developed specifically for the Chinese consumers.
The new variant adds the benefit of enamel protection with the whole mouth clean proposition of the original variant which is important as the Chinese consumer believes that enamel is the first layer of protection for their teeth.
In manual toothbrushes to accompany the launch of Colgate 360º Enamel Protect toothpaste we are launching Colgate 360º Interdental toothbrush which addresses the consumer's desire for a clean mouth that she feels is unmet by her current toothbrush that can't get between her teeth.
This brush has slim-tip bristles which reach deeper between teeth for a whole mouth clean.
Africa/Eurasia.
The momentum in this business is strong as well.
As referenced in the press release successful innovations have resulted in good market share increases in some of the largest subsidiaries in the region.
In Russia for example our year-to-date toothpaste market share is up 120 basis points to 33.2%.
In South Africa it's up almost 4 full points to 50.6%.
And in Turkey it's up almost 2 full points 28.7%.
Our manual toothbrush market shares are doing well also.
In Russia our year-to-date share is up 160 basis points to 49.2% and in Turkey it's up 80 basis points to 28.9%.
Similarly in mouthwash our 2 largest markets Russia and South Africa saw strong increases 4 points and 3.8 points respectively while the whole division is up year to date almost 2 full points to 19.5%.
We told you last quarter about the launch of Palmolive Gourmet Spa shower gel in Russia and Turkey.
Results have been strong in both markets.
In Turkey our market share is up from 34% prelaunch to 37.9%.
In the most recent period the Palmolive Gourmet Spa shower gel adding incremental share and now at 7.3% of the market.
This has helped solidify our market-leading position.
We're expecting more innovation in the fourth quarter.
As mentioned earlier we introduced our new Colgate Maximum Protection plus Sugar Acid Neutralizer toothpaste in August at the Dental Congress in Turkey.
Next month we'll be shipping the product to the trade in Turkey with marketing support slated for December and into next year.
In Russia we're launching Colgate Altai herb toothpaste and mouthwash inspired by herbs which are well-known natural ingredients in Russia believed to provide gum protection and which resonate well with the Russian consumer.
And in South Africa we will be launching Colgate Active Salt toothpaste.
In this market rinsing with salt is believed to provide antibacterial protection.
And Hill's.
We're delighted with the continued positive volume and organic sales at Hill's.
Here in the U.S.
both our relaunch of Science Diet as well as the launch of Ideal Balance are performing well.
In particular our Treats and Wet segments are strong.
The investment in store coverage we have made to support these launches is making a difference.
For Science Diet our focused integrated marketing campaign is successfully delivering the message of natural ingredients.
Ideal Balance has received strong support from the large pet retailers and market share has been building.
Early reads on trial and repeat rates are strong and on par with some of the other brands in the natural segment.
The global rollout of our Prescription Diet Metabolic line has also done well.
In Europe our distribution is already above the target we had set for ourselves for the end of this year.
We will continue to support this launch with activities to increase awareness among pet parents about the problem of obesity in dogs and cats as well as trial programs and testimonials.
More new Science Diet products are slated for this quarter and 2014.
Science Diet perfect weight will feature break-through technology into the wellness category with nutrition to help dogs and cats achieve a healthy weight and improve quality of life.
Science Diet Oral Care provides clinically proven kibble technology to reduce plaque and tartar and helps clean a cat or dog's teeth with every bite.
New variants under the Science Diet Life Care umbrella includes Science Diet Sensitive Stomach and Skin Science Diet Grain Free Salmon and Science Diet Grain Free wet for both dogs and cats.
Under the Life Style umbrella Hill's has introduced Science Diet Small &amp; Toy Breed Lamb Meal &amp; Rice Recipe.
Some new items in the Ideal Balance line include Ideal Balance Grain Free Cat.
A good opportunity as this is the fastest-growing segment in naturals.
And another is Ideal Balance Hairball for cats an offering which will be unique in the natural segment.
In the dog category we're expanding our large and small breed portfolios with line extensions.
These are just a few examples of the increased new product activity in the natural segment.
So in summary we're extremely pleased with our results for the third quarter and we expect this good and increasing momentum to continue as we exit 2013.
This good performance is largely result of the strategies which we have in place to succeed in what we call winning on the ground.
These strategies have us refocusing on the basics of our core business and allow us to get better and better at the fundamentals.
Around the Colgate world all employees are well aligned with our strategies and as many of you who have visited a Colgate subsidiary can testify this results in a positive culture with a real can-do attitude.
Our global restructuring program is on track.
Our market shares and volume growth are healthy worldwide and providing good momentum.
And we look forward to sharing our results for the remainder of the year.
And now Andrea I'd like to turn the call over for the Q&amp;A and I'll turn it back to you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to -- volume so -- I mean sorry price.
And so volume was obviously good but the other side is pricing and I guess that was a little bit lighter than I would have expected which is a little usual considering FX is sort of hitting a peak here on the drag.
And I guess when you think about Latin America decelerating and I know Venezuela is a piece of that and then the U.S.
I think last quarter you said -- I think you noted it was a little bit of an aberration.
And Q2 got a little better but -- or sorry Q3 got a little better but not much.
Can you talk about how you're thinking about pricing specifically for Lat Am and for the U.S.
going forward? Well obviously I think the first thing I would want to say is that we're pleased with our overall organic top line growth.
We think it reflects the strategic initiatives that we've been deploying for the last 8 years including the innovation stream that Bina has talked to including the fact that we have 53% of our sales in those emerging markets.
And obviously as you imply Chris the expansion of gross margin is an important part of what allows us to invest behind the innovation we have both in terms of media promotion professional activities and of course as I have said several times before the retailer-led in-store shopper marketing promotions that build trial for our business.
So at the end of the day on a global basis what we're looking to do is to maximize the organic rate of growth and continue to expand gross margin.
So if you look at our third quarter we were very pleased with the expansion of gross margin globally a combination of price and of course a combination of our terrific Funding the Growth savings and that has allowed us to invest in traditional advertising and the broader commercial investment to grow the top line.
Now our objective in Latin America is over time to offset the transaction impact of foreign exchange and there's always a lead lag of that transaction impact.
And as you say the biggest drag on Latin America gross margin is Venezuela.
We were really pleased with the volume-led top line growth we got in that part of the world.
And frankly from a U.S.
point of view we're very happy with the progress of our business.
The second quarter of course was helped by the introduction of the -- the mouth rinse but I think those of you that follow the Nielsen data will have seen and it relates to the share growth that Bina mentioned that our consumption which is to say consumer purchases of Colgate products each month of the third quarter has been higher than the rate of category growth and indeed was accelerating towards the end of the quarter.
And the gross margin expansion in the U.S.
was extremely healthy as you know.
So in the U.S.
case any difference between the volume growth is entirely related to the timing of in-market activity.
But I think the way we manage our business globally gives us the ability to drive our innovation step up the rate of organic growth and continue to build the gross margin.
And that's the way we think about it.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just as a quick follow-up I mean is it fair to say that relative to what you thought was going on a quarter ago or more the best path to organic growth might come with less pricing and more volume? I mean does that make sense? Is that kind of what you're saying? I think all these things are a balance I guess which is what I was trying to say in the remark.
And as you weigh the innovation timing the different geographies we have around the world for this quarter we believed that was the best balance to deliver what we think in today's world is a very strong level of organic growth as a global company yes.
Our next question will come from Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So Latin American margins have been compressing year-over-year over the last year here.
Obviously Venezuela has been a big piece of that but can you help us parse through the underlying margin trends in Q3 x Venezuela? And as we look out to next year are you anticipating that margins in Latin America will start to re-expand at rates similar to your long-term history? Or are there some reasons why this weakness would linger? And then also on the other side North American margins have expanded significantly recently.
Can that continue going forward? And what's driving that? Yes.
Well as you think about this year I think it's fair to say that Venezuela is the unequivocal driver of the margin pressure in Latin America.
And we have consistently said that.
And you will remember at the beginning of the year we said that notwithstanding Venezuela we still expected to expand our gross margin by some 30 to 70 basis points on the year.
And I think based on the performance thus far we feel very comforted if you take the 9 months gone that we think we will be solidly in that gross margin range for the company for 2013.
And of course you can imagine that as we go forward into 2014 even though I said in the release that we have literally just started our budgeting process but in the current more benign commodity environment that we have certainly seen this year and so far moving into next year we're going to continue to expect and see progress on the gross margin line both for the world and indeed for Latin America even including Venezuela.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Ian Gordon with S&amp;P Capital IQ.
On Hill's I think last quarter you did say that you expected to get Hill's back to mid-single-digit organic growth so check there.
And you did also comment that you had a plan to rebuild margins over time.
I'm wondering if you can elaborate on that because while sales growth is good I think profit growth is better.
Well thanks for the question Ian.
The -- we rank sales growth and profit growth equal number 1.
Look on the Hill's business we're extremely pleased with the progress thus far.
And I think when we first talked about seeing Hill's return to mid-single-digit organic growth we talked about it on the back of some strong innovation which would be well received and indeed has been well received by the customers that we work with in this space.
And we said there was going to be an investment in formulation to accomplish that.
So yes to your point check.
We have recovered the top line growth.
We continue to get very strong support from those customers indeed growing support which is encouraging.
And I think that perhaps that growing support traces to the trial and more importantly the repeat levels that we are obtaining for that innovation which is quite robust.
And most importantly as Bina outlined in her prepared remarks the pace of innovation on the Hill's business is now not episodic but indeed planned for and will continue out in time.
So the margin investment was a conscious one but we have specifically said that we will rebuild the Hill's gross margin to the historic levels and are planning accordingly.
And we will see that develop over the next several years beginning in 2014.
Our next question will come from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> A question on global toothpaste market shares.
If you could just talk I think the absence of any commentary on what they were in the third quarter versus a year ago suggests they probably were down and I guess they were down.
But what were the drivers of the declines? And within China your share was up.
Was your share of the Colgate brand up? Or was that all being driven by Darlie? The market share for global toothpaste was 45%.
It was modestly down because of market share declines in a couple of key geographies.
One was Mexico although it's still over 80%.
And the other one which you see I think in the Nielsen data is here in the U.S.
where we have selectively but not completely responded to in-market promotional activity.
And in China we manage both of our businesses to different consumer segments.
And I would say from a recent market share point of view the majority of the growth has been driven by the Darlie brand in China.
And we're still thrilled to be approaching a 34 market share as a company.
We'll hear next from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to go talk a little bit about the advertising and get an idea in terms of are you seeing most of the increase in the absolute dollar spend in advertising is that mostly new product-driven core et cetera? And then can you talk a little bit about some of the geographical mix impacts? Are the lower sales in Latin America because of the FX? I think that's generally a lower ad to sales market.
Is that impacting the number? So just a little bit of an outlook and where you think also your share of voice is now versus competitors.
Wow that's a very broad question John.
Let me try and be as specific as I can.
First of all when we think about brand engagement with our consumers frankly we think about it holistically.
And as I've said before even though it may not be popular because there's still this feeling that if it goes to trade spending it's bad advertising and if it comes below the line as we were all brought up it is somehow good advertising.
The fact of the matter is with the techniques available to you today you can foster some incredible engagement that is brand building and trial generating with our consumers at the retail level.
So first of all we do think about it holistically.
And yes our advertising has increased but so has our total commercial investment.
The second thing then is we build our advertising from the ground up which is to say behind the brand building and innovation programs that we have scheduled for any planning period and the advertising ebbs and flows behind those initiatives and obviously strives to be competitive as you say from a market share and a share of voice not totally mechanistically because there are some principles in terms of how you spend your money with competitors.
And we would say that our advertising up 40 basis points for the company is up where it needs to be up.
It is very much growing in the emerging markets behind the rate of growth that we are seeing there but also in some of the key developed markets depending on our business programs.
And as you know from an A to S point of view it can be misleading because cost of media varies greatly from country to country.
And that is why sometimes the absolute-to-sales ratio differs.
But we're very pleased to be able to keep increasing our advertising to sales level in fairly solid ways we believe.
And we do believe in terms of maintaining the base business and building trial on new innovation we're spending the money smarter faster and more efficiently.
We'll hear next from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
So CapEx was really elevated in the quarter.
Is there some sort of big initiative going on? Or do you just move stuff between the third and fourth quarter? And then just on the advertising front I think you said that U.S.
advertising was down like 130 basis points as a percentage of sales.
Is that like a permanent shift that just you talked about between sort of promotional spending and advertising? Or was that just sort of a seasonal blip in the amount of new product activity going on? Let's answer the second one first because that is I would say more importantly and the answer is it is a seasonal blip I assume that's a technical term which is entirely related to the timing of activity.
Obviously we had very strong activity in North America in the second quarter as we did last year.
But this year of course it was behind the mouth rinse that we brought new to the marketplace.
So this is not a permanent change in strategy.
It is timing related.
The CapEx no the CapEx is certainly not shifting between quarters but it is a reflection I think as we said at the beginning with our Global Growth and Efficiency Program that we would see our traditional 3% to 4% CapEx move up into the 3.5% to 4.5% probably at the higher end of that range in the near term as we undertake some of our capital projects directly related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program.
So planned for part of the program and as Bina said earlier very much on track.
Our next question will come from the line of Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on the North America I know you're not communicating that but can you maybe give us an idea would the volume still be up without the mouthwash business? And are we still kind of early innings there? Just trying to understand from a competitive landscape whether you're seeing kind of increased pressure.
Unilever kind of cited that today and the irrational activity that's tamping things down or whether you're not seeing that in your categories.
Well I think a few things to say and we have said these things before.
First of all the absolute category rate of growth is low single digits.
That has not changed in the U.S.
environment.
Secondly we have seen and we have said this before some levels of short-term activity that we choose not to pursue on the mouth rinse.
It is early innings.
Actually we're very pleased to be north of 7 in terms of market share and we know on that business the trial and repeats are very good.
So we have good ambition for the continued progress of that business going forward.
And I think the most important point to make is to reiterate the fact that for the entirety of the third quarter the consumption Colgate's consumption which is to say consumer purchases from retail was ahead for the entire quarter of the market rate of growth and again towards the end of the quarter actually accelerated as we exited the quarter.
So when you look at a volume number that is shipment-to rather than purchases-of the variance there as I said earlier is timing of marketplace activity at retail with retailers.
The important number is the strength of the consumption number which I know several of you have commented on in some of your Nielsen reports.
Our next question will come from Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Actually a couple of things.
I wanted just to go back to the toothpaste share loss and just to get a better sense of why that is purely Mexico and U.S.
It sounds like it's competitive.
And it also sounds like you think it's going to be short term and go away.
I'd like to ask also on that view a better understanding of your double-digit EPS growth for 2014 as a company in dollar terms this time not constant currency.
And I just wanted to understand specifically given the volatility in currencies can you quantify the currency impact you're assuming in that? And are you including anything for Venezuela or Argentina devaluation which some companies are kind of prudently including in their thought process going forward? Those 2 things would be helpful please.
Sure sure.
The -- let's take the second one first.
As we said in -- or as I said in the quote in our earnings release we have basically just begun our budgeting process for 2014.
And I made the comment that we are targeting double-digit dollar increase in EPS at current spot rates.
Now obviously we're going to work through our budgeting process but those are our goals for 2014.
Clearly what we see on the landscape is a slightly more benign commodity environment than we have seen historically.
And obviously which is the reason we did it proactively when we announced it in the fourth quarter of 2012 we have a Global Growth and Efficiency Program that is running over a 4-year period that we said when we announced it would provide a little bit of cushion or protection against events in the world.
And so we have that as we go into 2014 and the out years.
And our current planning is that Venezuela will continue to be the -- in the position it is in today which as you will see in the Q is about 4% of our global sales and about 3% of our operating profit.
And we have not and we did not previously assumed a devaluation of Venezuela in any way because one doesn't know timing.
One doesn't know level.
What we can say and what we have said before on these calls is that you can rest assured that business is being managed appropriately.
And I think we have always been prompt and timely and comprehensive in updating the market should an event occur in Venezuela.
So that's the way we are thinking about 2014 as we begin our budgeting process in that regard.
Now coming back to your first comment we're actually pleased with our overall market share progress on toothpaste.
I think Bina spoke about Mexico about India about China.
Russia was in our remarks.
Some terrific share progress; in some cases very very strong share progress which we think portends for the long term.
In Mexico and I was just down in Latin America in Brazil and Mexico we saw some short-term elevated promotional activity which we reacted in part but not completely to.
And I feel confident that that will turn around.
And the same comment relative to the U.S.
which you will see in the Nielsen data and we believe innovation-led that will turn around going forward as well.
So we do not have any systemic concern about our share progress.
We know exactly where the short-term issues are and it really is how dramatically do you want to go after promotional activity that you don't judge to be appropriate shall we say in terms of building categories for the long term.
So we're in this business for the long term and we believe that toothpaste share will continue to grow as is our mouthwash share as is our toothbrush share where we're beginning to take more and more market leadership positions Mexico in the U.S.
in manual toothbrushes being of the 2 most recent.
So we believe that we will recover that and we believe that is consistent with our long-term strategy.
Thanks for the question.
Next we'll move to Mark Astrachan with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to follow up on the input cost side.
So I know it's early but can you give us a sense sort of what you're budgeting for oil prices? And then just given views that it seems relatively benign here any rethinking of longer-term gross margin expectations or at least achievement of that 60% number sooner rather than later? Well we certainly -- you look at the gross margin we have this quarter and I think we feel pretty good about delivering that 60% near-term goal in the not too distant future.
But actually as you raised the question why don't I take the opportunity as we normally do to give you a roll forward of the gross profit analysis for the third quarter.
The gross profit in the prior year 2012 was 58.6%.
Pricing in this third quarter of 2013 added 40 basis points.
Our Funding the Growth savings gave us 240 basis points which was actually ahead of the third quarter pace last year.
And you know well Mark that the Funding the Growth savings tend to build quarter by quarter over the year.
We had a headwind of 220 basis points of material price.
That was split between the commodity costs and transaction costs because of foreign exchange as we have said before.
And then there were 20 basis points of ins and outs which got us to the 59% or plus 40 which we're quite pleased with.
And as I said earlier in the call I think we would characterize the commodity environment as relatively benign at least as we begin our planning process which is a favorable.
And our going in position which was determined a little while ago was to peg oil at $110 for 2014.
Now that's Brent.
Today as you know it's drifting around the $107 $108 but it's a brave man or woman that predicts the price of oil going forward.
So we're quite happy with that projection going in.
Next we'll go to John (sic) [Joe] Altobello with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
I guess first staying on 2014 for a second and the per share outlook for next year.
You mentioned that you are seeing a little bit more benign commodity environment than you were expecting.
Are you guys assuming that most of that drops to the bottom line next year? Or do you think that could lead to a bit of a heightened competitive environment? And I guess what's baked into that double-digit outlook? And then maybe secondly if I could follow on to that a number of your CPG peers have talked about a slowdown in emerging markets and obviously you guys have not seen it or at least not seen it at a high level.
Is that because you're in more growth advantaged categories or is that more market share growth or a combination of the 2? Well let's take the second point first because I'm not going to answer the first point.
The -- when we think about our businesses as you rightly say Joe we think about it in terms of the categories in which we do business.
And as we have said for a long time for a company that has 53% of its business in those higher-growth emerging markets we continue to see category growth rates our categories in the mid to high single digits sometimes a tad better than that but certainly solidly in the mid-to-high single digits.
And we see the category growth in the developed world in the low single digits.
And I would venture to say although I wouldn't want to take this as irrational exuberance that there are some indications from the European environment that maybe we are reaching the bottom here.
But still our general thinking is that the Europe and North America will be growing low single digits.
Yes we are growing market share and that on top of that mix of growth rates we believe puts us in the position to deliver the kind of growth this year that many at the beginning of the year did not feel was probable.
And so we continue to look to drive next year based on our innovation plans category by category and obviously we'll be able to see -- to say more when we speak to you in the New Year once we have been through that process and closed out this year.
Now in terms of that commodity environment we have literally just begun our planning process.
As we have said many times our belief is that you build categories by building brands which is a combination of building your base business and adding relevant innovation.
We do not believe that the short-term pricing activity accomplishes that nor do we believe it is rational or sustainable.
So I think the approach we have for 2014 which is the same as the approach we have for any year is to build what we believe is a business-building program rich with innovation that will drive the top line of the company and the bottom line as well which is the start point for our budgeting process underway.
Next is Michael Steib with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
Just curious does the separation of the Asia and Africa regions is that purely a reporting change? Or does it have any implications for the strategy or the management of the portfolios within these markets? Well to answer directly the second half of the question the answer is no it does not change the strategy one iota.
Frankly Michael as you are probably aware all companies go through a process with the SEC relative to their 10-K filing where comments are made and a dialogue between companies and the SEC is undertaken.
And we ended up in a very constructive conversation about the growing importance of Africa and Eurasia in our world and concluded in conjunction with the SEC that it would be appropriate to separate those businesses purely from a reporting visibility point of view.
And that is what we have done.
So you can now see that Latin America Asia and Africa/Eurasia are growing high single digits from an organic point of view.
Our next question comes from Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
I have a guidance-related question and then something on toothpaste.
You guided to EPS a share up 4.5% to 5.5% or you repeated that from the past.
If you use the midpoint of that that implies a significant deceleration in the fourth quarter.
So I'm wondering if you're actually more comfortable with the upper end of that guidance.
And then the other question is about the sugar acid toothpaste.
Is there any chance that gets launched in the U.S.
in the reasonable near future? Well I think to answer your second question first the answer is that the acid-neutralizing toothpaste we initially launched in Turkey at the IADR that was held in Turkey.
As Bina said we have -- we're just going to market now in Brazil.
Frankly given the prevalence of the disease condition you will more likely see our global expansion go to the emerging markets first because that's where there is the greatest need and we believe the greatest potential.
So our planning would see us do that.
And relative to the EPS yes we would be comfortable with the upper end of that range.
Next we'll go to Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I actually wanted to ask about -- I also wanted to ask a question on the anti-cavity toothpaste.
Could you talk a little bit about how you expect the product to kind of impact your growth? Is it going to be a matter of incremental share gain? Or is it a product you expect to accelerate category growth rates in that kind of lower end of the market where anti-cavity is priced? Yes it's a very interesting question Lauren and I don't have a precast answer for it.
The way we're approaching this is I mean it remains the world's biggest oral hygiene condition.
And so our marketing approach here is a little bit different than a traditional innovation which is to say we are working very diligently to engage both global and more especially local health organizations and in countries health ministries to be able to inculcate good oral hygiene habit relative to cavity.
Now in Brazil for example we are enrolling the support and I won't mention how many because it's an impressive number of community health people who are essentially government employees to help take this technology and the benefit it can provide to rural communities and schools to really make the superior benefit that this anti-cavity toothpaste can bring 20% reduction shown clinically for the product to try and boost oral hygiene.
Now whether that will lead to category growth by increased consumption or I mean one would hope so but I don't have any empirical evidence to suggest it but certainly the marketing approach we are using is seeking to do things a little bit differently than we have done.
We will learn our way from the initial markets and hopefully be even more progressively stronger in terms of how we engage local education groups and health ministries to really make a push on advancing the reduction of cavities as a global problem.
Our next question comes from Olivia Tong with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I also wanted to follow up on the anti-cavity toothpaste.
Given the positioning of that would you expect that ultimately over time that could take over Big Red? And then what kind of implications would that have on margin? Maybe but I think that's going to be a long slow steady journey.
And were it to happen it would be accretive.
Our next question comes from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
I was hoping that you would give us a little information on the projects you've undertaken in North America and Europe that have resulted in this year's operating margin expansion.
Well I think in the main those that relate to overhead we have been very public about whether it is facility rationalization in Europe whether it is regard to some of the co-locations that we have undertaken in Europe and even though it doesn't affect our performance this year including the relocation of our facility in Morristown New Jersey to Carolina which won't actually provide a benefit this year but will in the future.
So those are the principal changes that have taken place from the overhead point of view.
And then of course you have the very good growth that we have seen in the gross margin which is a combination of our Funding the Growth programs.
And they would be the 2.
And when I talked about co-location I guess the other way we have talked about co-location is the notion of hubbing which is this idea of grouping operating units around sort of a mother core which we have been doing for 15 years now starting in Central America.
And we know it strengthens as Bina called it our winning on the ground capability while at the same time saving us money.
Our next question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to go back to something you touched on in your answer to Lauren's question on engaging Brazilian government employees to take the product around.
Are you essentially getting a government endorsement on this? And then secondly stepping back to another question on China we're looking at the most recent China Nielsen data through July August and I know we're missing a month of the quarter there.
But it does show a very rare share loss for your aggregate business both H&amp;H and Colgate while P&amp;G gets better and the category decelerates on lower price growth.
So I was hoping you could talk about the dynamics of what's happening in China and what maybe drove those share losses.
Wow.
Well to the second point Jason it can and we have seen it in other markets only be short-term promotional activity.
So I don't want to be flippant but we're very comfortable with both our short-term performance in China and the combination of promotion and more importantly innovation-led growth that will continue in all parts of the world.
You may recall that our principal competitors saw their share drop from the mid-20s to below 18% which maybe is why one sees short-term promotion reaction.
But I don't really have any additional comment to offer on that.
Government endorsement I think one has to be careful.
We clearly have endorsement from local dental associations.
We have support from global health authorities and we have the support of a whole cadre of key opinion leaders from many different geographies around the world who have been taken through in great detail the clinical prowess of the product.
In Brazil we do indeed have an exclusive relationship with these government health workers to try and improve oral hygiene.
We had done something similar in Granada.
So it is support and endorsement to eradicate cavities but that is different from kind of a seal of approval endorsement that you get from a dental association.
But I think it attests to the kind of collaborative stance we're trying to take to work to seriously attack a disease condition in fact the most severe disease condition in oral hygiene.
With that I'd like to turn the call back over to our presenters for any final and closing remarks.
Oh that's me.
The -- so listen.
It was great to have the opportunity to share what we believe continue to be very very good top and bottom line worldwide progress.
I thank you for your questions and interest in the company.
And as we always like to say on these calls we particularly thank as Bina said the Colgate people around the world some of whom you meet but these are the people that make all this happen and we deeply appreciate it.
So talk to you next year.
Ladies and gentlemen once again that does conclude today's call.
Thank you for your participation and have a great day.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Company's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Yearend 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and is being simulcast live at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
Just a reminder there may be a slight delay before the question-and-answer session begins due to the Web simulcast.
And at this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Bina Thompson.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Vicky and good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings release conference call.
With me this morning are Ian Cook Chairman President and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller; and Elaine Paik Treasurer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements and these statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
So for information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements on forward-looking Statements.
This conference call will also include a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures which differ from our results compared in accordance with GAAP.
We will discuss organic sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and divestitures.
We will also discuss gross profit gross profit margin SG&amp;A as a percent of sales operating profit operating profit margin net income and earnings per share on a diluted basis excluding the impact of certain items described in the press release.
A full reconciliation with the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the press release and is posted in the For Investors section of our website at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
We are very pleased with our strong finish to a strong year.
We exited 2013 with the strongest quarterly organic sales growth for the year at the high end of our targeted range of 5% to 7%.
We enjoyed good gross margin growth and this combined with a reduction in our fixed expenses as a percent of sales allowed us to increase advertising absolutely and as a percent of sales while increasing our operating profit as well.
This is of course a simple financial strategy that has served us so well over many years.
Cash generation was strong and our balance sheet is solid.
Our savings programs continue to deliver.
Our ongoing Funding the Growth contributed significant savings.
And in addition our Global Growth and Efficiency Program is on track both from a cost and savings perspective.
For full year 2013 we realized savings of $40 million after-tax and expect that number for 2014 to be between $90 million and $100 million after-tax or about twice as much.
And we've made progress in all 3 areas of the program expanding commercial hubs extending shared business services and streamlining global functions and optimizing global supply chain facilities.
Market shares are strong and growing.
We maintained our leadership share of the toothpaste category with strong market share performance virtually everywhere in the world.
Our global manual toothbrush share is up 40 basis points to almost 33% on a year-to-date basis.
And our global mouthwash share is now at 17% up 130 basis points on a year-to-date basis.
Our relentless focus on innovation has paid off and we have more in the pipeline for this year and beyond.
So let's turn first to North America.
We're pleased with our 3% organic sales growth in the quarter given the sluggish macroeconomic environment which resulted in slower category growth as well as a continued promotional and highly competitive environment.
As referenced in the press release our shares are strong in a number of categories.
Good cost control and gross margin increases have allowed us to continue to increase advertising support behind those existing and new products.
Our innovation pipeline remains very full and we have some very exciting activities this quarter.
Our progress in manual toothbrushes and mouthwash in the U.S.
has been excellent.
We have already told you about our record manual toothbrush share of over 38%.
In mouthwash both Colgate Optic White and Colgate Total mouthwashes launched within the last 1.5 years have delivered a full year combined share of 5.6% with the most recent read at 7%.
Retail support behind Colgate Total Advanced mouthwash has been at record levels.
The growth in the category has been totally driven by this new product and added nicely to retail sales.
Over half of the mouthwash buyers are either new to the category or trading up which drives incrementality.
And in addition trial and repeat rates are above previous competitive launches.
As you know our Colgate Optic White products have been very successful particularly as we have been able to drive a regimen approach with toothpaste toothbrush and mouthwash.
New to the franchise this quarter is the Colgate Optic White manual toothbrush and built-in whitening pen.
This product delivered all the benefits important to a whitening enthusiast.
It's effective affordable and convenient.
The toothbrush combines stain-remover cups and polishing bristles while the pen which fits in the handle of the brush uses a breakthrough formula with proprietary silicon adhesives.
Together they deliver whiter teeth in 2 days.
The superpremium price increase is a growth opportunity for retailers while still providing affordable whitening for the consumer.
In the Personal Care category this quarter we are launching Speed Stick Gear antiperspirant and deodorant sticks gels and body sprays.
This new line in underarm protection is targeted towards the millennial male.
It comes in distinctive premium packaging with preferred masculine fragrances and unique clinically superior technologies.
The Speed Stick Gear antiperspirant contains DryCore technology which absorbs better for 48-hour protection.
Speed Stick Gear has been formulated to have excellent adhesion to skin and utilizes a highly effective active ingredient.
As you expect with such an exciting new product the launch will be supported with a full integrated marketing campaign including traditional media digital and other consumer engagement activity.
Also in the Personal Care category we're launching Softsoap Décor Collection liquid hand soap.
This new product appeals to the shopper who's looking for offerings found at upscale specialty stores at an affordable price more typical of mass retail.
The Décor packaging and exquisite fragrances are inspired from specialty.
And while more affordable are still premium-priced to a base liquid soap line which drives trade up and incremental dollars for the retailer.
Initial trade acceptance has been excellent with full distribution at a majority of accounts.
Turning to Europe/South Pacific.
The macroeconomic environment continues to be challenging across most of Europe.
Slowdown in the euro area has continued.
While Germany and France recorded a positive GDP growth Spain Italy and Greece once again reported sharper decreases.
The unemployment rate remains high at 12.1% in November 2013 even though it has been stable since April.
Despite this consumer confidence in the euro area shows nascent signs of recovery since the second quarter which is a modest positive as we enter 2014.
So against this backdrop we're quite pleased with our fourth quarter performance in this region with positive organic volume growth of 3% and solid gross margin and operating margin growth.
In addition as you know many of our global growth and efficiency programs initiatives have been focused in this part of the world and are already manifesting themselves in a reduction of overhead expenses.
Market shares year-to-date are up in toothpaste manual and powered toothbrushes mouthwash deodorants and fabric softeners.
Our innovation program throughout 2013 has been critical to our good market share performance and we expect this to continue into 2014 across all our categories.
In Oral Care we will be launching Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection plus Sugar Acid Neutralizer in select countries this quarter.
As you know this superior anti-cavity toothpaste was first introduced in Turkey last fall and launched in Brazil late in the fourth quarter.
This leading technology is incorporated in the first and only toothpaste that directly fights sugar acids and plaques which are the #1 cause of cavity.
The patented formula helps deactivate sugar acids before they can harm teeth while strengthening and restoring the enamel that helps prevent cavity formation.
The initial introductions in the Nordic group of countries Spain and Portugal will of course be supported by a full integrated marketing campaign including a public health campaign.
In Europe as in other parts of the world the whitening category is large and growing.
This dynamic segment requires continuous innovation and so we are launching Colgate Max White One Optic premium toothpaste in high-impact packaging that offers an instantly visible whitening effect.
To complement the toothpaste we are also relaunching our Colgate Max White One mouthwash which contains an advanced stain-prevention system to seal out stains and seal in natural whiteness.
We're very pleased with the progress our Sanex business continues to make.
Year-to-date market shares are up in both shower gel and deodorants.
And to help continue this momentum we're continuing the rollout of our new Sanex Dermo shower gels with the Dermo Active 3 complex as well as launching a new antiperspirant and a new deodorant.
The first is Sanex Dermo no perfume designed for consumers with very sensitive skin.
The product contains no perfume is hypoallergenic and delivers 24 hours protection.
The second is Sanex Naturprotect extra efficacy containing natural milk mineral alum and an anti-wetness agent which provides protection for 48 hours.
I mentioned earlier the increase in our fabric conditioner shares up 30 basis points year-over-year to almost 25%.
This quarter we are rolling out in Europe a premium innovation which has met with success in France Soupline Perfect Glide which has a unique formula with a polymer that allows for a perfect glide and an innovative aroma technology that makes ironing more pleasant.
As you know ironing is important but most consumers view it as a chore they don't enjoy.
Turning to Latin America.
This region exited 2013 with excellent momentum delivering the strongest quarterly organic sales growth of the year at 12.5%.
Our leadership continues in toothpaste and manual toothbrushes and our mouthwash share is closely approaching the leading competitor.
Our year-to-date toothpaste market share in Brazil is at a record level of 71.5%.
As you know we launched Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection plus Neutrazucar in the fourth quarter.
Early leads show a share of over 3% which has added incremental share to our overall business.
And in addition both Colgate Luminous White and Colgate Total toothpaste's premium price offerings are gaining share.
Our year-to-date toothpaste share in Mexico remains over 80% despite continued competitive promotional activity.
And our business in the traditional trade remains strong and we are building distribution and share in the growing pharmacy channel.
Our year-to-date manual toothbrush share is up 1.5 points across the region with every subsidiary delivering market leadership share gains and holding the #1 position.
Both Brazil and Mexico achieved record shares as they continue to offer the consumer a wide range of offerings at all price points.
Across Latin America in mouthwash we closed the share gap from over 20 points in 2009 to just over 3 points year-to-date.
Innovation have helped this result as well as strong sampling plans across countries to maximize category growth and increase consumption.
Year-to-date our share increased over 50 basis points to 36.4%.
In Personal Care our year-to-date market share increased in both bar soaps and deodorants and we now lead the bar soap market with a 29.4% share -- with 29.7% in the most recent period.
New products in both these categories should help us to continue to deliver strong results.
And as elsewhere innovation continues in the first quarter.
We will of course continue the rollout of Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection plus Neutrazucar toothpaste and expect to build on the success and learnings from our Brazilian launch.
In addition we're beginning a comprehensive marketing campaign behind Colgate Total Professional whitening toothpaste which promises up to 95% stain removal in 2 weeks.
A new offering in our Palmolive body cleansing business is Palmolive Naturals Royal Jelly and Yogurt.
This new line of bar soap shower gel and liquid hand soap contains ingredients well-known for body-cleaning solutions.
Royal jelly is known to nourish the skin while yogurt is known for its properties to soften the skin.
In underarm products this quarter we are launching men's Speed Stick and Lady Speed Stick stress defense deodorant.
Stress-related sweat is induced by a different set of glands that are primarily concentrated in the underarm area.
Unlike regular or thermal sweat that is used by the body as a temperature-control mechanism stress-related sweat comes in unexpected situations.
Lady Speed Stick and Men Speed Stick stress defense formulas activate in those specifics sweat moments offering effective sweat protection.
Turning to Asia.
This region delivered another strong quarter of organic sales growth.
And of particular note both China and India grew organic sales double-digit despite concerns regarding slowing growth in those regions.
Across the region our year-to-date toothbrush share -- toothpaste share increased 20 basis points.
In India our share was up 70 basis points to 54.1% and the strong performance was across all price points.
In China our share increased 30 basis points to almost 34%.
In this market premium brands have performed particularly well our Colgate Optic White as well as some of the Darlie products for example.
Our year-to-date manual toothbrush share increased in 7 of 10 countries.
Our targeted efforts to increase share in India has paid off with our share now at almost 42% up 240 basis points on a year-to-date basis.
Our regional mouthwash share continues to increase up 60 basis points year-to-date to 20.1% breaking the 20% barrier.
Our most recent share was 23.5%.
China has been a particularly successful market for us.
Innovation in both the Colgate and Darlie equities has helped us achieve almost a 35% share of the market up 260 basis points year-to-date.
As you expect we have a robust lineup of new products for this quarter as well.
Our on the ground consumer innovation centers have identified some important consumer preferences and beliefs in which they have developed some relevant and exciting bundles.
In China for instance charcoal has long been believed to have powerful antibacterial properties.
Accordingly last year we launched Colgate Slim Soft Charcoal toothbrush which has been well-received.
This quarter we're launching Colgate 360° Charcoal Deep Clean toothpaste along with Colgate 360° Charcoal toothbrush.
The toothpaste addresses the consumers concern that dirt can be left in between teeth even after brushing by reducing bacteria buildup by 99% even in between teeth.
The companion toothbrush offers charcoal bristles that are slimmer for better cleaning.
In the mouthwash category we're launching Colgate Plaque Jasmine Tea developed for the consumer who wants to use mouthwash to help keep their breath fresh who doesn't like the strong and burning mouth feel.
This mouthwash contains jasmine and tea extracts which provides fresh breath without the burning sensation.
Africa/Eurasia.
Our winning on the ground strategies in this part of the world are resulting in strong performance as well.
Innovation has played a key role in good market share progress.
While our regional toothpaste market share is up 20 basis points on a year-to-date basis it has increased 50 basis points in Russia to almost 33% 170 basis points in Turkey to almost 29% and 300 basis points in South Africa to 50%.
As you know Turkey was our lead country for our Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection plus Sugar Acid Neutralizer bundle and while it is early days initial shares are already at 2%.
In mouthwash our regional share is up at almost [indiscernible] and is now the #2 brand.
More innovation is planned for this quarter.
Colgate Total Pro Interdental toothpaste Colgate Altai Herbs mouthwash and Colgate Slim Soft Charcoal toothbrush just to name a few.
In the Personal Care category an interesting new product developed for the African market is Protex African [ph] therapy.
As you know Protex is a premium brand sold in many developing markets with an antibacterial positioning.
This new mini line contains a unique combination of some of Africa's greatest skin secrets.
It helps protect natural healthy looking skin and comes 2 variants: glycerin and African herbs and cocoa butter and lemon.
Hill's.
We're very pleased with Hill's continued solid performance.
This marks the third quarter of volume growth and the strongest organic sales growth in 5 years.
Also while gross margin as expected was down year-over-year it increased from the third quarter to the fourth quarter and we expect that trend to continue in 2014.
Our launch in Hill's Ideal Balance continues to meet this success.
Early trial and repeat results are very promising.
Now that the product is in the natural section of the large-format retailers cannibalization of other Hill's brands is at an all-time low and sales of Ideal Balance are growing strong double-digits.
Healthy support behind the products will continue in the first half of this year including nutritional consultants at superstores and eye-catching pallet displays.
Our Prescription Diet business remains strong and growing.
We've told you on previous calls about Prescription Diet metabolic.
This breakthrough weight management diet is now sold in over 50 countries and sales are growing at a healthy double-digit rate driving our global share of the weight category up by almost 2 points year-to-date.
This quarter we will be launching another new Prescription Diet product c/d Multicare stress for the nutritional management of urinary tract health in cats.
Stress is an important contributing factor for some urinary conditions in cats.
Prescription Diet c/d Multicare stress has been clinically tested to reduce the recurrence of feline idiopathic cystitis which can arise from stress.
The Q1 launch will be supported by a comprehensive in-clinic communication plan and sampling program with veterinary professionals and their clients.
The feline urinary category is the largest feline therapeutic nutrition category globally.
So in summary we're extremely pleased with the way that we finished the year 2013.
Our organic sales growth was strong around the world our gross profit margin increased and our market shares are healthy.
Colgate people around the world are all focused on our strategies and priorities thereby delivering these consistent strong results.
Our Global Growth and Efficiency Program is on track as are our ongoing Funding the Growth initiatives.
Our innovation pipeline is full and we're excited about the many new product initiatives we just told you about.
So we expect this momentum to continue in 2014 and look forward to sharing our progress with you as we go throughout the year.
That's the end of my prepared remarks Vicky and now we can turn it over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question today from Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> My first question has to do with currency.
In 2012 if currency was a 400 basis point headline pressure on top line can you tell us what it would've been roughly on EBIT and earnings? And to the extent currency rates remain where they are now what are you modeling for 2014 again both on the top and the bottom line? Thanks Wendy and thanks for the question.
The -- I would though before answering it just like to reaffirm how we're thinking about the year 2014.
As we have said before we have been deploying the strategy that Bina mentioned for some 8 years now and we think focusing on that which you can say is focusing on the fundamentals is serving us well.
So as we look at 2014 we're thinking and planning for top line growth to continue in that 5% to 7% organic growth range.
We are looking for our gross margin to expand between 75 and 125 basis points and that traces to a slightly more benign commodity environment the continued strength of our Funding the Growth program the on-plan tracking of our global growth and efficiency program which will also lower our overhead allowing us to continue in 2014 as we did in 2013 to increase our advertising absolutely and as a percentage to sales behind the rich and broad range of new products worldwide that Bina mentioned.
Foreign exchange as we have said before is -- from a top line point of view has a lower impact on a profitability point of view.
So the top line impact in 2014 we have based on the release we sent out a hit of 3%.
And when you look at the operating impact of that it is near a 4% to 5% on the bottom line.
And I think we fairly consistently said the bottom line impact is greater than the top line impact and that ratio has historically been roughly the same.
I would add that with the confirmation of our comfort with the consensus of external analysts' estimates and many of the notes we saw this morning have that spot on you're looking at a dollar EPS increase around 9%.
And I would say that's around 13% on a currency neutral basis.
And that's the way we're thinking about the year.
Research Division</strong> Just as a follow-up to that.
Obviously your savings are accelerating.
So in theory hypothetically suppose the FX impact worsened how do you think about the tradeoffs between taking some of that $100 million of savings and dropping it to the bottom line? Or do you think if FX worsens well then the reported earnings growth would slow? I think Wendy in the world we're in we'll respond to that when the time comes.
We said in our release that the emerging news from Venezuela while not yet clear enough to take a view is not factored in nor any other macroeconomic impact which we cannot yet foresee.
What I would say is that I think as we have shown in the past our response and communication on the view we take would be timely and comprehensive.
And we'll now go to the next question which comes from Ian Gordon with S&amp;P Capital IQ.
Just on the commodities again.
So I think you did again repeat that you're expecting a more benign environment to this year.
Well we have been hearing I think from some other companies that it's becoming a little bit more of a headwind.
So maybe a little bit of color there and maybe that's a good opportunity to sort of give some of the drivers of the gross margin for the fourth quarter and maybe how you're thinking about what the individual components will be for 2014? Okay Ian.
Well let me start first by doing our now customary walk-through of the fourth quarter and take that as a jumping off point.
So if you take the fourth quarter of 2012 the start point is 58.6%.
And if you then work your way through pricing gave us nothing restructuring gave us 10 basis points Funding the Growth strong at the end of the year as it customarily is 290 basis points.
Material prices a headwind of 260 that's a combination of cost and transaction a little bit of -- or another 10 basis points which gets you to the 59 1 or the increase of 50 basis points.
Now as we look at 2014 I said benign.
Benign for us is around about a 1% increase in raw and packing material costs.
And the way we have thought about oil as an input is around $110 and I would say it is in that zone today.
The one thing I would stress is that of course with the recent foreign exchange impacts we have seen there will be a related increase in transaction costs which we are of course absorbing in the plan that we have for 2014 which is going to see our pricing at the higher end of our 1% to 2% pricing target for the year.
We will now go to Joe Altobello with Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> I guess since we just mentioned pricing I'll start there.
In terms of the pricing in the quarter it looked like it was flat overall.
How much of the pricing -- is it easy to tell how much of the pricing is that you took in this quarter or the promotion you took in the quarter was to benefit new product launches and how much of that was a response to competitive activity? And then secondly just a follow-up on Hill's it looked like another very good quarter in the fourth quarter.
Have we turned the corner there on profitability? And should we see a return to more 2012 levels in terms of margins and EBIT there? Okay.
Well thanks Joe.
For us the mix effect -- we have a dollar-weighted volume.
So mix effect is in the volume growth.
So when you think about pricing for us what you see across the divisions is pricing up in the emerging markets obviously beginning to address the transaction impact and pricing in Europe and North America beginning to react to the promotional environment we are in correspondingly negative.
I think the good news is that the organic was still 6.5 and that volume is very strong at 6.5.
And I think very importantly as we think about our marketing mix modeling notwithstanding that position in the fourth quarter our gross margin was still up 50 basis points right in the middle of the guidance we gave there.
So as we think forward and as we have said many many times our innovation seeks to deliver premiumization and therefore be accretive to gross margin by developing ideas that consumers believe they get good value for the premium they pay.
On the other hand from a promotional point of view we don't seek to chase what we think are unsustainable promotional efforts that simply load pantry but will take growth out of future quarters although we will selectively adjust to defend our market share where we feel we need to.
And Hill's we're very pleased with the consecutive quarterly performance on Hill's.
We think it traces as we have said before to a growing portfolio of very competitive innovation in the early periods catch-up.
But I think as Bina went through both on the last call and this call you're now beginning to see I think some innovative market-leading innovation on the Hill's business.
And as we said on the last call we expect that innovation profile to continue on Hill's.
Gross margin is a rebuild on Hill's and we increased gross margin third quarter to fourth.
And again as Bina said earlier we expect that to continue into 2014.
So we're pleased with the pace and we plan to continue that momentum in 2014.
And we'll go to Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Ian just one point of clarification.
The comment about the sequential improvement in the Hill's margins versus Q4's level is that as you move throughout the year in 2014 or is that more just looking at Q1 versus Q4? It's looking at the Q1 versus Q4.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I was hoping you could walk us through what you're seeing from a macro perspective as you look across the various emerging markets geographies any changes in consumer spending or impact on your categories and some of this volatility in January are you seeing any fallout from that? Well the data we have from the categories is fourth quarter data.
It seems to be the topic de jour the emerging markets.
And as we look around our world and we have had several of our executives traveling the world I would say we are seeing consistently what we said on the third quarter call which if you go around the world is basically to say that our categories and I stress we're talking our categories not the macros or a general industry basket our categories continue to grow mid to high single-digits in those emerging markets which is pleasing.
In the North American environment our categories are growing around low single-digits around 2.
And as Bina said in the fourth quarter we saw that slow a little bit.
And as we have said before and it's a view we continue to take on Europe notwithstanding a certain amount of growing enthusiasm for a macro turnaround the overall category growth in Europe is essentially flat with some categories modestly up and other categories down.
And we continue to expect that to be the case for the next several years which was why when we embarked upon our Global Growth and Efficiency Program we said and you've already seen some of it announced that the impact would be disproportionate to Europe because we wanted to rightsize our cost structure against likely more muted category growth in the medium term and that's exactly what we're doing.
So I would say the world continues in our businesses to be pretty much the way we saw it in the third quarter and current data shows no overall change to that.
Next is Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ian I just want to make sure on the Max Cavi with sugar acid I think the comment was you're moving into Spain Portugal and the Nordic countries this quarter.
And I'm just trying to understand I was kind of under the impression you were looking more at developing regions for that first before you moved into developed.
So is that kind of a change and maybe you could give kind of an update of what countries you do plan to go into this quarter? I think Bina mentioned a few of them.
Well the answer to that Bill is we're doing a few things.
I have said before we have said before that we do think the biggest opportunity is in the emerging markets.
Clearly we're using Turkey and Brazil to see the pace of growth we can get there.
The European entries is really to see in a fairly simple regulatory environment what sort of marketplace potential that product may have.
As the year unfolds you will continue to see more of a focus on the emerging markets and the only reason we didn't mention it is that we didn't want to reveal and still don't when and where those entries would be.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to make sure I understand you go in is the entry margin-accretive? I mean is this a higher-margin product than what you're replacing? We're happy with the margin Bill.
And we are happy with the margin.
Let's just leave it at that.
And we'll go to Olivia Tong with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Earlier in the call you batted down some concerns with respect to growth and trade up opportunity in China and India which was helpful.
But are there other markets where you are seeing some pushback? It certainly sounds like growth in Brazil is balanced with growth in the anti-cavity and Neutrazucar as well as Luminous and Total but what about Mexico and other key countries? Yes.
I think I guess there are 2 factors here.
Consumers and I think this is the duty of a consumer marketing company are prepared to buy things that work and deliver a benefit that they see a value with.
And we don't believe that that is limited to certain countries.
We believe that one can develop products that deliver those benefits and that the consumers are prepared to pay for.
And I would say without being too cliché that's a global statement.
So premium innovation can work anywhere and I think it's our duty and our challenge to keep finding ways to make it work.
In certain parts of the world you see a promotional activity stepped up as perhaps some people chase our market share and the view we have taken on these things is that all you are really doing is advancing purchases that that is not a sustainable position to take.
Now as we manage our business planning we obviously manage a repertoire of activities that includes the premiumization that includes an intelligent response to the marketplace environment we have and very much in those emerging markets where the down trade consumer struggles with cash we put enormous focus on sizing and the pricing that goes with that sizing in order to provide an affordable entry point to those consumers even if on a per mill basis they're actually paying more for the product you are meeting their cash outlay needs so it can be accretive from a margin point of view and address the consumer.
So all those 3 things are in play as we think about our business plans market by market.
Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo is next.
LLC Research Division</strong> Ian I was hoping to get your perspective on Latin American pricing.
All right I guess so the gap between price and FX where there's usually some relationship I guess is almost as wide as it's been ever in the last 20 years.
And each time it's been this wide it's gone the other way it's bounced back right? So if you go back to 2002 1995 you've basically taken pricing to cover the currency later.
So I was just wondering if you can give a little insight into whether there's any difference in the relationship between those 2 things today relative to those historical periods that would make us think it wouldn't bounce in the future.
And I know Venezuela is a piece of it maybe some price is actually what's more like mix or volume today but I was wondering if you could just comment on that? Yes.
It's a difficult question to answer crisply.
But you would have to say that Venezuela is definitely a piece of it because that is a constraining factor on pricing given the regulations that are in place today.
And equally one has to say Argentina while intelligent movement can be made it has not been with the freedom that maybe history would have allowed.
And the second point to make is there is always a lead lag to your ability to take pricing.
And frankly in today's world you see such a rapid shift in foreign exchange as opposed to a steady erosion that can be reacted to in a timely fashion that I think yes one will see a catch-up but there is a lag to the catch-up and Venezuela and Argentina are outliers in that regard from a Latin American point of view.
So I hope that was clear.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
That helps.
And I guess just a quick follow-up on Venezuela.
The news you're talking about just to make sure I have it right I mean is this basically the announcement that the SICAD rate could be at VEB 11.3 instead of the VEB 6.3 that we've seen? It is Chris.
And the fact of the matter is there is not enough clarity yet to make a definitive or come to a definitive conclusion as to how that is going to affect the business because you got translation you got historical costs like inventory and you've got the cost of bringing raw materials and finished goods and there is not yet enough definition around all of those things to take a view but it is indeed that news that we are referring to.
And as we said in our release we're still reviewing and assessing to take a position there.
We'll now go to Nik Modi with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Ian if you could just talk about any early insights from some of the Turkey test market or from Brazil on the anti-cavity product in terms of what's going on with category growth? Is it a trade-up? Any perspective you can share on just the dynamics around that product launch? Yes.
First I have to say it is very very early days.
And I think getting too excited is never a good thing ever in my view.
So -- but I would tell you that from a distribution point of view I would tell you from a build of market share point of view and the early trial curve they had been very good in both countries.
We have not yet seen the full impact of the marketing plans we have not yet felt the benefit of the sort of public health programs we're putting in place nor do we have repeat number.
But early indications are growing category growing share and certainly a premiumization in that segment.
So we'll keep you posted on how things unfold.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a quick follow-up unrelatedly.
Just from a competitive intensity standpoint I'm sorry if I missed this earlier I had to hop off for a second but as you look across all of your very heavy share markets when you're 70% 80% share are you seeing some of the competitive intensity settle out or stabilize? I'm just trying to get an understanding of what some of the competitive behavior looked like recently? Yes.
I guess I would say as a general view there seems to be more promotional activity in the developed world and maybe that is people chasing a greater share of a pie that is not growing so fast or in the European case not growing at all.
I would say overall in the emerging markets nothing that we would point to to say a dramatic difference in competitive activity some country to country changes that we have observed not enough to conclude a trend.
And I think we're meeting that hopefully intelligently and well.
We're seeing our share in Brazil up.
We're seeing our share in Mexico hold over 80%.
We're seeing our share in Russia over 33%.
We're seeing our share in China up to 35% and our share in India over 54%.
So I think we are balancing meeting the activity and yet bringing the innovation that provides true growth both from a category point of view and a market share point of view.
But the big picture answer would be nothing to say there has been a noticeable trend change.
And we'll go to Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
A couple of follow-up questions on pricing.
Overall it was flat this quarter and yet you're projecting I think 2% for next year.
So could you specify more where that acceleration is coming? And also this is sort of about 2014 the North America your organic sales growth was 3%.
Is that something that's reasonable to expect for next year? And in answering that can you talk about whether you think you'll start gaining share in toothpaste? Yes.
Okay Alice.
Well the pricing that we will recover in 2014 will of course be global pricing.
But I think it would be fair to say given the transaction impact the bias for that pricing would be more in the emerging markets.
We are pleased with our North American organic growth prospects.
The U.S.
market share is one of many market shares that we have around the world.
And as we said on the last call there has been a shall we say slightly elevated promotional environment some of which we are choosing to respond to and some of which we have not and will not because we don't think it's reasonable.
I do think we will see market share improve over the balance of this year but I would make the comment when you're thinking about a global business you're going to have situations from time to time where certain geographies face short-term pressures.
But if you take the long-term view in terms of our share whether it's North America or all the world you see pretty strong progress and you raise toothpaste as Bina mentioned we're up to a 7% now in mouth rinse and we're fully global in that business 7% share in the U.S.
And of course our toothbrush leadership share is now over 38%.
So we will do what is right by the business and we believe that will lead to share growth.
But we're not going to abandon sensible business principles just to chase market share.
Ian so you're going to be more second half-weighted for EPS growth this year? I wouldn't comment on that Alice.
I wouldn't comment on that.
We'll go to Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So just a first clarification.
Moving from a 6% EPS growth that you delivered in 2013 to the 9% in 2014 I think from your -- from the mosaic of your commentary it sounds like it's more really gross margin-driven particularly cost-cutting and FX.
So just a clarification there.
And then what I've noticed is that a lot of the questions have to do with this volume price differential.
And I know you guys resisted breaking out volume between kind of true volume and mix but given that there's just so many new products coming out it's actually pretty tough for us to figure out what actually is going on in your top line.
So can you give us a sense of quantifying maybe how much of that -- [indiscernible] emerging markets there just your overall "volume number" is mix versus true volume or how much premiumization you get when you on average put out a new product or just something of that nature? And why it's tough for you guys as opposed to every other company to kind of split out that volume and mix within that number? Well the -- to come back to your point of clarification yes I would say the broad headline is that is a fair conclusion.
We will see improvement in our gross margin.
We will see improvement in our overhead driven by the Global Growth and Efficiency Program allowing us to increase absolutely and as a percent of sales our advertising.
And as I said although it's 9% from a dollar point of view it's 13% from a local currency point of view.
And as far as we're concerned Ali the way we have for many many years explained the top line growth of our company is we think translatable.
You see what the organic is you know what the pure SBI [ph] is.
And organic is organic.
So it's in the numbers.
And we think an ability to deliver 5% to 7% organic growth consistently and by expanding our gross margin delivering healthy bottom line growth is a reasonable and sensible model.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So I think the direction is clear on it in terms of the growth it's just difficult to know how much is actually volume growth versus premiumization because one could argue one has a different longevity than the other.
But okay so anyway I'm not going to win that battle today.
To switch on Hill's can you give us a sense of what's going on particularly in Japan? And also just back to this margin question there was a time when the belief was that these margins could go back to historical levels.
And I just want to double check that -- make sure you still feel that.
And in that answer if you could the margin degradation we've seen how much of that is promotional spend so that could go away versus how much of that is the ingredient cost on Ideal Balance is very different and that will remain for a while? Yes.
Thanks Ali.
I think first let's take the Hill's business overall and then the Hill's business gross margin in Japan.
I have to say we are pleased with the Hill's progress in a relatively short period of time.
Remember the U.S.
is the largest part of that business by a long way.
And we believe that we have the portfolio now and the innovation stream to remain competitive not just in the U.S.
but in other parts of the world going forward.
We have said clearly and the plan we have built was to return the Hill's gross profit over the coming years to historical levels and that remains the plan.
We have seen the quarter-on-quarter increase to 4 [ph].
We talked that that would continue into 2014 starting with the first quarter.
And therefore that will continue out in time.
And of course the innovation we are bringing gives us the opportunity to use the mix to further increase the gross margin.
So the answer on that question is yes it is our plan to get back to historical levels and we're on plan and we feel good about that.
Japan which is not an enormous part of the Hill's business we have had some market issues from a distribution and a portfolio competitiveness point of view.
And the innovation work that we have done driven by the U.S.
is being deployed in Japan in 2014 along with some go-to market changes.
And we believe that that will correct the business in Japan over the coming little while.
[Operator Instructions] We will now go to Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I don't know if this is purposeful or not but it seems like regionally when one region starts to sort of show accelerating margins others fall.
So the [indiscernible] the North American margins for instance and now they're hovering above 30% but there's been obviously a fallback in Latin America and some other regions.
So is that part of the broader strategy that we're going to focus on North America from a cost perspective from a mix perspective when that kind of runs its course we're going to move to the next one or is this kind of the natural progression of things? I would say Bill it's the natural progression of things.
We don't sort of rotate businesses across divisions in such a manner.
Yes no is the answer to your question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean so the operating margin in North America at 30% I mean is that sort of hitting against sort of like the natural resistance level of how high margins can go or do you think there's still is kind of more room there to get it up? And then I guess conversely obviously the African business is still very much in investment growth phase because it's much sort of earlier on the consumption curve but could that be the big upside maybe if that 30% starts stabilizing? Well as you know we don't tend to get into discussions on EBIT because it depends where the timing of innovation by geography.
So I would simply bring you back to the gross margin.
And there our objective is to grow gross margins in all divisions year upon year.
And you know that our gross margin in the emerging markets is higher than the developed.
So that will continue to be our plan.
And then depending on the timing of events the EBIT margin will be what the EBIT margin will be.
We don't tend to think or talk about lines of resistance on the gross margin.
When we get to the 65% we'll have another discussion.
And we'll go to Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> First a clarification.
What is your current exposure to Venezuela as of the fourth quarter in terms of profit? My real question has to do again with this pricing topic that had been going on throughout the conference call and has to do with it seems from the outside that you're being conservative in Latin America in terms of pricing.
And at the same time it looks as if when we look at Europe very negative pricing we don't know whether these are real price cuts or these are increases in trade or spending.
But help us understand why you seem to be investing in terms of pricing in a region like Europe that has very little to offer going forward in terms of growth.
And at the same time you seem to be leaving pricing on the table in Latin America at least this is the way that I see it from the outside.
Well Javier let's start with the exposure.
I think for Venezuela point of view we have been very clear in our Qs as to the exposure that Venezuela represents from a global point of view.
And from an operating margin point of view it's 3%.
So that's what Venezuela represents.
I think in response to an earlier question the question mark around pricing conservatism in Latin America as I said earlier Venezuela regulations currently don't permit across-the-board pricing so we take what we can when we can.
And the same is the case for Argentina.
And then you have the customary lead lag between the deterioration of exchange rates and your ability to price to offset the transaction costs.
In Europe it's just a practical reality Javier.
The environment in Europe is basically no growth and that brings pressure from retailers and competitors perhaps who had more of a footprint in Europe than we who want to wrest market share.
And so we deploy the same strategies that we deploy and we have seen terrific progress on gross margin from a European point of view.
And therefore as we think about marketing mix we will do more at the store level in Europe than in other parts of the world and that comes in the pricing line and not in the advertising and promotion line.
And if you look at our market share performance in Europe we think we've got the balance relatively right and that is why -- because our market shares have been going up in Europe from an oral care point of view particularly and that is why our focus in Europe is on structural cost so that we can rightsize the structure to reflect the top line as reality will have it be and not go chase that top line but rather grow more aggressively from an organic point as you have seen in the emerging markets where we're growing double-digits.
So it's a case of balancing against the market realities.
And I guess that's the answer.
We'll go to Michael Steib with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Ian my question relates to geographic mix and what you're factoring in for 2014 really in your outlook.
I mean given that you have some very high-margin businesses in Latin America and in parts of Asia where currencies have been most under pressure I was just wondering how you're looking at the impact of the geographic mix for 2014? Well Michael actually we're quite pleased.
As a matter of strategy with our geographic mix we still believe that having 53% of our business in the emerging world pays us dividend from a growth point of view with categories growing in the mid to high single-digits compared to low single-digits in North America and essentially flat in Europe so we like that.
And when we released our earnings and indeed I said earlier on this call we are happy with the focus on our current strategy.
We think it has served us well for the last 8 years.
So with the geographic mix we have we are looking to continue a top line growth rate of between 5% and 7% which obviously will be more accelerated in the emerging markets than it will be in the developed markets just as we have seen this year.
And with our Funding the Growth program and the Global Growth and Efficiency Program be able to provide the funds to invest in advertising absorb the transaction impact of the foreign exchange changes so far announced and which many of you have already captured and still deliver a 9% EPS growth or 13% on a currency neutral basis.
So that's how we think about our split in the world.
And we'll go to Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask you about the Personal Care launch actually in North America.
I just couldn't recall the last time you guys talked about fully integrated campaign et cetera and new technology in Personal Care particularly in North America and in that deodorant business.
If you could just kind of talk to us about your multiyear goals there maybe where are -- I'm guessing your deodorant shares are in the single-digits today.
That would be great.
They are in the single-digits Lauren.
We're really quite pleased with this Speed Stick Gear innovation.
It gives us a quality concept a quality product and conviction to put meaningful marketing spend behind.
And the trade reaction has been a very very good.
Obviously early days a category that we are committed to globally and you will see a multiyear plan unfold in the United States.
And of course the objective is to get the market share up.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Okay.
And just completely unrelated I just wanted to make sure I read this statement in the press release correctly about currency -- that your current outlook has taken into account some of the dramatic moves that we've seen in emerging market currencies in the last 10 days or so excluding Venezuela but all the other kind of craziness out there you have factored into your outlook? The craziness so far yes.
And you captured it perfectly in your note [ph].
Yes you read it right.
And we'll go to Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital.
Just 2 questions.
One is a follow-up on FX.
If we exclude -- so if we exclude the special cases that are Venezuela and Argentina from FX there is so much fear these days of a contagion of all the currencies falling.
Do you think that's realistic or does your experience since there was the Asian contagion tell you differently about the current environment? To be candid Connie I think you're asking the wrong person.
The notion of contagion of emerging market currencies is not an area of expertise that I would have.
So I wouldn't care to forecast.
Are there people that you consult about this? I'm just wondering if this is a media construct or if it's something you're seriously dealing with.
I think my experience over the last 5 years with foreign exchange is that everybody knows after the fact.
And that coming into any year projections which usually have a broad array of differing opinions are usually wrong.
So we have taken multiple opinions and you can get the answer to the question that you want and we would rather react.
Obviously one plans it's not that one doesn't plan but people coming into the year predicting Turkey predicting Ukraine events in Thailand as we have said multiple times in prior years so many of the things that happen in our world these days even some of the best minds don't know about until after they have happened.
So we do run models and we do have discussions and we do take points of view but it's something that we wouldn't care to predict.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And just one entirely different question.
What does your market research tell you the appeal is of highly flavored toothpaste such as mint chocolate and vanilla mint that are coming on the market next month? And would you be playing in those categories? Well I haven't tried -- I like mint and I like chocolate mint in ice cream.
I must say I had not tried the product I think you're referring to Connie.
We have seen in different parts of the world attempt to come with shall we say very differentiated nontraditional toothpaste flavors whether they be fruits or other things.
And so we will be monitoring as we have done in other cases with interest the performance.
But I guess rather like our view on foreign exchange we have no definitive answer to that question either.
And we'll now go to Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things.
Again on the North American margin which is the highest in the world which is a little different from some multinationals and you said the gross margin is higher outside [ph] but do you see upside to your North American EBIT margin over time do you see steady growth there? Again Caroline you may have missed my prior answer.
We don't comment on EBIT projections for the company.
You can rest assured that our focus continues to be to get the gross margin up as you said and with the Global Growth and Efficiency Program to lower our overheads.
That therefore provides one the opportunity to invest some of those funds and bring other of those funds freed up to the bottom line.
So -- and we will make those choices as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then in Funding the Growth is there any geographic skew to that to where those savings happen? It depends from year-to-year Caroline.
Generally they're pretty broad-based both by geography and by category.
Some years you may have a particular initiative that is powerful in one particular category or for one particular geography.
But usually they're pretty broad-based.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my final question would just be on GDP growth and demand for toothpaste.
It would be intuitive that you'd be less sensitive to swings in demand in other categories.
But if China's GDP growth goes from 9% to 5% I mean God forbid but if it is 5% would you expect that you would still be growing your business just because of the lack of penetration of toothpaste usage? Yes.
Caroline it's interesting.
I would say over many years we have not seen a very strong correlation between modest slowdowns in GDP and the purchasing of our products.
If we look as I said earlier at the emerging markets even into Brazil with the GDP slowdown our categories are still growing mid to high single-digits.
And I think that's a combination of the still emerging middle class our ability to increase penetration our ability to educate to increase usage and our ability to trade up intelligently consumers in the business.
So whilst one can't say they're completely decoupled there's no empirical evidence at least on our data that it directly affects our categories.
And we'll go to John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'll try to keep this quick.
The 13% currency neutral earnings guidance is very impressive particularly given the difficulties out there.
Was that in line with what you were thinking before in October when you guys first gave guidance or have things changed to maybe try to offset some of the incremental impact? It was entirely driven John by the foreign exchange slide that started in the middle of January.
So when we were looking at the world in the fourth quarter we genuinely were thinking and planning for double-digit in dollar terms.
And as I said earlier -- and many people externally to your point in the notes we had seen already reflected those exchange movements excluding Venezuela as we discussed earlier.
And so therefore that change came subsequent to the way we were thinking about the year and indeed talking about the year when we last spoke in October.
Research Division</strong> Well Ian that's great.
Ian I guess my question was was 13% always the number on a currency neutral basis or did that actually move up a little bit? It probably moved up slightly John.
We'll now go to Jon Andersen with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I guess most of the questions that could have -- must have already been asked but I'll focus on online shopping.
I wanted to know how meaningful that channel is for you today is it growing faster than other parts of your business? And I guess the second part would be what's your strategy approach to the online channel? Are there advantages there that you're looking to take advantage of lower cost better margins better targeting of consumers? Just any thoughts on that would be helpful.
Yes Jon.
Well obviously it's much in the press area.
We are today delivering our toothpaste using drones to people in Manhattan.
That was a joke Jon or an attempt at a joke.
It is a high-growth area but it is still an extremely small part of our business today.
We participate with all of the major online shopping portals whether they be linked to a brick-and-mortar retailer or whether they be a standalone both here Europe and in China.
For some businesses we see the potential as greater take Hill's where you have fairly large bags of pet nutrition product in an urban area in Europe we see a greater potential for online.
So we have a multi-point strategy that is an awful lot of -- we call them tests and learns to see how we can engage and connect with the consumer.
So we're experimenting broadly but it is still not a meaningful part of our business albeit with some potential on Hill's in Europe.
And we'll take our last question today from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I had a question on pricing.
No just kidding.
I think we've beaten that horse enough.
Actually most of the questions have been asked.
So I just wanted to turn to the balance sheet really quickly.
Your leverage ratio is incredibly low.
What prevents you from taking on more leverage whether it be to buy growth invest in growth or return some cash to shareholders? Well I think Jason it's funny I think about the year leading into the sub-prime and the questions were remarkably similar why don't you leverage up and do something? Our general thinking on this space is that you've seen our debt move up a little bit although it's still very low 7.5% of our market cap with all of our ratios in a good place.
I guess the view we tend to take is that we like to keep our powder dry should an acquisition candidate present itself.
As we think about 2014 obviously we have not yet taken a decision our board has not yet taken a decision on our dividend.
You know we do that earlier -- a little bit later in this year.
But you can imagine that our dividends would grow in line with earnings.
This year our share buyback was around $1.5 billion and we're thinking in the same range for 2014 unless that appropriate acquisition candidate presents itself and that's rather if we were to prioritize where beyond dividend we would see the money going on the sense that it is strategically of value to the company.
The problem is as you know that an M&amp;A strategy or an execution of an M&amp;A opportunity is often a long and arduous and very unpredictable process so they cannot be done at will.
And of course during the years of the restructuring program we have seen our CapEx increase as we are putting in place some significant projects for the future.
And bluntly that's the profile we'd like to keep and plan to keep going forward.
Research Division</strong> So are you actively pursuing M&amp;A? Or are those comments just meant to reflect your willingness were the right asset come to market? It depends what you mean by pursue Jason.
I don't think you would have to do an awful lot of detailed work to know the kinds of companies businesses that are attracted to people in the consumer product space base.
Garver [ph] was a multiyear journey.
So I think the most appropriate way to answer the question is to say that were the right opportunity to present itself we would actively consider it obviously at the right evaluation.
That concludes our question-and-answer session I'd like to turn it back to Ian for any additional or closing remarks.
No.
Thanks for the extensive list of questions and thanks for taking an interest in the performance of the company.
We will of course keep you updated across the year as is now customary.
And especially big thanks to all of the Colgate folk around the world who make these results happen.
Talk to you soon.
Thank you very much.
That does conclude our conference for today.
I'd like to thank everyone for your participation and have a good day.
Please standby.
Good day everyone.
And welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Company First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and is being simulcast live at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
Just as a reminder there may be a slight delay before the question-and-answer session begins due to the web simulcast.
And at this time for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Bina Thompson.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you Nancy and good morning.
And welcome to our first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are Ian Cook President Chairman and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller; and Elaine Paik Treasurer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements and these statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
So for information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements on forward-looking statements.
And this conference call will also include a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures which differ from our results compared in accordance with GAAP.
We will discuss organic sales growth which is net sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and divestitures.
And we will also discuss gross profit gross profit margin SG&amp;A as a percent of net sales operating profit operating profit margin net income and earnings per share on a diluted basis excluding the impact of certain items described in the press release.
And a full reconciliation with the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the press release and is posted in the For Investors section of our website at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
We are delighted with our results for the first quarter.
As we exited 2013 we said we were excited about continuing our momentum and that has indeed happened.
Our organic sales growth was at the high end of our target range of 5% to 7% on top of strong growth of 6% in the prior year and with a good balance between volume and price.
In fact our pricing increase of 1.5% was against the highest level of pricing performance of any quarter last year and we expect this good performance to continue.
In light of precipitous declines of currencies versus the dollar during the quarter we are pleased that our gross profit margin was even with last year’s level.
While we had forecasted an improvement year-over-year lack of growth was primarily due to the transaction costs associated with the aforementioned currency headwinds.
However our Funding the Growth Program is as robust as it has ever been and as you know an integral part of our company culture.
So as we are able to take pricing as we go through the year to offset the sudden currency moves we expect to see our gross margin improve each quarter.
We are particularly pleased about the savings being generated from our Global Growth and Efficiency Program.
As we told you when we announced the program in the fourth quarter of 2012 we felt it would serve us well as we entered turbulent times and indeed it has.
We also said that the bulk of the savings would be reflected in overhead expenses and in the first quarter we delivered a 30 basis point reduction in overhead spending which allowed us to increase our advertising as a percent of net sales to support what continues to be a very robust pipeline of innovation around the world.
Our balance sheet is solid with strong cash generation as well as excellent working capital control.
So a good start to the year which bodes well for the remainder of 2014.
So let’s turn to the divisions starting with North America.
We are particularly pleased with the solid organic sales growth in North America.
This growth of 3.5% was against 5.5% in the year ago quarter which was the strongest quarter for 2013.
A full array of new products across categories contributed to the results and as referenced in the press release we grew our market shares in manual toothbrushes mouthwash dish liquids liquid cleaners and fabric conditioners.
Colgate Optic White toothpaste is continuing to grow share from 2013 behind new products strong marketing campaigns and more impactful claims.
In February we began to ship an uberpremium priced toothpaste line expanding on our original Optic White whitening toothpaste.
Optic White Platinum Whiten &amp; Protect a new product in the line adds stain prevention technology to the whitening power of the original Optic White formula to help maintain whiter teeth.
In addition we relaunched Optic White Dual Action as Optic White Platinum White &amp; Radiant which contains extra polishing brighteners to add shine.
An impactful media print and shopper campaign to support the Optic White Platinum launch emphasizes whiter teeth in just one day by using the entire Optic White regimen including the Colgate Optic White Toothbrush + Built-In Whitening Pen.
Along with these new toothpastes we introduced Colgate Optic White mouthwash with Whiteseal technology.
The new formula combines stain prevention with the whitening power of Colgate’s original Optic White Mouthwash along with a significantly enhanced taste profile.
The launch of Colgate Optic White Toothbrush + Built-In Whitening Pen which we told you about last quarter has been very well received.
In March it achieved an 8.1 share and has been driving almost the entire manual toothbrush category growth year-to-date and as you would expect we have continued strong commercial support planned for the remainder of the year.
Regimen approach has served us well with our Colgate Total franchise.
Colgate Total mouthwash launched in May of last year behind record retail support has been driving overall category growth.
Trial and repeat levels are outpacing other competitive launches contributing to an overall mouthwash share of over 6% on a year-to-date basis up from the year ago period.
And we have also reinvigorated the graphics on our Colgate Total toothpaste line and have increased our professional marketing efforts with dental office sampling and detailing aids as well as advertising in dental and scientific journals.
As I said our market share in dish liquid was up in the quarter.
Driving this in part was the launch of Palmolive Dish + Sink which helps eliminate odors to freshen the air around the sink as you do dishes.
A strong marketing campaign only began in April but we saw excellent results right after our launch.
As you know our business in the Hispanic market is very strong and a number of years ago we launched Suavitel Fabric Conditioner the leading brand in Mexico in the U.S.
In first quarter this year we launched a new variant Suavitel Fast Dry with a breakthrough patent-pending formula that softens clothes and contains moisture wicking polymers that allow fabric to quickly shed water so that clothes dry 30% faster.
This has contributed to an all-time high national fabric conditioner share of 17.5% in March with over 1% coming just from this new product.
More new product activity is expected for the third quarter of this year which you will hear about soon.
Turning now to Europe/South Pacific.
We are very pleased with the organic sales growth of 1.5% in this region strongest growth in five quarters.
Innovation played a key role in the results and from a macroeconomic standpoint we are cautiously optimistic.
While Southern Europe still remains a challenge it appears that Northern Europe is showing modest signs of recovery now market shares increased in many Oral Care categories up in toothpaste battery toothbrushes and electric toothbrushes.
We are very pleased with the launch of Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection plus Sugar Acid Neutralizer biggest innovation against cavities since the introduction of fluoride more than 50 years ago and we are off to a good start after only six weeks in market in Denmark we have achieved a 3.8 share after two weeks in Norway a 3.2 share and after two weeks in Portugal a full point.
In Australia our latest four-week share is 5.4%.
We will continue to rollout this product across the region.
We told you last quarter about the launch of Colgate Max White One Optic toothpaste.
This quarter we have re-launched our Colgate Max White One mouthwash with an advanced stain prevention system to seal out the stains and seal in the natural whiteness and as you would expect this is being supported by a full integrated marketing campaign in synergy with the toothpaste.
Also launching this quarter is Colgate Slim Soft Charcoal toothbrush first developed in Asia which has 17 times slimmer tip bristles with charcoal for better cleaning between the teeth and along the gum line.
An interesting opportunity for us in the personal care category is the entry into the kids’ body wash category where we currently have no offering.
This subcategory is growing around 8% outpacing the overall category growth of 2%.
And bundle to be launched in the second quarter uses playful graphics to appeal to children and a mild natural formula with a Pediatrician Approved claim to appeal to their parents.
A seasonal launch expected to provide additional distribution is Palmolive Sensacao do Brazil.
This line of shower gels seizes on Europeans passion for football and the resulting interest in Brazilian culture heightened around this summers World Cup combination of unique fragrances natural ingredients and attractive graphics should deliver heightened impact in store.
Our Home Care business in Europe is strong leading brands such as Ajax and Soupline.
Under the Ajax brand we are launching Ajax all Uage Gel one cleaner to clean your entire house.
The formula has a concentrated efficacy and the bottle has a versatile press and dosage cap.
Turning to Latin America momentum continues across the region with another quarter of double-digit organic growth consistent flow of innovation allowed us to maintain our strong leading shares in tooth paste and toothbrushes.
And our mouthwash market share was up half a point year-to-date behind successful launches such as Plax Tea Fresh and Plax 2 in 1 market shares increased as well in fabric conditioner hand dish and liquid cleaners.
In Brazil our year-to-date toothpaste share remained over 71%.
As you know this was one of the lead countries for our launch of Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection with Neutrazucar toothpaste.
Shipments started in October of last year and our 2014 share year-to-date is 2.2% with the most recent lead at 3%.
Our leading Brazilian toothbrush share reached a record 33.1% on a year-to-date basis fueled by good performance in our premium end of the business.
Our Brazilian bar soap business achieved a record market leading share of 26.5% on a year-to-date basis new products in both the Palmolive and Protex lines have helped achieve this result.
In Mexico we saw a standout performance in our underarm protection business with our year-to-date share increasing 30 basis points to 19.6% the highest in almost a decade.
We told you about the launch of Men’s Speed Stick Stress Defense deodorant last quarter and we have more innovation slated for the second quarter.
In fact new product activity is planned for the second quarter across categories throughout Latin America.
Building on the insight that many consumers think about toothpaste as taking care of their teeth and not the rest of the mouth we have launched a new integrated marketing campaign to support Colgate Total which explains its benefit of protecting all areas of the mouth to give 100% confidence.
In the whitening category we are launching Colgate Luminous White Advanced toothpaste with the benefit of three shades whiter teeth with the same whitening ingredient dentists use.
And of course we will continue the launch of Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection plus Sugar Acid Neutralizer toothpaste across the region.
In Personal Care we are launching Protex Omega 3 bar soaps liquid soaps and shower gels.
Its formula with moisturizers helps keep your family’s skin healthier while eliminating 99.9% of bacteria.
As well we will be introducing Lady Speed Stick Aclarado Perfecto plus Vitamin E deodorant.
Its formula with vitamin E and mother of pearl extract helps show your natural skin tone while blocking sweat.
And in the Home Care category we have taken an idea from a Palmolive launch in the U.S.
market.
In Latin America using the Axion equity for hand dishwashing liquid we launched Axion Good Bye Odors.
Residues from dishes and sponges can cause bad odors and this new product eliminates the bacteria that may cause these odors.
Turning now to Asia.
Organic sales growth in Asia continues to be robust increasing 7.5% in the quarter.
New products supported by an increase in advertising have driven the top line growth and market share gains.
Across the region we increased our market shares in manual toothbrushes mouthwash and shampoo.
In India our toothpaste market share is up 60 basis points to 53.8% on a year-to-date basis even in the face of heightened competition.
Our toothbrush shares there are up as well up 140 basis points to 44.5% year-to-date.
Strong communication and trade plans have helped drive these results.
In China we remain the market leader in toothpaste by a wide margin at over 34% year-to-date.
Our Chinese toothbrush shares increased as well up 70 basis points to over 26% year-to-date.
Malaysia was our lead market in Asia for the launch of Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection plus Sugar Acid Neutralizer toothpaste.
That new product introduced in February of this year as well as other premium bundles helped lift our toothpaste share 60 basis points to 73.4% on a year-to-date basis.
In the second quarter we will be rolling out into new markets some of the innovation that has already helped drive growth elsewhere in the region Colgate Total Charcoal Deep Clean toothpaste Colgate 360 Charcoal toothbrush and Colgate Slim Soft Dual Action toothbrush.
Africa/Eurasia.
Organic sales growth continues to be robust in this region.
As mentioned in the press release some of the strength came from Russia even in the face of all the turmoil in that country.
Our innovation in this region continues to drive growth as elsewhere.
In the toothpaste category innovation in Russia has helped us to maintain our market leading share of over 32% year-to-date.
Colgate Altai Herbs toothpaste was launched there recently.
Altai is a region of Russia known for its herbal remedies.
As a companion product we also launched Colgate Altai Herbs mouthwash which has driven our year-to-date mouthwash market share up almost 2 full points to 27.6%.
Our shower gel market share across this region is up over a point and a half year-to-date.
In Russia and Turkey where we launched Palmolive Gourmet Spa our year-to-date market shares are up 2 and 3.6 points respectively to 23.1% and 39.1%.
You may recall this line of shower gels is highly experiential with chocolate vanilla and strawberry fragrances.
In South Africa Palmolive Thermal Spa Skin Renewal shower gel has contributed to a 3 point share increase to 27.1% on a year-to-date basis.
Our innovation continues in the second quarter.
In toothpaste we will be launching Colgate Optic White Instant with optical brighteners for a whiter smile and instantly visible whiter teeth.
I mentioned earlier the launch of Colgate Altai Herbs toothpaste and mouthwash in Russia where the Altai region is well known for its herbal ingredients.
Capitalizing on the success of this launch we will be launching Palmolive Altai Herbs bar soap liquid hand soap and shower gel.
This mini line of body cleansing is inspired by Altai authentic recipes and its formulas contain natural extracts of herbs to revive body and spirit.
Also in Russia in the underarm category we will be launching Lady Speed Stick Altai Herbs Freshness an antiperspirant in sprays sticks and roll-ons that give your skin a superior feeling of natural purity and long-lasting freshness to keep you confident and attractive.
Hill’s.
We are very pleased with the continued solid results in our Hill’s business both domestically and overseas.
An important driver here in the U.S.
as you know has been the launch of Hill’s Ideal Balance and that continues to meet with success.
Consumption at the super stores is strong and growing up 50% year to date over the prior year and has been helped by a wide array of innovation in the naturals category.
In February we launched 11 new dry variants nine wet and three treats in both dog and cat.
For dogs Ideal Balance Slim and Healthy and Ideal Balance Active for cats Ideal Balance Indoors Ideal Balance Hairball and Ideal Balance Slim and Healthy.
To support this innovation this quarter we will continue with not only media but in-store support in the superstores with impactful pallet displays as well as coupons offered by brand ambassadors and nutritional consultants.
Our Hill’s Science Diet business is strong as well.
An interesting new marketing campaign is being implemented as we speak at PetSmart Paws for Health.
Based on the shopper insight that pet parents know they don’t take their pets to the vet as often as they should but it is important to them to do what they can to ensure the pet has a longer healthier life.
In-store consultants educate pet parents about the importance of preventative care for their pet and drive awareness and provide trial sizes of Hill’s Science Diet products in the LifeCare product grouping.
Our Hill’s Prescription Diet business is also doing well.
We have told you about our Hill’s Prescription Diet Metabolic for weight control.
That has been met with terrific acceptance.
Our Hill’s Prescription Diet business is also doing well.
We have told you about our Hill’s Prescription Diet Metabolic for weight control.
We will continue the momentum on the business with in-clinic activities testimonial campaigns to drive vet endorsement and sampling and new client starter kits As you know the science behind our weight control is uniquely innovative.
As mentioned above we have leveraged it with our Ideal Balance line and have launched weight control products in the Science Diet line as well.
And our robust new product program will continue throughout the year.
We will be launching Hill’s Ideal Balance throughout Europe where the naturals category is just beginning.
Another exciting innovation we referenced in our press release is Hill’s Prescription Diet Stews a breakthrough in wet food technology.
The proprietary processing technique and natural ingredients produce a therapeutic food for dogs and cats with delicious appearance and superior efficacy.
So in summary we are very pleased with the way 2014 has started out.
The momentum we saw as we exited 2013 has continued in all regions of the world.
Our new product pipeline is full across all categories and our ongoing savings programs as well as our Global Growth and Efficiency Program are providing funds to support that robust innovation.
And as we implement our Global Growth and Efficiency Program our people are becoming even more focused on winning on the ground each and every day.
We look forward to sharing our progress with you as we go forward throughout the year.
And now Nancy I would like to turn the call over to you to start the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll go first to Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
Hey Dara.
So first just a clarification Bina mentioned you expected gross margin improvement each quarter this year.
Are you still expecting 75 to 125 basis points for the full year and then the real question is your toothpaste and toothbrush market share momentum looks like it’s slow this quarter.
The toothpaste year-over-year share change was the worst we’ve seen recently.
So I was just hoping for more detail on what’s driving that performance particularly which geographies and your view on if the share losses will continue going forward or if that’s more temporary factors in Q1? Okay Dara.
Let me -- before I get to the gross margin let me put the gross margin position in sort of a broader context and underscore a couple of the points that Bina has already made.
First we are very pleased with the first quarter’s topline performance and we would reaffirm our target range of organic growth for the year at between 5% and 7%.
We think that is going to be a very strong range particularly as our categories remain range bound in Europe growing at between 1% and 2% and similarly so in North America.
And in our emerging markets we see category growth rates slowing slightly from 6% to 8% range previously to now 5% to 7%.
And the things we think will continue to drive that organic rate of growth are in innovation and of course the advertising which was up absolutely and as a percent of sales this quarter and we expect it to be up absolutely and as a percentage to sales for the year.
Now very importantly of course Dara as you correctly point out is the gross margin and what our expectations are for gross margin during the year.
We are still comfortable with the gross margin expansion of between 75 and 125 basis points.
But obviously given recent foreign exchange volatility which we have to react to and our we would say that our margin expansion will be at the lower end of that range more in a 70 to 100 basis points band.
Our funding of the growth program remains strong and I think some were little bit questioning our ability to take pricing in Latin America in the fourth quarter.
And I think you see in the first quarter what is the usual sequence in these events which is there is a lead lag between the foreign exchange impact particularly when it is as precipitates as we saw in this first quarter and you will see pricing continue across the balance of the year.
And all of that led us to reiterate our EPS guidance of 4% to 5% on a dollar basis for this year or double digit currency neutral.
And I’m reading some of the earlier notes this morning.
Let me just walk through that reiteration.
I think most of you will remember that in our release at the end of January when we announced our fourth quarter results we expressed growth of EPS in line with the consensus of external analysts’ estimates at that time and then in February February 18th to be price we made our disclosure and announcement on Venezuela and indicated from that proposition that the Venezuela impact would be between $0.11 and $0.14 to EPS on the year with the first quarter at $0.03 to $0.04.
And then of course today we disclosed that the first quarter was $0.03 and we expect the rate going forward to be at the same $0.03 per quarter $0.12 on the year consistent with the prior range and at that 4% to 5% a dollar and double-digit currency neutral rate.
To come to market share a couple of comments on toothpaste.
First of all the shares that we talk about are dollar weighted that’s the way we collect the data and aggregate it.
And in Venezuela we have an extremely elevated market share.
We are still trying to find the three Venezuelans that don’t brush with our toothpaste.
So given the currency moves in Venezuela about a third of the share decline that you highlighted the 1.3 points is simply mathematical to do without dollar weighting.
The other two geographies of an operating nature are the U.S.
and Mexico as we have said before and we said that our innovation and some adjustments to our marketing program to meet the competitive promotional activity we saw in both of those markets would be taken and they have been taken.
And I think in the U.S.
some of you had already commented on the more recent consumption and share data that the toothpaste progress for Colgate is good.
We continue to see that in the near-term weekly data and we expect that to continue going forward.
Same actions have been taken in Mexico and we expect to saying forward progress to strengthen our share in the 80 range.
And in addition in Mexico we have just this month introduced the superior anti-cavity toothpaste which has been highlighted has done very well everywhere we had launched it.
Toothbrushes are affected by the same Venezuela calculation.
Indeed the modest 30 basis points decline you highlighted there is entirely driven by the Venezuela mathematical calculation.
All of our divisions are either flat to up in market share with the exception of Africa Eurasia where we are responding to in South Africa and Russia specifically local market activity which we fully expect to be reversed over time.
So no we do not expect or plan for those share positions to continue as you laid them out.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll go next to Steve Powers with UBS.
Hi Ian.
Thanks.
Hi Steve.
I guess it was another solid quarter as you say of organic growth 6.5% overall and especially 10% in the emerging markets.
How do you think about that relative to some of the outsized inflation that we are seeing in certain markets especially in Latin America? If you agree with that characterization especially in Argentina Venezuela for example how do you estimate that is adding to your organic growth or conversely do you believe it’s really not that additive given the degree of volume and mix trade-offs in those same markets? Thanks.
Yes.
I would say if you look at the underpinning volume in Latin America for example we view that as very healthy.
When you talk about outsized inflation in Venezuela remember that is true from a macro point of view but bylaw in Venezuela we are extremely restricted on availability to take pricing across most of our business.
So I think we are very pleased with the progress.
We view it to be real substantive and we see it continuing.
We’ll move to the next question with Wendy Nicholson with Citi.
Hi good morning.
I don’t want to be a dead horse on this pricing in Latin America thing but that’s my question too.
And the question is historically when there has been currency question in Latin America the pricing you could able to take on an annual basis I get that there is a [lie] (ph) but on an annual basis it’s pretty much close to a 1 offset.
And my question is if you look at the 6% pricing you got in the first quarter versus the 16% currency headwind how much of that is Venezuela how much of that is just timing? I mean if we are going to see let’s call it in mid-teems currency headwind in Latin America can you take anywhere close to that pricing ex-Venezuela because I think everybody is just nervous that maybe the competitive dynamic is preventive you from taking as much pricing? If you can answer that that would be great.
Okay.
Well the answer is no it’s not driven by competitors.
As I said when we posted just over 2% pricing in the fourth quarter I think that question was raised that you now limited in terms of your ability to take pricing.
And the answer is no we are not.
And I think the first quarter demonstrated that in quite a healthy way remembering we are not able in the first quarter given the move of some of the exchanges to take the pricing as quickly as the exchange takes the cost up for transaction reasons.
And in Venezuela you frankly have to take Venezuela out of the equation because for the majority of that business we are unable bylaw to take pricing.
But we have demonstrated in the past and I think with Venezuela to one side as far as the rest of Latin America is concerned we have demonstrated an ability to price to offset the foreign exchange.
Indeed in the more recent term the Brazilian exchange is turn a we bit positive but our plan would be as it has been in the past to be able to offset the transaction impact to foreign exchange with the pricing and funding the growth.
We’ll move to the next question from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Actually again I am sorry to get you around this issue.
I'm looking at Asia and Eurasia where the currency impact substantially has been certainly we were the expecting and I guess there was deterioration towards the end of the quarter.
Do you expect to be able to get pricing in those markets as you move through the year? The answer is yes the answer is yes.
We will be able to take the pricing in those markets.
One has to say exactly as you said Caroline that the precipitous make sure of the currency moves in some of those geographies.
I come back to everyone’s estimation of the year I'm not sure I saw anybody planning on the Crimea and the impact of Crimea on the Russian Ruble.
So some of those moves were really quite precipitous but we have the capability to take pricing.
We had done so in some geographies already and we have plans and indeed are right now taking pricing in some of those markets to address the headwind of transaction.
So we continue to have pricing capability.
There is just a natural lead lag in terms of how quickly you can practically respond particularly when the foreign exchange has moved so quickly.
And I think in the world that we are in our ability to plan for gross margin expansion are between 75 and 100 basis points a test to that capability.
We'll take the next question from Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
Hi thanks.
Hi Chris.
Hi Ian.
I guess I wanted to ask you about the slowdown you just cited in developing in emerging market and a point I guess is not a huge deal considering what we've seen elsewhere.
But can you talk a little bit about is that isolated to any specific geographies and what do you think is driving that specifically besides maybe the obvious sort of macro situation and maybe just that.
And then also why do you think you can gain more share than you have been and sustain the top-line growth rate in the face of the slower market relative to say what your thought couple of quarters ago? Yes I guess Chris.
We're talking about fine differences here.
We wanted to indicate that indeed we have seen a little bit of a slowdown.
Other comments I have read from others suggest sharper than we have seen certainly in our businesses.
I think it traces to the macros finally.
In these cases there is nothing untoward that we have seen so far in terms of consumer behavior.
And I think our 5 to 7 range fits very nicely even with that slowdown.
So I don't think it puts any more pressure on our desire need or ability to build market share.
And we’ll move next to John Faucher with J.P.
Morgan.
Thank you.
In looking at your sort of how reported top-line growth will track over the course of the year and given the seasonality of the business it's a little tough given the first quarter performance to get to the low end of the range from a gross margin standpoint.
So can you walk us through sort of sequentially how we should think about just progressing through the year and sort of what the big changes are from Q1 to the balance of the year.
Are there just efficacy from the additional pricing what have you? Thanks.
Okay.
I can’t resist John.
I thought you were one that was questioning whether we could deliver the gross margin expansion.
Well I think -- let me say so you can come back to me at the end.
Let me start with the traditional roll forward just that we have that as a starting point and then I will try and answer your question from there.
Obviously it's flat so the star point was the same 58.6 as it is this year.
We picked up half a point from pricing.
We picked up 1.4 from our funding the growth and a little bit of restructuring material prices was a headwind of 2 a large part of that as we have already discussed was transaction.
There was a modest 10 bps from other leading us to the 58.6.
So I would say the three main buckets of progress for the year quite obviously are pricing where we expect to get more pricing and therefore more contribution to the gross profit funding the growth along with a little bit from restructuring and you know that our funding the growth tends to build over the year.
And that would be the second major aspect of building our gross margin.
And by talking about 75 to 100 all I was trying to do was to frame coming off the high-end of the range we are not suggesting a 75 increase in gross margin.
We'll take the next question from Olivia Tong with Bank of America Merril Lynch.
Thank you I appreciate it.
One quick question on housekeeping.
Is it fair to assume the net interest expense will be similar to Q1 the Q1 rate going forward or whether any anomalies caught this quarter? And then on Hill's I noticed that the margin was up for the first time in the last five quarters.
And in the press release you did state a number of puts and takes but one of them was lower ad spends.
So was is just a function of comping against how you spend in a year ago as she prepped for the new line or if there shift in timing of spending or do you think there are just not a need to spend as much behind pet as you did before.
And if that’s the case the change -- does the changing of hands for IMs change your thought process in any way on that? Thank you.
Changing of course I guess who I am.
But on your housekeeping question on net interest the net interest expense we think we'll go up on the year.
We'll probably be in the 35 to 40 range for the year largely due to changes in our capital structure as we have taken on some longer term debt at very attractive rates planning ahead to world where rates are likely to increase.
So yes but plan fully as part of readjusting our capital structure.
Hill's is timing.
Bina talked about some of the innovation on the Hill's business and the spending we'll readjust.
First quarter was strong last year because the timing of the innovation was earlier.
So now we're very committed to our Hill's innovation flow which is very strong and frankly doing very well in market.
We'll move next to Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
Hi guys.
So just a quick clarification and then a core question.
The clarification is want to give you the opportunity of selling Venezuela to the side.
And just if you could tell us what volume and organic growth would have been in Latin America ex-Venezuela? And then the other question so you say the EPS growth of 4% to 5%.
In fact I think the same has since February at least for the year.
Is it still above consensus? And I know you guys and the background of your team does a really good job of taking of our models and looking at it.
And I'm trying to understand if you guys have a perspective on where you think consensus is too high is it just currencies or are there other things that you would like to be pointed to? Yeah well thanks for the opportunity to separate LatAm growth from Venezuela.
But I shall politely decline that.
We don't break it out in that way.
I would say that we think if you think about where Venezuela was three four years ago as you well know it is substantially smaller portion of our corporation than it was then.
And the Latin American growth we think is very very strong overall.
In terms of the second point Ali.
Yes you're right the 4% to 5% as we try to reemphasize at the beginning of the call has been where we have been.
And there is nothing in that reiteration of guidance for the year that reflects anything other than foreign exchange and I would clarify and say that is the foreign exchange that analyst reacted to in January of the year with the Venezuela change which by the way I think makes our Venezuelan reporting more conservative than some who has stayed at the 630 rate.
And the -- it remains double-digits in terms of the EPS growth in local currency terms and in fact for the year looking forward after Venezuela we see the currency impact for the year at around 5% which was pretty much where we had it before hand.
So there is no incremental currency it nearly reflects actions taken through February of this year.
So it is entirely currency related.
There is nothing else.
The next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Hey good morning.
Hey how are you? I'm good.
So the cash balance is massive right.
It's also like two equity done historically.
Are you guys -- what’s the plan about the cash because certainly you don't need your working capitals getting better.
There is super cash generated I know you talked about rates going up and locking some fixed rate debt.
But is there a use for all that cash.
And then second part of the question is well that in the same part of same question but the second question is there a plan or way to get Venezuela profitable again.
I know I lost money this quarter but is there anything you could do either structurally or strategically to get that turn positive again.
Thanks.
Yes.
The cash balance entirely timing entirely timing.
It’s related to when we took the debt.
It will be washed out as we go through the year debt and cash will get back in balance.
Net debt will end up in the same place.
So nothing strategic nearly timing.
With Venezuela it is as you say modestly it was very modest negative for Venezuela in the first quarter.
And obviously we are in very constructive dialog with the government of this time about the need for relaxation of the pricing laws and for some pricing in order to make business in Venezuela profitable again.
And we are hopeful that those discussions will lead to a productive outcome and that outcome of course which has been our usual model and the rest of Latin America allows one to offset the gross margin pressure and see that translate through on the bottom line.
So those are the issues.
You know of course that the first quarter was hit particularly by the historical one-time hit and that will come out across the balance of the year anyway.
So we’ll be in a better position than we were in the first quarter but the step change would be driven by pricing.
The next question comes from Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Good morning thanks.
Hey.
How are you? The question on or the comment on the sugar.
I always get the name wrong but the cavity protection toothpaste that you are rolling out.
The comment that you’re moving more throughout Europe and maybe the Australia are there plan to meet from the near term to go to U.K.
Germany France some of the bigger countries it may in next quarter to.
And is it contributing to the overall European growth at this point or is it still really too small? To answer the last part of the -- actually you don’t have to get the name right Bill you just have to buy it.
I get you.
Yeah.
That sort of trouble.
In terms o Europe it is too early.
We can say that in countries like Brazil Turkey Australia as Bina said that it is added to share nicely.
We are expanding in Mexico as we’ve said.
You will see continued expansion across Europe and some of the other emerging markets you could expect to cross the balance of the year.
So we’ll be moving quite broadly with this product the reaction seems so far quite positive.
We’ll take the next question from Michael Steib with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
My question relates to raw material cost.
I noticed that in most regions there were essentially a headwind to margins in the quarter except in Europe where there were tailwind.
I wonder is that all due to currencies or there other differences for example in the portfolio compensation as well.
And then related to that do you expect a similar headwind from raw material cost for the remainder of the year? Well let me react to both.
I would say what we saw in the first quarter was indeed largely driven by foreign exchange which is why we saw such a positive progress in Europe.
I think training raw materials overall we’re expecting for the year raw and packing materials to increase by between 1% and 2% for the year.
That’s raw and packing for the year.
And as I have mentioned earlier our ability to deliver the gross margin expansion that we are planning is going to be driven by pricing which we have already to a certain extent and we’ll deliver going forward t5o offset that foreign exchange impact on raw and packing material.
We’ll look at next question.
It comes from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
Hello.
Good morning everyone.
I had a couple of questions one on the restructuring.
It seems like it was a big chunk this first quarter about 40% of what you plan for the year.
Does it mean that you are taking it faster pace and originally plan in order to navigate this issue of a currency.
And the other question has to do with Hill’s.
Certainly very good performance to what extent that has to do with the changes in planogram that (indiscernible) did or shall we continue seeing that at least for another quarter where we’re going to see a strong growth from Hill’s.
Thank you.
Thanks Javier.
No there’s nothing particular about restructuring in terms of -- it's just timing our full year full program ranges remain the same both at the cost and the benefit and we don’t manhandle the restructuring to try and address foreign exchange issues.
I think the point we made when we announced it was it would simply give us some agility and flexibility knowing that given the volatility of foreign exchanges and therefore cost quarters might be a little bit lumpy.
Indeed I’m here which you are correct have here in the US.
We had some quite meaningful planograms resets which have been positive which underpin the increase that Bina talked about a little bit earlier.
And we continue to feel good about seeing our Hill’s business go forward mid -single digits organic as we have spoken before.
And the reason selling the planogram reset is good but we’ll get to the planogram reset is the quality of the innovation and trial generation that you can create for that innovation.
And as we have said before we think we have a very rich innovation pipeline now which is moving to the market.
And we’ll move to Alec Patterson with AGI.
Good morning.
Hey Alec.
Hi.
So just quickly on the 75 and 100 basis points.
I think I am crystallizing this into it’s predominantly moved to lower end because of currency.
In other words the other component pricing and you have been planning all along.
Commodity costs that are basically dollar commodity base were on pack.
And then anything from funding the growth productivity haven’t changed.
Correct.
And we’ll take our final question from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Hey good morning folks.
Hey Jason.
Thank you for allowing the question.
Two quick ones.
First a quick housekeeping question.
Can you quantify how much the advanced customer shipments in Japan contribute to that growth this quarter? And then other question is back here to home North America we’ve been seen solid growth both on the measure data as well as clearly into reporter results today.
Well we sliced and diced the measure data around 70% of gross been coming for mouthwash.
Market share up year-on -year but running stagnant to kind of flat line sequentially at 6.
Two months from now you’ll start rolling over that 7% share you got on the initial search trial building.
So how should we think about growth on a go forward? What are the initiatives that can maybe get mouthwash and other like higher or that can kick some of the categories into higher growth notes to drive more contribution for them? Thanks Jason.
On mouthwash as you know I talked about the toothpaste change in momentum.
Obviously the toothbrush business share up over 41 is terrific.
That of courses is the second largest category in oral care.
Mouthwash we are pleased where we are.
Two things will continue to grow our business in mouthwash.
Number one innovation and the variants that come with that innovation which we have seen we will continue to see.
The second is interesting in the U.S.
is always packaging sizes in terms of retail environments.
And consumer purchasing habits you will see more of that as the year unfolds.
And most importantly trial-generating devices we know the repeat rate of the businesses is high.
We know that it takes over two years to build your trial curve and we will continue to be putting money behind that.
So we have a great product.
We can add to the product and we’ll be focusing on building trial.
In terms of Japan -- no we don’t breakout at the country level.
Suffice to say on Japan I think it was Ali on the last call was questioning the trajectory of that business.
We’ve had some folk in Japan only a couple of weeks ago.
We’re going through a thorough review of that business and there is confidence I would express that notwithstanding the pull forward that we have our Japanese business now for Hills on a solid footing and a positive underlying trajectory and we will see that in the coming quarters.
And that does conclude today’s question-and-answer session.
I’d like to turn the conference back to the speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Nancy.
Well thanks all of you for your interest in the company and your questions.
And thank you to the Colgate world for delivering the results that allow the questions.
That does conclude today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Company Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded and is being simulcast live at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
Today's conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of the company's views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on the company's website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement on Forward-looking Statements.
This conference call will also include a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures which differ from the company's results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
The company will discuss organic sales growth which is not net sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and divestitures.
The company will also discuss gross profit gross profit margin SG&amp;A as a percent of net sales operating profit operating profit margin net income and earnings per share on a diluted basis excluding the impact of these items described in the press release.
A full reconciliation with the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the press release and is posted in the For Investors section of the company's website at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
Just as a reminder there will be a slight delay before the question-and-answer session begins due to the web simulcast.
Now for the opening remarks I'd like to turn the call over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Bina Thompson.
Please go ahead Bina.
Thank you Angela.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are Ian Cook President Chairman and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller; and Elaine Paik Treasurer.
We're happy to report another quarter of good organic sales growth with every division participating.
Consistent with other companies in our industry we are facing increased macroeconomic pressure in certain areas of the world.
Category growth has slowed somewhat in geographies such as Asia a factor which we actually referenced last quarter.
On the other hand we see some encouraging signs of slow recovery in some European markets.
Competition remains healthy and promotional battles continue.
However our new product pipeline is as full as ever and our commercial investment behind our launches has increased worldwide a careful balance between media spending and in-store activity and this has resulted in solid market shares many categories and geographies and showing positive trends in the most recent periods.
Our Global Growth and Efficiency Program is on track and savings from that are supplementing our ongoing Funding the Growth initiatives which are as healthy as ever.
Both of these contributed to our 20 basis point increase in gross margin.
Offsetting these savings were increases in raw and packaging material costs as well as continued foreign currency transaction pressure.
Our 3 business service centers around the world are now up and running in Warsaw Mexico City and Mumbai.
The hubbing activities are complete in Europe and are well underway elsewhere in the world which will make us even more nimble and effective winning on the ground.
And of course our balance sheet is strong and cash generation is solid.
So let's turn to the divisions starting with North America.
Organic sales growth in North America was modest.
The volume growth of 2.5% was of course on top of the very robust increase in the year-ago quarter of 6% reflecting the initial launch of Colgate Total Mouthwash.
We have an exciting innovation launching as we speak which I'll discuss in a moment.
Pleasingly versus the second quarter of 2013 our 2014 second quarter shares increased in toothpaste toothbrushes deodorants body wash and fabric conditioners and our mouthwash shares have steadied at about 6.5%.
Trial and repeat numbers for Colgate Total Mouthwash are above previous recent competitive launches and the product has been instrumental in driving overall category growth.
Our recent launch of Suavitel Fast Dry fabric conditioner has also met with success.
Our quarterly national share is at a record 18.6% up 170 basis points versus the second quarter of 2013.
And this is a product which is largely sold in Hispanic markets where it holds a 36.2% share on a year-to-date basis fast closing the gap between us and the leading competitor.
So looking ahead our latest toothpaste innovation here in the U.S.
is Colgate enamel health toothpaste.
The enamel strengthening segment is the fastest-growing in the toothpaste category with 54% of consumers concerned about enamel.
This new product replenishes natural calcium and other minerals back into weakened enamel filling in rough spots while at the same time polishing the enamel surface so germs are less likely to stick on the teeth.
The formula has an active fluoride system along with gentle on enamel silica and the product comes in 2 variance whitening and sensitivity relief.
In addition the impact for packaging is interactive with a touch-and-feel demo showing acid soft in rough enamel and healthy smooth enamel.
So as you would imagine we have a very robust integrated marketing campaign planned including television print public relations professional digital social mobile and in-store activities.
Turning to Europe/South Pacific.
We're very encouraged with our progress in Europe and are cautiously optimistic that some of the macroeconomic headwinds we have been facing are beginning to die down.
Our organic sales growth of 2.5% reflects the balance between volume and price where we have had strong promotional activities across the region to support new product launches.
And this has paid off in terms of market share.
Our Oral Care shares are strong across the category and is showing good momentum in toothpaste.
Our year-to-date market share is at 35.2% up 70 basis points from the year-ago period with the most recent share at 35.4%.
And of particular note is the U.K.
where despite an ongoing competitive battle our year-to-date share is just shy of 50% up a full point with the most recent lead over 51% a record high.
In manual toothbrushes our year-to-date regional share is up 90 basis points to 23.5% with the most recent lead at 24% consolidating our #1 position.
And this was in part fueled by excellent progress in the U.K.
where we've achieved a record 37.5% share year-to-date.
And in mouthwash our share is up 10 basis points to 16.4% on a year-to-date basis with the most recent lead at 16.9%.
We're very excited about the launch of Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection with Sugar Acid Neutralizer across Europe and the South Pacific.
First quarter launches in Australia and Norway have achieved 3.7% and 3.5% shares respectively in the most recent period.
We've only just launched in the U.K.
where as I mentioned we are reaching record market share levels and we'll introduce the product across the Rest of Europe in the balance of the year.
In Germany where our share is up 140 basis points to 41.2% on a year-to-date basis we've launched it under the elmex brand.
More new products are planned for the second half of this year as well.
We'll continue the rollout of Colgate Max White One Optic.
Whitening is the second-biggest segment in toothpaste in Europe and we hold the #1 position.
Similarly in manual toothbrushes we will continue the rollout of Colgate Slim Soft Charcoal toothbrush a product which as you know was developed in Asia but is met with great success in other parts of the world.
And innovation in the mouthwash category is Colgate Plax Deep Clean mouthwash which provides a deep effective clean even in hard-to-reach areas.
The product contains 2 natural ingredients eucalyptol and propolis that are well known to the consumer.
Eucalyptus is known for cooling and antibacterial properties and propolis for its protective properties.
Turning then to Latin America.
We're very pleased with the continued strong organic sales growth in this region.
This growth was broadly based.
One exception was Brazil where our consumers were glued to their televisions during the World Cup and not spending time in stores a temporary condition which we expect should reverse itself in the second half of this year.
Market shares continue to climb.
In the press release we cited record toothpaste shares in a number of countries.
Our year-to-date manual toothbrush shares also achieved record highs in Brazil Chile Peru Puerto Rico and Uruguay.
In Brazil Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection with Sugar Acid Neutralizer toothpaste has achieved a 2.3% share year-to-date lifting our overall share to a record 71.9%.
In Mexico our toothpaste share has been over 80% for the last 3 months and while we don't have readings yet in national Nielsen shares Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection with Sugar Acid Neutralizer toothpaste in Mexico has registered a 3 point share in ScanTrack.
And as in other regions around the world the launch of Colgate Slim Soft toothbrush has met with success in Latin America.
In Brazil our share is up 80 basis points to 32.8% year-to-date on the strength of both Colgate 360º and Colgate Slim Soft both of which are superpremium priced helping to increase margins.
In Mexico our manual toothbrush leadership share climbed to a record 44.9% in the most recent period.
And our mouthwash share across the region is up 30 basis points to 36.3% while our principal competitor is down almost a full point to 38.8%.
In the Personal Care category we've increased our underarm share in Mexico as a result of new products such as Men's and Lady Speed Stick stress.
We're now the leader in bar soaps across Latin America with Protex and Palmolive holding the #1 and 2 positions respectively.
And in fabric conditioners our regional share is up over 2 points to 50.8% year-to-date with the most recent lead at 51%.
And more innovation is planned for the second half.
During the third quarter we will be launching Colgate Total Professional Breath Health toothpaste.
Dentists advise their patients that bad breath can be caused not just by food odors but also by the accumulation of bacteria in the mouth.
This breath-freshening toothpaste formula with breakthrough neutral odor technology is scientifically proven to fight and neutralize bad breath-causing bacteria.
Next month we are introducing Colgate Luminous White Instant toothpaste.
Its exclusive formula with optic brighteners activates while you brush for a visibly whiter smile instantly.
And in the Personal Care category this month we're launching Lady Speed Stick Aclarado Perfecto with Vitamin E.
Its formula was with Vitamin E and pearl extract was perceived in a consumer test to help restore the skin's natural tone while also providing sweat protection for up to 48 hours.
Turning then to Asia.
While organic sales growth in this region slowed from the first quarter pace this quarter was compared to the strongest quarter of last year which saw organic sales growth at a very strong 13%.
Macroeconomic factors in China affected our results and we told you on our last call about some categories slowing and in fact that did happen.
However as referenced in the press release we continued to see strong growth in other countries in the region such as India and innovation continues to help drive market share increases.
In toothpaste our market share in India is up 70 basis points on a year-to-date basis to 54.8% with the most recent period at 55.1% and this in the face of recent competitive entries.
The revitalization of Colgate Active Salt a toothpaste with a unique salt formula that gives deep clean feeling and helps fight germs for strong teeth and healthy gums helps drive these results.
In Malaysia our share increased 50 basis points to 73.5% year-to-date with the most recent lead at 74.5%.
This was our first Asian market to launch Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection with Sugar Acid Neutralizer toothpaste.
And in just 6 months it's achieved almost a 4% share of the market.
Our toothbrush share across the division is up to 30.6% year-to-date fueled by increases in India Thailand Philippines Malaysia Singapore and Taiwan.
In India new product such as Colgate Super Flexi have resulted in an increase of 240 basis points to 43.5% year-to-date with the most recent lead at 43.7%.
Our mouthwash business is solid as well with a regional share year-to-date of 21.8% up 110 basis points.
Colgate Plax Jasmine Tea a mouthwash which provides long-lasting fresh breath with a pleasant jasmine tea flavor has contributed to very good results in Thailand and the Philippines where total mouthwash shares are up year-over-year 170 basis points and 380 basis points respectively.
Colgate Plax Herbal Salt mouthwash which was launched in Malaysia and Singapore and contributed 80 basis points and 250 basis points respectively in the initial lead will launch in India as Colgate Plax Active Salt during the fourth quarter.
As you may know the Indian consumer habit is to rinse one's mouth with salt water so this innovation should resonate well in this market.
Of course more innovation is planned for the second half of this year.
We will continue to roll out Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection with Sugar Acid Neutralizer toothpaste.
In China we'll be launching Colgate Tea health toothpaste which provides refreshing breath with a pleasant longjing tea flavor.
Longjing is a popular and premium type of tea in China which is associated with multiple types of benefits including healthy teeth and refreshing breath.
We will also be launching the Colgate HT1 toothbrush with 7-way cleaning with the following benefits: Cleans teeth surface removes bacteria is gentles on gums cleans in between the teeth absorbs brushing pressure and is easy to maneuver.
And in Thailand we will be launching Colgate Plax Tartar Control mouthwash an exciting addition to our strong mouthwash portfolio in that country.
This mouthwash provides the dual benefit of tartar control and breath freshening all at once.
Turning then to Africa/Eurasia.
We're encouraged with the continued solid organic sales growth in this region.
Of particular note was Russia where despite an uncertain political and macroeconomic environment new products such as Colgate Altai Herbs toothpaste Colgate Total interdental toothpaste and Colgate Optic White Instant toothpaste helped drive strong growth.
Toothpaste and toothbrush shares remained solid across the region.
Innovation in the mouthwash category has delivered good share results.
In Russia we told you last quarter about Colgate Altai Herbs mouthwash which contains an ingredient well known to the local consumer a comparison product -- companion product to the previously mentioned toothpaste.
Our mouthwash share in Russia is up year-to-date 170 basis points to 27.5%.
In Turkey our newly launched Colgate Plax Green mouthwash has resulted in a market share increase of 120 basis points to 20.5% year-to-date.
And we're also very pleased with the continued success in our shower gel business across the region where we hold a leadership position of 22% up almost 2 full point’s year-over-year.
Palmolive Gourmet Spa has driven increases of 220 basis points and 400 basis points in Russia and Turkey respectively.
And the recent launch of Palmolive Thermal Skin Renewal resulted in an increase of 5 points in South Africa.
More innovation is planned.
In the Eurasian markets we are introducing Colgate Total Pro Whitening toothpaste.
And here as elsewhere the premium price whitening segment is very important to the overall toothpaste category.
In Russia consumers believe in the power of natural ingredients and traditional recipes to improve oral health.
Accordingly we're launching the Colgate Natural Extracts toothbrush containing pine tree bristles with premium differentiated and impactful packaging designed to stand out on shelf.
As I mentioned earlier our Palmolive Gourmet Spa line of shower gels has been very successful and we hope to build on that success with 2 new variants to be added to the existing chocolate vanilla and strawberry.
The new creamy coffee and peach sorbet variants are infused with natural extracts and their creamy formulas smooths the skin.
As you would expect we will have a very strong integrated marketing campaign to support this launch.
Then turning to Hill's.
Hill's business continues to be solid.
General softness in the pet superstores has been affecting us and others as well here in the U.S.
However we're encouraged by our continued stream of innovation which we expect to drive growth going forward.
Our rollout of Hill's Ideal Balance continues to meet with success.
Here in the U.S.
our share of the naturals category continues to grow.
And in addition to the regular Ideal Balance we launched Ideal Balance Slim &amp; Healthy in the second quarter for both dogs and cats.
Support activities included features and coupon brochure handouts brand ambassador coupons and nutritional consultant coupons.
In Europe we launched in the U.K.
and Germany in April and May respectively.
And so far we've seen very good trade acceptance with listing in the major accounts supported by promotional activities as well as secondary placements.
In the store we activated with branded gondola ends demonstrators in key accounts and indoor and outdoor posters and point-of-sale materials.
And in addition we featured the product at consumer pet shows and through testimonial campaigns.
On the therapeutic side of the business our 2013 launch of Prescription Diet metabolic continues to do well both here and abroad.
In the U.S.
our sales are exceeding our expectations.
Our commercial support includes before and after imagery along with videos online.
And this quarter we've globally launched an antioxidant upgrade to the product.
In greater Europe we've widened the gap between our nearest competitor from 2 points to 8 establishing a clear leadership share of 47% year-to-date in the weight category.
Another important therapeutic category is feline urinary a category where we were underrepresented until the launch of Prescription Diet c/d.
New platforms such as efficacy stress ocean fish and stew were added in the second quarter here in the U.S.
all supported with in-clinic sampling and messaging at professional conferences.
Similar activities in Europe have resulted in a 130 basis point increase in our share of the category to almost 30% year-to-date.
Looking forward this quarter we will continue the rollout of Ideal Balance Slim &amp; Healthy and Science Diet Perfect Weight our new wellness weight-loss products in markets outside the U.S.
And for the fourth quarter we have more exciting news which we will share with you soon.
So in summary we're pleased that we continue to drive organic sales around the world with good bottom line growth.
Our new product pipeline is as full as ever and our market shares are healthy and growing in many regions.
Colgate people everywhere are working hard to keep us winning on the ground.
We look forward to sharing our results with you as we go forward through the balance of the year.
And now before with turn it over to Q&amp;A Ian would like to make a few remarks.
Ian? Thanks Bina.
Many of you may remember that on the first quarter call as we began the Q&amp;A I took the time to make some preliminary remarks on the shape of this year and it seems appropriate to open by doing the same in this quarter.
Clearly we saw a slowdown in the top line pace of the company in the second quarter and that really began towards the very end of the quarter.
And as you break that down one contributing factor is further emerging market weakness in our categories as we see the macro economic weaknesses finally come more sharply to our categories.
You will recall on the first quarter call that we revised the category growth rates for the emerging markets down to a 5% to 7% range from the previous 6% to 8%.
And based on what we saw in the second quarter we see for the balance of the year those emerging markets still posting good growth but at the lower end of that range.
In the developed markets for the Colgate businesses category growth continues at 1% to 2% with some growing optimism I would say in Europe.
Hill's as you heard experienced channel-specific slowdown here in the U.S.
which we are already seeing recover as this quarter begins.
As you heard very clearly from Bina our market shares around the world continue to be strong and accelerating in Mexico and the U.S.
2 particular geographies that we were focusing on since the beginning of the year.
And our innovation pipeline is deep and rich not just for the balance of 2014 but into 2015 as well.
We continue to feel that the strategy we have been deploying for several years a strategy that focuses on building brands with our consumers creating innovation that drives growth maintaining the efficiency and effectiveness that funds that growth and developing a cadre of leadership to continue to manage the company continue to be the right strategy as does our execution on the fundamentals of our business around the world.
We believe both remain correct and that is what we are redoubling our focus on for the balance of this year.
So with that as a backdrop while we continue to expect organic growth for the company this year to be in that 5% to 7% range albeit towards the lower end of that range given the current world environment.
On the material cost side we have seen further increases in material costs including topical oils and several of the agricultural commodities that affect the Hill's business and of course the continued transaction headwinds due to foreign exchange.
And because of that we now see gross margin expectations for the year move to a 30 to 50 basis point range with Funding the Growth maintained at historically strong levels as you will see when I go through the gross margin roll forward and of course more pricing across the balance of the year.
Behind that strong innovation stream advertising and the increasingly important commercial investment of in-store work will both be up.
The restructuring program remains on track and we continue to expect after-tax savings of between $90 million and $110 million and that tax rate as you would expect remains in the 31% to 32% range.
As you saw in the press release we remain comfortable with our 4% to 5% dollar EPS range and you may recall the walk-through that we provided on our first quarter call which guided to the middle of that range guidance that I would reiterate.
So in summary we believe the strategy that we are deploying and the focus on the fundamentals that we have remain the right ones.
Our market shares are strong.
Our innovation is robust and I think we can continue to demonstrate the agility and the flexibility to react to the volatile world that we are all doing business in.
So with those as introductory remarks Angela perhaps we could now open the lines to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we will now go to Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> I guess a couple of things.
There's a lot there Ian in your final comments.
But in terms of the macro slowdown I think you commented that it happened very late in the second quarter and I guess that concerns me because outside of Brazil every region saw I think a deceleration in your organic sales growth and at least came in below my expectations.
And I have a hard time believing that that all happened very late in the quarter.
And in terms of kind of going forward from here how quickly do you expect a pickup? How quickly do you expect a reacceleration? I guess specifically with regard to pricing and what you mentioned about commodity inflation how quickly can you put some pricing in place so that even that tempered top line growth outlook is achievable at this point? Yes.
Well obviously Wendy that is why I tried to make the introductory remarks because clearly from the early notes those are exactly the questions on people's minds.
If you track through the organic and focus on the emerging markets we were actually quite pleased with the organic growth that we sustained in Latin America.
The big variation of course is in Asia.
And clearly the world macros out there have been volatile and weak in some cases for a time.
But beyond the adjustment we made in the first quarter we had not seen that come through to our categories and it did so in the second quarter and it did late in the second quarter.
The other factor as I mentioned was related to Hill's.
And as I just said in my remarks we've already seen that -- Hill's bounce back.
The important point to make is that the underlying category growths are in that mid-single-digit range as I said.
What you get from a volume point of view is that in large geographies like a China for example with a very complex distribution system you get an inventory reaction that works its way through the system that has a short-term impact.
That was the impact we felt in the second quarter as we look forward at the consumption rates in other words the consumer purchase rates with them in the mid-single-digits area.
And with the pricing plans we have clearly in place for the second half of the year we feel comfortable with that more tempered organic volume growth for the entire company at the lower end of that 5% to 7% range.
So it's the underlying consumer purchasing that gives us confidence.
And we will now go to Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Ian you're now expecting sales at the low end of where you were gross margins moving a little bit lower.
Maybe you can just walk us through a couple of the offsets that help you keep EPS sort of the midpoint of where you were still intact? Well we obviously have the restructuring program which we have underway.
I talked about advertising for the year.
As I said the total commercial spend will be up and the advertising will be up on the year on a ratio basis.
It will be more in line with the strong levels of last year.
And when you work all of that through with the guidance we provided in the first quarter on the EPS that brings in the year.
And we will now go to Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So it's a little -- I mean I think it's unusual Ian for you to do one of these prepared remarks.
I'm just trying to figure out the severity of things.
Was it really that bad of a slowdown in the emerging markets? And even if it is you've historically been relatively immune to slowdowns as we've seen in the past.
I wanted to know you think that's changed for your business? Or is that much worse? In that context secondarily if you could talk about the double-digit constant currency earnings target for this year.
It sounds like you're not going to make that.
I just want confirmation of that.
And if it changes your view given what you're seeing in the emerging markets right now about this company being a double-digit earnings company over the next few years.
Okay.
So to answer your second question the growth this year is not double digits.
So I confirm that in a constant currency basis.
But it does not change our view our strategic view that for the longer term this is a double-digit earnings company.
As far as your comment on the prepared remarks and the slowdown on the top line frankly the only reason we elected to do it this way was because otherwise what you do is you usurp somebody's question in order to make some opening comments which seemed unfair.
So we simply thought it was cleaner to do it this way.
So I apologize if trying to be proper in the presentation created a sense that things were somehow bad which we do not believe they are.
We do see a volatile world.
We have tried consistently in that volatile world to deliver the agility and the flexibility necessary to keep driving our business ahead of the market growth which is why Bina spent so much time on the market shares because our market shares are strong and growing in key markets.
So this is us just reacting to a deceleration in our marketplaces in order to outperform what we see now as the probable growth rate in our categories for the balance of this year.
And we just wanted to be as clear as possible about that.
And we will now go to Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Ian can you discuss your market share performance so far for the SAC anti-cavity toothpaste where it's been launched and incrementality to your business? And then also on a related note given the healthy innovation pipeline you pointed to do you think you're investing enough in marketing here or will you temper the marketing a bit given the top line dynamics out there? Yes.
I think Bina went through quite a few.
In fact almost all of the market shares we have so far on superior anti-cavity.
And indeed it has been predominantly incremental in the marketplaces we have gone to.
So you're seeing share performance I would say in broad terms depending on when the markets were entered between 1.5% and 5% Turkey 1.5% Brazil as Bina quoted Malaysia 4%; Australia 4%; New Zealand approaching 5%; Greece over 2%; Norway 3.5% as Bina said; and Mexico 3% albeit that that is ScanTrack data.
And you heard that the Mexico shares are back up over 80 and the Brazil share is at an all-time high of 72.
So the more important breeding for us on superior anti-cavity frankly is that the trial rate is building very very nicely.
We have now 6 months data in and it is significantly ahead of the category average and the repeat rates are dead in line with premium category entries in the category.
So we're seeing it in the share.
But more importantly we're seeing it in the consumer behavior.
And on the support behind the new products no the levels of advertising spend and I'm now talking the traditional below-the-line advertising are at compared to our history elevated levels.
They're in line with the strong levels we had last year.
They are clearly focused behind the innovation in terms of building awareness getting recommendation.
And we keep trying to stress this point but it sometimes is difficult I guess to make the impression that part of our investment to build brands with consumers and generate trial of new products comes in activity that we do at the store level and that activity is captured in trade spending.
So it doesn't go into the traditional advertising line.
But when you think of consumer purchasing behavior and the techniques available to you today at retail it's an enormously important part of building brand and provoking trial purchase.
So we're managing very carefully between those 2 investment buckets the traditional advertising and the overall commercial spending to make sure the example I just gave on superior anti-cavity that we're generating trial above category norms so the repeat multiplies on a higher than normal trial base.
So the answer is we continue to believe we have a very well balanced plan behind the innovation for the year.
And we will now go to Alice Longley with Buckingham Research Brokerage.
With your guidance for the year that organic sales growth will be at the lower end of 5% to 7% it looks like you have to get some acceleration from the 4% in the second quarter to get there.
And you already talked about Hill's.
Where else might we see some improvement maybe Latin America because people won't be so glued to their TV sets and maybe the U.S.
on innovation.
But if you could just tell us more where we get improvement in the second half versus the second quarter that would be good.
Well first Alice I would say that the prevailing rate you have to get to in the second half is pretty much what you would have delivered in the first half.
So yes there is the second quarter 4%.
And as we look at the balance of the year given the underlying consumption rate that I mentioned in the emerging markets and particularly in Asia that would clearly be a business area where we would expect the organic growth to come back.
And as I commented on the Hill's business with the specific channel issue in the second quarter which we're already seeing come back we would expect to see that in Hill's as well.
So if you were pointing to 2 particular areas it would be those areas.
And who knows we may get wild optimism in Europe.
And we will now go to Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess the question is how do you -- how does your new view on the category growth dynamic affect your decisions on pricing if at all all right? Because I know at least one of your major global competitors has said that competitive levels in the markets are affecting their ability to price for currency.
You said that you expect more pricing in the back half.
But how does that work for you guys? Would you now take less pricing than you would've thought than before? Well remember Chris when you think about pricing what you're actually trying to do is to get the average selling price up.
So there are many ways of doing that.
List price is clearly part of it.
But there are many other techniques that we deploy strategically and tactically to elevate the ASP premiumization changes in your promotional activity.
So there are many techniques that we deploy.
And the reason we made the comment about the market shares in Mexico and the U.S.
is we got 1.5 pricing on the quarter and we have those market shares moving in the right direction.
Bina went through a whole host of other market shares that are moving in the right direction.
And we think we have the ability to continue to take pricing create pricing in the second half of the year without impinging on that mid-single-digit organic growth rate.
And innovation is an important part of that.
And we will now go to Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ian just kind of talking about capital allocation and looking with where the stock is today and going forward.
I mean is the EPS guidance I assume just assumes only the kind of $3 million a quarter share repurchase.
But would you look at deploying more in this environment and from -- or are there other things out there that you're looking that have a better return at this point? Well that's a very broad question Bill.
I guess the way we have thought about capital allocation over the years obviously one pays the dividend.
Obviously one has internal capital expenditure programs which deliver consistently in our case beyond a 33% hurdle rate of return.
And of course that capital investment is elevated in periods when we go through restructuring.
So right now we're deploying a little bit more in capital expenditure than we have done historically quite purposely.
And then of course we buy back shares as we have done and I would say our target is still in that $1.5 billion gross range for this year.
And obviously should an acquisition candidate present itself or should we find one in various parts of the world then we would prefer to allocate the capital in that direction.
And I don't think at least so far our thinking has changed in that regard.
And we will now go to Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I don't know probably a tough question to answer but did you figure out like what is the source of the volume shortfall? I mean is it people buying less? Is it fewer people in the category? Is it sort of the mix mechanisms you've used in the past aren't work as effectively? Is there any way to kind of triangulate those 3? Yes.
I -- it's difficult Bill.
As we have over time got under the hood of that you see what people do is they exhaust their own personal pantries.
They literally try and squeeze the tube and make it last a little bit longer so that they can extend the time between purchase cycles.
And as we have seen sometimes for cash outlay reasons instead of buying a bigger tube at a certain channel of trade they will go and buy a smaller tube in a different channel outlet.
So in terms of the consumer purchase that is what we have historically seen has been the behaviors they adopt.
The direct correlation to volume and the point I was trying to make specific to Asia on this quarter is from a selling in volume point of view you then have the dislocation that that slowdown brings to a very complicated and interrelated distribution network which sees some inventory adjustment which is a short-term effect as everybody readjusts to the now lower consumer purchasing rate.
So you see it more sharply on the company volume in the short term even though the underlying purchase that you will go back to as I said is still in that mid-single-digit range.
And we will now go to John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A little bit of a follow-up on Chris' question.
If we look at your pricing in Latin America and it's a lot lower than what we're seeing from a lot of these other companies.
I'm not asking you to comment on their pricing as much but can you talk about sort of how you're viewing sort of real pricing in Latin America as we look forward? And is this something where you're just not going to move as much relative to some of the FX pieces? And then sort of further delving down into Venezuela on this we have seen some companies talk about the margin caps et cetera.
Can you talk about sort of where you feel you are from a margin standpoint in Venezuela and if we look to map that out ourselves.
Yes.
Well let me start with Venezuela.
We've read all of the transcripts on the pricing caps obviously in Venezuela.
In our situation virtually all of our business is capped if you will by the government's 2012 policy that prevents us from taking pricing in the marketplace.
And therefore because of that the pricing cap doesn't really apply to us -- margin cap I mean.
So that would be the simple summary on Venezuela.
You probably saw or you will see that we posted a modest profit this quarter and indeed for the half which we had not done last quarter which is pleasing and we continue to manage that business with the diligence that you would expect.
And there have been quite a few press reports and indeed we are in very constructive discussion with the government about the opportunity for us to realize pricing on products as we continue forward in this year and we'll have to see where that ends up.
But we do spend a lot of constructive time in discussion.
In terms of pricing in Latin America actually we're quite pleased with the pricing balance that we have been taking in Latin America at this time remembering that there is no pricing in Venezuela.
So the overall pricing we're taking we think is both consistent.
You look at the first and the second quarter 6 and 5.
And of course that will continue in the back half of the year.
And of course for our gross margin to improve across the year we will have to see a light gross margin improvement in divisions including in Latin America so that is very much in our plan.
And I think the market shares talk to the fact that I think we're finding the right balance between the 2.
And we will now go to Olivia Tong with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You talked a lot about increased in-store activity but obviously volume was a little bit light of expectations.
So do your analytics suggest that consumers are just not as responsive to in-store activity as they used to be? Or was it effective and volume would have been worse if not for the promotional activity? And then also it sounds like you're quite pleased with the Funding the Growth and cost saves progress overall.
So what drove overhead up this quarter? The -- okay a couple of answers then.
In terms of in-store activity again as I try to example I think you have to try and separate out depending on the part of the world you're talking about the slowdown in overall consumption and the short-term impact that has on company volume.
So as I described before you can have a situation where as the consumer consumption slows overall you're still connecting with that consumer let's pick the emerging market mid-single-digit growth rate now that we are talking about.
But behind that given the distribution system as the volume readjusts to that lower level you see company volumes slow in a shorter timeframe.
The consumer is just as responsive at the purchasing end to the in-store trial activity.
So the in-store activity continues to be effective from a consumption point of view.
And in terms of the overhead increase it largely relates to distribution decisions we have taken in various parts of the world either to take our products to market directly and not through a distributor or to extend our distribution depth and therefore incur more logistic cost in order to get that distribution depth both of those things being good in terms of building our brands over the medium term.
So very conscious choices.
The underlying overhead is actually flat.
And we will now go to Michael Steib with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask a question just a follow-up question on the Latin American margin please it was down over 20 basis points in the quarter.
Given your comments on sort of the temporary effect on Brazil volumes in the quarter but also pricing do you expect to be able to reverse that in the second half at least partially? Yes.
I mean as I was trying to explain a little bit before obviously when you look at the impact in the second quarter a part of it is Venezuela and part of it is the lead lag between the very sharp increase in transaction impact on product cost and the ability to keep feathering pricing into the marketplace.
So as I tried to answer with the earlier question we do have more pricing planned for the balance of the year.
And as we look at our gross margin ambitions for the company that will see gross margins expand in our divisions including in Latin America.
So to your point we will indeed see improvement in gross margin as the year unfolds in Latin America as indeed we saw improvement second quarter to first.
And we will now go to Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> This is Brian Doyle in for Caroline.
We were just wondering how long destocking usually lasts and if it is limited to China at the moment or if there are other areas where it's affecting you? It's predominantly China.
It tends to be relatively short term.
I would say overall 60 to 90 days.
And we'll take our next question from Connie Maneaty with BMO Capital Markets.
I know it's a small market for you but this morning there are headlines that Argentina is defaulting.
What impact would that have on you? Yes.
Don't cry for me Argentina.
Argentina as you may know Connie is less than 1% of the company sales.
We manage these geographies as if they are a hyperinflationary so we do all the things even though we don't book it as hyper because it has not yet crossed the 100.
So we hold little cash.
We have de minimis cash in Argentina.
We don't have any debt outstanding and we don't believe we have a need for any external funding.
We make most of our product locally.
So as a direct impact of the default no impact for us.
Now of course what the knock-on effects are in terms of inflation and foreign exchange we'll have to see how it unfolds and react accordingly but I come back to the first point that it is less than 1% of our sales.
And we will now go to Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick things 1 was just following up on the 60 to 90 days for how long the destocking usually lasts.
You said some of the weakness popped up at the end of the quarter so should I interpret that as there's still a little bit more to go in 3Q or that continues in July but you would expect as you get into August September things start to improve? That would be a correct assessment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then the final thing would just be if you could run through the gross margin bridge for us that would be great.
I thought you'd never ask.
So in terms of gross profit prior year gross profit was 58.6%.
With the pricing we took we got 50 basis points from that.
Between our Funding the Growth savings and the modest contribution as in the first quarter from restructuring our total Funding the Growth in restructuring was 220 basis points actually slightly ahead of the 210 we got in the prior year.
Material prices were a headwind of 2 50.
And so with the pricing and the Funding the Growth that's what leads you to the 58.8% or 20 basis point increase year-on-year.
And we will now go to Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Question I don't think that you clarify the situation with Hill's in the specialty stores.
If you can elaborate what was this temporary dislocation.
And you mentioned that it was resolved but I'm just curious if you can tell us what happened there.
And then on pricing again shall we expect pricing to improve in emerging markets or is just a reduction of promotional activity in Europe given the strong volumes? To answer your latter point first Javier no it is not a reduction in promotion in Europe which drives that.
It is pricing and it is pricing across the world with a heavy emphasis on the emerging markets and continued emphasis on Hill's.
And in terms of Hill's I'm sorry if I made it sound like some sort of untoward event they had a traffic slowdown in their stores.
And as we have come into this quarter with our innovation and with the activity we have behind our innovation that for us has gone away and we have kicked off to a nice start in the third quarter.
So just a temporary blip.
And we will now go to Steve Powers with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Ian I was wondering if you could just break apart the drivers of the change in your gross margin outlook between January and July really I guess between April and July? How much of the reduction has been driven by a decision to move demand building dollars from ad spend to trade spend versus some of the other factors you mentioned like FX commodity inflation the general slowdown that you experience et cetera? That would help.
Yes.
I don't really want to get into that sort of level of detail.
And I would say in terms of rebuilding our gross margin it's basically between the materials and the transactions.
So that's where our focus is.
And we will now go to Alec Patterson with AGI.
Ian I need to follow up on that last question.
Just trying to understand you're saying that material costs are the material -- is the main change versus where you were in April? Or is it more a function of promo spending that's up to offset I presume increased pressure on the categories especially in emerging markets? Well clearly when you do the investment at store that investment at store brings pressure on gross margin.
But we have had that thinking in our plan.
So the new aspect is an increase in material prices and a shall we say heightened impact from transaction.
And we will take our final question from Mark Astrachan with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Curious on your thoughts on Hill's given the slowdown you talked about in the specialty stores.
Do you think there's an opportunity to expand distribution and is there even a benefit in doing so beyond just that channel? And then just more broadly curious your thoughts on growth rates in that business or in Pet Nutrition sort of broadly in Europe U.S.
and sort of your views on longer-term opportunity in developing markets is something that eventually will be bigger than it is today? Yes.
The answer to the distribution question which has been asked many times is given the model we have for that business we do not believe that that would be to advantage but rather the recommendation we cultivate with veterinary professionals is best maintained in a controlled environment whether it's a pet store a PetSmart or a PETCO where the assistants can advise or indeed directly with the vet.
That is part of the connection that brand has with the consumer.
If you were then to liberalize that and take it more broadly into if you will a grab-and-go environment you lose that connection.
To your second point you are absolutely right Hill's today is predominantly a developed world business.
We have a very clear focus on a handful of emerging markets where we are seeing a most immediate potential for that growth.
But indeed part of the attractiveness of the business is the long runway we see in terms of emerging markets coming into the fold and providing sustainable growth for the long term.
So those are all the questions for today.
I thank everyone very much for joining.
I thank all the Colgate people for contributing so hard to the results that we deliver.
And we look forward to catching up with everybody again after the third quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Company Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded and is being simulcast live at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
Today's conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
So for information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement on forward-looking statements.
The conference call will also include a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures which differ from our results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
We will discuss organic sales growth which is net sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and divestitures.
We will also discuss gross profit gross profit margin SG&amp;A as a percent of net sales operating profit operating profit margin net income and earnings per share on a diluted basis excluding the impact of the items described in the press release.
A full reconciliation with the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the press release and is posted in the For Investors section of our website at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
Just a reminder there may be a slight delay before the question-and-answer session begins due to the Web simulcast.
Now for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Bina Thompson.
Please go ahead Bina.
Thanks Rochelle and good morning and welcome to our third quarter 2014 earnings release conference call.
With me this morning are Ian Cook Chairman President and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller; and Elaine Paik Treasurer.
And we're pleased to have reported another quarter of solid organic sales growth.
As we all know business conditions around the world are challenging.
We as others have seen slowing growth in the emerging markets and continued heightened competitive activity in the developed markets.
And the dollar has continued to strengthen in the face of economic uncertainty worldwide.
And any economic recovery in the developed markets is muted and tentative at best.
However we think our focused strategies still serve us well and are well-understood by all our people who are intent on winning on the ground.
Innovation is as important as ever and you'll hear not only how new products have helped increase market shares but about more new products slated for the balance of the year.
While a strong dollar along with higher material prices has resulted in a modest growth margin decline in the quarter we continue to believe we will see gross margin expansion over the long term.
Our Funding the Growth program is as robust as ever and is expected to deliver full year savings at or above our goal.
And while our reported advertising is down as a percent of sales if you look at the total bucket of commercial spend it is up both absolutely and as a percent of sales as impactful and trial-generating in-store activities have supported our robust new product activity.
Our Global Growth and Efficiency Program is proceeding smoothly and as you saw in this morning's press release we've expanded the program to take advantage of additional savings opportunities which we expect will begin to be realized towards the end of 2015 or early 2016.
And we're seeing some encouraging trends in the markets of China and Brazil.
While both these regions declined for the third quarter as a whole we saw a reversal toward the end of the quarter which we believe should bode well going forward.
So as I said a challenging environment but we think we're well-positioned to meet these challenges going forward.
So turning then to North America.
Organic sales growth accelerated in North America from the second quarter and market shares are solid.
Our excellent performance in manual toothbrushes was highlighted in the press release.
One of the drivers was Colgate Optic White Toothbrush and Built-In Whitening Pen.
This new product has generated good trial and strong repeat rates ahead of not only our Colgate Optic White manual toothbrush but a competing brush as well.
In the quarter another significant launch was Colgate Enamel Health toothpaste and Colgate 360° Enamel Health toothbrush.
While it's early days results of the toothpaste have been very good.
Our national share at the end of September was over 2% and this result exceeded both historical competitive launches as well as competitive launches in the third quarter.
Importantly the launch has added incremental share.
Our overall U.S.
toothpaste share is now 35.8% for the past 4 weeks up 1 full point versus the year-ago period.
This 35.8% share is also ahead of our year-to-date share of 35%.
Since the second quarter consumption growth has been ahead of category growth.
In fact for the past 4 weeks consumption was up 7.6% versus the category growth of around 2.5%.
A relaunch of our Colgate Total Advanced Whitening toothpaste has been accompanied by the launch of Colgate Total Lasting White mouthwash to take advantage of the power of a complete regimen.
Colgate Total Lasting White mouthwash has an innovative formula that helps remineralize tooth enamel prevent stains and fight tartar and has no burn of alcohol.
Our overall mouthwash share in the U.S.
is now at 6.5% year-to-date up 120 basis points.
To continue this momentum we're launching Colgate Kids mouthwash.
This is an opportunity to reinvigorate the kids mouthwash segment with a brand mothers trust.
Distribution of the product is building at key retailers as we speak.
Of note also is our share in fabric conditioners.
The Suavitel brand is as you know largely sold in Hispanic markets and has now reached a record 18% share of the general market year-to-date up 130 basis points.
Innovations such as Suavitel Fast Dry has contributed to this success.
Turning then to Europe/South Pacific.
This region delivered solid results.
Organic sales have increased every quarter this year and this despite ongoing macroeconomic pressures.
Innovation continues to be an important driver of our performance.
As you know 1 of the key elements in our global growth and efficiency program is the formation of hubs and much of the hubbing to date has occurred in Europe.
As of July all European hubs have been implemented.
Central Europe West Central Europe East Southern Europe U.K.
Nordic and Western Europe.
These streamlined operations should further position us to effectively win on the ground.
Our oral care market shares are strong.
In toothpaste our regional share is at 35.3% year-to-date up almost a full point from the year-ago period with the most recent reading at 35.4%.
The results were broad-based with increases in virtually every hub.
Our regional manual toothbrush shares are up a full point year-to-date to 23.5% with the most recent reading at 23.8%.
Mouthwash is at 17.9% year-to-date up from 17.8% in the year-ago period.
Our Sanex business is also performing well across its categories with share increases in body wash liquid hand soap bar soap and underarm protection.
This year we relaunched our Sanex body wash which contains the advanced Dermo Active 3 complex to deliver the 3 key benefits to keep skin healthy protection deep moisturization and pH balance.
This has helped to strengthen Sanex's credentials in moisturization and elevate the product's quality perception.
We talked last quarter about the rollout of Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection plus Sugar Acid Neutralizer hereafter to be referred to as Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection.
And that has continued with the launch of the product in France in September.
Italy is scheduled for October and Central Europe East for November to complete the rollout.
A notable performance is in the U.K.
where the market share is almost 4% in the latest period.
Also in the U.K.
we entered the electric toothbrush market 2 years ago.
The initial offering the Colgate ProClinical C350 was at the higher priced end of the market.
So this month we're launching a lower priced version Colgate ProClinical C250.
Around 75% of the market is priced at this price point so this launch should make us more competitive in the marketplace.
Turning then to Latin America.
Business is strong across the region and as referenced in the press release we continue to maintain strong leadership positions in toothpaste and manual toothbrushes.
As elsewhere the regional rollout of Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection is meeting with success.
In Brazil where it has been in market for about 1 year it has achieved a 2.2% share year-to-date.
In Mexico where it was more recently launched in April it's achieved a year-to-date share of 1% with the most recent period at almost 2 points.
The product has now been launched in virtually every country with only Peru Ecuador Bolivia and the Caribbean region remaining.
Other toothpaste innovations such as Colgate Total Breath Health and Colgate Luminous White Instant which we described to you last quarter are also being rolled out throughout the region.
Compelling innovation in manual toothbrushes has resulted in record high leading shares in Brazil Chile Puerto Rico Uruguay and Paraguay.
In bar soaps our market share is up 40 basis points to almost 30% year-to-date.
Across the region Protex and Palmolive hold the #1 and #2 positions respectively.
A steady stream of innovation in this category has helped increase market shares.
A recent relaunch is Palmolive Naturals Daily Exfoliation with oats and brown sugar.
Consumers know that it is important to exfoliate the skin.
Its formula with brown sugar and natural oats provides a gentle exfoliation for beautiful and smooth skin.
Turning then to Asia.
As noted earlier we've experienced slowing category growth in inventory correction in China which has affected overall growth despite a very strong performance in other markets.
However this situation appears to be improving as we said it would on our last call.
Despite the external challenges we've continued with our innovation program.
As elsewhere Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection toothpaste is meeting with success.
Launched in Malaysia in February of this year it has now reached almost 4 full share points in the most recent period and has added incremental share.
Our toothpaste share is now at 73.5% year-to-date.
In India where our share is up 30 basis points to 54.6% year-to-date our May launch of Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection toothpaste has already achieved almost half a share point in the most recent period.
And across the region our manual toothbrush share is up 50 basis points to 30.4% year-to-date.
In India our key brand Colgate Super Flexi has driven the overall toothbrush share up 210 basis points to 43.7% year-to-date with the most recent share at 43.9% consolidating our leading position.
And in mouthwash our regional share is up 140 basis points to almost 22% year-to-date.
Looking forward we have more innovation to come.
One interesting new product planned for launch in China in the fourth quarter is Colgate 360° Gold Charcoal toothbrush.
As you know some consumers are very interested in charcoal as an ingredient but a new trend which has also emerged with the Chinese consumer is gold.
This toothbrush in addition to having gold-colored bristles and charcoal-infused bristles will also have an antibacterial component within the bristles.
And in addition the product should be very impactful on the shelf with its black and gold packaging.
Also in the region we're very excited about our recent acquisition in Myanmar of the laser toothpaste business.
Together with Colgate's 20% share the added 35% share of laser gives us a strong leadership position in this rapidly evolving country.
Turning then to Africa/Eurasia.
Business remains healthy in this part of the world and we were particularly pleased with the solid volume growth in both Russia and the Ukraine despite all the political turmoil in that part of the world.
Regional toothpaste shares year-to-date are at 32% even with the year-ago period but our most recent reading is 32.3% and we see good momentum building behind our continued stream of innovation.
Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection toothpaste launched in South Africa a year ago is just the beginning to be rolled out throughout the rest of the region.
And in toothbrushes we've had excellent results in the South Africa where the share is up 3 points to 37.7% year-to-date with the most recent read at 38.3%.
Similarly in Turkey where our year-to-date share is 28.4% we've seen share momentum in the 2 most recent periods which share reads of 28.9% for May-June and 30.5% for July-August.
Our regional mouthwash share is up 50 basis points to just over 20% year-to-date positioning us as the #2 mouthwash brand across Africa/Eurasia.
In Russia we continue to benefit from the launch earlier this year of Colgate Plax Altai Herbs.
Our share is up 220 basis points to 27.7% year-to-date.
Results for the shower gel category is strong fueled by our Palmolive Gourmet Spa line.
Our year-to-date share is at 22% up 160 basis points with almost every country contributing to the positive share and momentum.
As elsewhere around the world innovation will continue.
Colgate Total Pro Whitening toothpaste which provides 12-hour protection for a healthier mouth and whiter teeth now selling in Russia Ukraine and Turkey will be rolled out to additional countries in the region in the fourth quarter and next year.
Another pan-regional launch starting this quarter will be Colgate Total Mouthwash which should help build on our already strong mouthwash business.
And in the personal care category we'll extend our very successful Palmolive Gourmet Spa shower gel line into liquid hand soap.
Finally Hill's.
The Hill's business is solid as new product activity across our brands has delivered good results.
Hill's Ideal Balance is now selling virtually everywhere in the world.
Here in the U.S.
both the dog and cat wet and dry products have been well-supported by the super stores.
In those channels in the quarter consumption of Hill's Ideal Balance was up almost 40% versus the year ago period.
The launch is going well in Europe as well and is being supported by a fully integrated marketing campaign.
Our Hill's Science Diet business in the U.S.
is being supported by a Healthier Pet Happier Lives national campaign which is focused on preventative care to drive our new Life Care portfolio of diets.
For the year-to-date period our consumption is up 15% in our 2 largest retailers.
In the weight category both the Hill's Prescription Diet Metabolic line and the Hill's Science Diet Perfect Weight line are doing well.
And next quarter we will be adding a new variant Hill's Science Diet Perfect Weight for small and toy breed dogs the fastest-growing pet population.
The recent global launch of Hill's Prescription Diet CD Multicare Urinary Stress feline supported by an extensive sampling program and in-clinic feeding trials is also helping drive Hill's therapeutic business.
And finally we're really excited about our latest innovation Hill's Ideal Balance Crafted expected to launch next quarter.
Capitalizing on the growing trend of the humanization of pets this superpremium price product offers authentic ingredients prepared the right way with care and is crafted in smaller batches to help lock in the flavor.
The unique ingredients such as salmon fresh vegetable chickpeas buckwheat shroud and herbs are customized for dogs and cats.
The compelling packaging reinforces the product's attributes.
So in summary we're pleased that our businesses continue to grow our around the world.
Our focused strategies are serving us well.
Our new product pipeline is as full as ever and a broad array of new products launched globally have helped increase our leadership shares in many markets.
We are providing our Colgate leaders worldwide with the tools to keep winning on the ground.
We look forward to sharing our results with you as we move to the end of the year.
And now Rochelle we'll turn it over to questions if we could please.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So first just a clarity question.
What level of organic sales growth and FX impact is implied in your 2015 earnings guidance? And the real question is Brazil and China clearly weak in the quarter.
Obviously Bina highlighted that trends improved at the end of the quarter but we had heard some hope.
I think last quarter the Q3 trends would improve which didn't play out as much.
So I just was hoping for a bit of a state of the union on what's causing pressure in Brazil and China if those factors kind of linger going forward and how much visibility you have here that your business has bottomed in those markets? Yes thanks Dara.
Well let me take a little bit of a step back on the world and our categories and include China and Brazil in those comments and then take you forward to 2015.
Let me start with the developed world where I guess we have been saying for a time that our category growth rates are in the 1% to 2% range with Europe being at the lower end of that range and the U.S.
now creeping up to the higher end of that range and that hasn't really changed.
When you then turn to the emerging markets as we have said on the last couple of calls we came into the year from a 2013 where the growth rates were between 6% and 8% and said that the growth rates were now likely to be between 5% and 7%.
And on the last call we said that those growth rates had decelerated to the lower end of that range.
And what we have seen is that during the third quarter that has continued to be the case.
In other words those headwinds have not reversed.
Now very specific to China on the last call we described and explained how the combination of the deceleration in consumer consumption led to a destocking of the extended distribution system in China through distributors and wholesalers and that we thought that would correct itself in response to a question if I recall within 60 to 90 days.
And somebody said well does that mean the China business will come back from a Colgate volume point of view towards the end of the third quarter? Now many of us have just come back from an extended trip to Asia and I'm pleased to say that is precisely what has happened.
In other words while China for the quarter remains modestly negative what we saw in terms of independent offtake data is consumption at about mid-single digits and the destocking working itself through the system.
So as we finished the quarter our volume was now servicing again that mid-single-digit rate of consumption.
And at this point we would say we expect that to continue.
Brazil is China redux except a little bit later.
I think frankly we were planning for a recovery following the World Cup and that didn't occur.
The category growth rates repeated what we saw in China.
And the inventory destocking also compounded against that reduced consumer consumption level.
And again as Bina has said we have begun to see that come back in Brazil with the category growth rates now in the mid-single digits.
But it started a little bit later in Brazil.
So it will be a little bit into the fourth quarter before it fully comes back.
Pleasingly in both cases the consumption which is to say what consumers are buying continues to be at that mid-single-digit level.
So for 2014 we think it prudent to say with all of that in the mix that our view on organic top line growth is now broader.
We're saying between 4% and 7% for the year because we think that's prudent.
And as we said on the release we really have just started our 2015 budgeting process.
But based on the information we have today we think it would be prudent to likewise say that our organic growth range for 2015 will be in that 4% to 7% range.
And next we'll move to Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess Ian taking that 2015 commentary to EPS it sounds like based on where spot rates are today I think your '15 EPS preliminary outlook sounds like it would imply your healthy double digit EPS growth into 2015.
And I guess correct that if it's wrong and if it's not can you just talk about why you feel that level of confidence especially with some of the macro trends that are going on out there? Well in fact Chris thanks for the question the EPS growth rate for next year we have tried to be quite specific in guiding to mid to high single digits in dollar terms not double digits.
And that reflects the recent foreign exchange deterioration which as you know was very sharp and towards the end of the third quarter and when one goes through the various investor notes that have been written about the business many people have come to a like conclusion in terms of what they see dollar EPS growth being.
So as we said in the release we're expecting another year of growth.
And having been asked the question we would frame it as 4% to 7% organic.
We talk about expansion of the gross margin.
And as we go through our budget process you would imagine that our target continues to be that 50 to 100 basis point expansion and mid to high-single digit EPS growth in dollar terms.
And that's the way we're framing and approaching 2015.
And next we'll move to Wendy Nicholson with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit more about the non-China markets in Asia because -- I mean if I'm not mistaken I think China's only kind of like 20% 25% of that region and for the overall organic sales growth to be up only 1% it still sounds like there's real weakness in the other markets.
I know you called out India as being strong actually.
So what else is dragging down the numbers is it the Philippines or Malaysia like what else is big enough to move the needle there? That part of the world is heavily influenced by China and India.
And when Bina said India was strong India was strong.
And the Southeast Asian countries generally performed very very well during the quarter.
So it really is China and the correction of that Chinese business back to I stress this underlying mid-single-digit consumption rate for consumers.
And next we'll move to Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Again a couple of questions on what's going on in a few markets.
Let's pick up where you left of on the last one on India.
India is strong.
I guess the question is what's strong in India? When we look at some of the Nielsen data out of India it shows volume decelerating throughout the quarter.
At least into July August now reaching almost down 6% for the category for toothpaste specifically.
So I guess where is the offset or is it just potentially a problem with the data? And then secondly we've heard Nestle we've heard Unilever talk about some of the pricing problems or challenges throughout Europe.
You've got another quarter reported here of negative price and promotion.
So maybe you can comment a little bit more on what you're seeing in terms of the competitive dynamics and pricing environment throughout Europe? Well let's take India first.
Without getting into specifics we have seen consistent double-digit growth in India every quarter this year.
We continue to build their market share on toothpaste and on toothbrushes our leadership market shares.
I would also add by the way with that independent study that happens every year in India for the fourth straight year Colgate was voted the most trusted brand in any category in India which gives you a sense of the consumer loyalty and affection for the brand.
One thing we've been doing for a while in India is expanding the strength of our distribution in the rural areas.
And I would venture to say Jason that when you start getting to that level of distribution without in any way impugning Nielsen or other data sources the quality of the data becomes perhaps a little bit suspect.
In Europe actually we were pleased with Europe.
There is no question that pricing has become for some retailer in some cases competitor and other an approach a tactic I guess to try and build overall growth.
So we were pleased to see the volume growth we had in Europe and indeed the modest organic growth along with good-sized margin -- gross margin expansion delivering goods financial results there.
And as Bina said in her comments and I think we have taken this view for some time now in Europe I think we are clear-eyed about the growth rates that can be expected there and we have put an extraordinary focus on reorganizing our European business to make it structurally efficient against a flat line growth rate.
And I think we're seeing the benefits of that.
And we're also seeing market shares improve as Bina mentioned in her prepared remarks.
So this hubbing that we have moved to in Europe is working very well for us against 1 of the objectives we had which was to strengthen our executional capability on the ground.
And next we'll move to Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk about the Colgate Total growth in the quarter and if this triclosan nonsense is done? And then I do have a follow-up.
Yes it was done Bill until you raised it.
Research Division</strong> No one listens to me I promise.
The share is flat.
You may have seen Javier's [ph] note where they ran an independent survey I think with 2 500 people which basically suggested that the awareness was vanishingly low.
In fact lower than other ingredients in toothpaste products.
And obviously as you would imagine we have like tracking data which shows the same thing.
So it is a non-issue.
Your follow on? Research Division</strong> Ian I just wanted to ask you is the destocking all done globally now? And do you think the U.S.
is like really pulling out? Some of the data points it seemed like the U.S.
is really starting to accelerate in the last month or so.
Yes let's not get too excited.
I think the U.S.
is showing modest acceleration.
But these things have tended to be lumpy.
But I tried to imply that in my remark on category growth that we are indeed seeing the U.S.
upshift towards the higher end of that 2% range.
On the destocking given the vastness of the 2 geographies and the indirect nature of the distribution China which we talked about in the second quarter we believe on the data we see is done was done by the end of the third quarter.
Brazil is on the way to being done and that will be completed during the fourth quarter.
There are no other spots of destocking.
And next we'll move to Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I want to get a better sense of why you believe that you can go back to double-digit dollar base earnings growth long term because you haven't done in the past 5 years or so including this year.
And I guess another way to ask the question is what do you need to get back to that target? And if your answer is macro and FX then how should we all think about your level of defensiveness and indeed the whole industry's level of defensiveness and macro insensitivity versus history? Wow.
I haven't finished Picasso's book yet so I'm not sure how to answer the question.
I think Ali the way to think about it perhaps would be on a relative basis.
I mean I think for the last several years we have seen things happening in our world that have been truly unusual and volatile events.
Many of them having implications both in terms of consumer purchasing behavior and fundamentally foreign exchange as people run from risk to perceived safety and they impact companies severely in the short term.
So while we return to a better macro environment and a more stable foreign exchange environment I guess the way to think about it is on a relative basis.
And next we'll move to Steve Powers with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Going back to China and Brazil I guess one question on China and Brazil and then sort of an unrelated question if you'll entertain it on Venezuela.
First on just on the volume declines in China and Brazil are you able to parse out at all how much of those declines were true unit declines versus negative mix and trade down because I can see how the unit volumes could reaccelerate substantially and sustainably with inventory rebalancing but a trading down trend or less trade-up anyway might be harder to overcome without macro relief.
And then on Venezuela it would seem that you're now running the risk of operating at a loss maybe a material loss in that market with this latest devaluation.
Although I know in your Q you've got some price relief that's come through which is good.
So I'm trying to balancing those 2 things out.
Will Venezuela now be running at a loss? And if so can you frame for us how far you're willing to go in incurring losses in that market because it's hard to see how things get better before they get worse at least from a currency perspective.
Yes I mean to answer the Venezuela question first Steve we're not running at a loss.
I think Venezuela is about 3% of the company's sales and about 1% of the company's operating profit.
And as you rightly observed I think we mentioned on the last call that we felt we had been in very constructive discussion with the government relative to pricing.
And indeed we were granted pricing basically across our portfolio in Venezuela which won't actually move to the marketplace meaningfully until the fourth quarter and will modestly improve our position there.
So indeed we view that as a positive and certainly we'll not see Venezuela in a loss-making position.
In China and Brazil we run a dollar-weighted volume anyway.
From our reporting point of view when we look at the information we have from independent trade surveys we can track that whether you look at volume or value.
The destocking as I said earlier in China is now through.
And we are back to meeting consumption with our shipments.
And in Brazil it is in like fashion working its way through the system and will be completed in the fourth quarter.
It really was the distribution system catching up to the succession of consumer slowdowns but that consumer consumption now seems set mid-single digits and now our shipments are coming back to that.
And we'll move on to Olivia Tong with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about what's driving that 50 to 100 basis point gross margin acceleration next year when presumably FX and raw materials are still a drag at least in the first half and it sounds like incremental savings don't start kicking in until later in the year and then maybe this is an opportunity to also give the gross margin bridge for this quarter? I was wondering when somebody would do that.
Okay.
Let's start with the gross profit roll-forward.
So last year it was 59.
In this quarter we pick up a 50 basis point benefit from pricing.
Between the restructuring program and our Funding the Growth savings we pick up 230 basis points essentially in line with last year.
Material prices sequentially worsened from the 2.5 basis points negative -- 2.5 point negative in the third quarter to 3 and you've got 20 basis points of mix et cetera and that brings you to the current year at 58 640 basis points down.
Now if we take that and look forward first thing to say our Funding the Growth program remains strong.
Secondly our restructuring program remains strong.
Third given the timing of pricing that we took in the third quarter and the Venezuelan price increases we are now realizing in the fourth quarter we expect pricing to be a more significant component of offsetting the material price headwinds.
Looking forward again we have not finished our budgeting process.
But in terms of some of the underlying commodity costs one would say that there are emerging signs of weakness.
And one would also say that in terms of oil even though there is a lead lag before you get the full benefit of that we have gone into our budget with a $100 assumption and we know where oil sits today.
So it will be a combination of the funding the growth where material prices really end up after we have been through the diligence of our budgeting and pricing.
And Caroline Levy with CLSA will have our next question.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could elaborate a little bit on Europe? And there's been some upheaval in the retail environment there.
And is any risk of inventories getting stock in the system there and what are the risks you still see going forward in Europe? Yes I think the risks are pretty much out there for all to see.
I'm not sure retailer-specific will be an issue.
I think I know the retailer to whom you are referring.
But we have in those kind of environment all sorts of checks and balances in terms of inventory against consumption.
And I think it highly unlikely that such a situation would arise in the European environment.
And we'll move on to Connie Maneaty with BMO.
A follow-up on Venezuela.
Is the pricing you're getting in the fourth quarter do you view it as a onetime event or do you think the ability to price to offset inflation is coming back? And then because of the pricing will the impact of the devaluation in 2015 assuming rates stay the same be lower than the $0.03 you're expecting in the fourth quarter? We -- I will offer nothing on 2015 Connie.
We really have not got that far at all.
And all I can say about the pricing we have received is that the government provided specific direction as to the categories that we were permitted to take pricing in and indeed what the level would be by category and by size within that category.
So I think it would be perhaps naïve to assume that that would allow companies to take pricing as they wish.
And I think any future pricing would be likewise a similar discussion with the government.
So I don't necessarily view it as a onetime but I don't view it as opening the door to companies taking pricing at will.
And next we'll move on to Alice Longley with Buckingham Research.
I have a couple of follow-up questions on China.
You said that demand is growing mid-single digits and I guess you expect your shipments to start growing at that amount -- at that rate starting now.
Does that include online sales? And could you also tell us what percentage of your sales there now are online and give us some sense of how quickly that's shifting? And also how much of that growth is price? And then finally I'm just wondering whether the shift to online could be 1 of the reasons that there was an inventory issue.
Maybe there was too much inventory in 1 channel versus this other channel that's growing faster? So to respond Alice thanks for the question yes the consumer offtake has returned to that mid-single digits level.
And yes our sales are now servicing that level of consumption.
So we saw that in the last month of the quarter.
And it would be fair to say that's what we expect going forward.
Relative to online I know in some categories in China online is a large and fast growth segment or retail environment.
But in our business it's not so.
We are represented but the amount of business done online in our categories is de minimis and I don't think would have in any way affected the trade destocking.
And as we look forward to 2015 in terms of the balance between pricing and volume for a country again we haven't finished our budgeting process and I probably wouldn't say anyway.
And we'll move on to Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the advertising and commercial investment mix because Bina pointed out in the prepared remarks that the total basket of spending was still [indiscernible] and advertising was down.
So what is your I guess plan for that over the next couple of quarters? Was this in somewhat reactionary to the more competitive environment in the U.S.? But is it really -- is that the same around the world? If there's a bit more in-store promotion going on versus advertising? What were some of the decisions made and how I guess not permanent but how sticky do you think they'll prove to be? If I sort of take a 20 000 view around the world 20 000-foot view around on the world we have seen in many markets competitors reduce their advertising weight in market and shift spending to price promotion or coupon-driven promotion perhaps in the quest for short-term volume.
You have no choice at some level but to respond to that.
So part of it is that.
Part of it as we have said for a long time and we must find a way of being more articulate about it but part of it is structural in terms of the way you engage with consumers.
With the techniques we have today in-store engagement the sharper marketing we talked about with consumers which often comes out of trade spending can be a very effective way of building trial for a product.
So some of it is a conscious shift to techniques that we know work when you can target particular consumers in different retail environments.
And as we think forward our preferred view as we have said before as well is that we believe in driving growth particularly when markets are growing less fast through innovation and innovation supported by advertising that generates trial not price promotion.
And therefore our planning assumptions or our thinking going forward is that we would see that traditional below-the-line advertising come back.
But we would not let ourselves become disadvantaged tactically as time unfolds.
But our preferred model is innovation-led advertising supported with quality execution on the ground that makes your product irresistible in store.
By your product I mean our product.
And we'll move on to Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Ian a little bit of a follow-up to Lauren's question with regards to trader spending and couponing and all that.
Do you think that -- are you getting -- now that you shifted more toward trader spending are you getting the volume lift that you hope or not? And if you did are you -- are we going to see more of flattish advertising versus trader spending? And related to that also to what extent -- what are the issues you see that market share gains have slowed either because Unilever is no longer losing as much share in toothpaste and Procter is more aggressive in some of the key markets like China and Brazil? Yes where to start.
The -- I think it's fair to say that the adjustments we made and I think we've talked at the beginning of the year about Mexico and the U.S.
as Bina has commented have been effective in rebuilding our market share.
And that was something we believe we had to do in the face of the competitive activity.
We don't see that as a permanent strategy and I would come back and say innovation-led advertising-supported but irresistible in store is the way we would think about prioritizing our spending.
In terms of the share discussion you'd kind of have the go around the world.
Suffice it to say you mentioned China I would say in China we have approaching a 34% market share in China and both our principal multinational competitors are seeing share decline.
And so from an aggression point of view honestly we aren't seeing it.
And we're not -- we're certainly not seeing it in the market share.
So it's a market-by-market thing.
And in Mexico and the U.S.
it was an adjustment we made.
But if you take the world our preferred approach is innovation advertising-supported irresistible in store.
And we'll take our final question from Mark Astrachan with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk about your expectation for 4% to 7% sales growth for 2015 in the context of lapping China and Brazil destocking and now the commentary about pricing coming in Venezuela.
So it would seem a bit like growth should be better next year relative to this year.
So I guess that they're both sort of the same but how much of that is conservatism how much of it is an assumption about category growth somewhere going up going down.
Maybe just any other color you could give sort on the underlying expectations for next year would be helpful.
Yes 4% to 7% Mark allows it to get better.
But I think just based on everything you see in the world today it seemed prudent to widen that range a little because who knows what next year brings.
I think when we speak again after our fourth quarter and we would have been through our budgeting process we will be in a far better position to perhaps give a sharper guidance at that time.
So I think this brings the call to a close.
I thank you all for joining us.
Thank you very much for the interest in the company and the questions you always have.
And thank you again to all those Colgate people who may be listening.
We value the work you do.
Goodbye.
And that does conclude today's call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Company Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded and is being simulcast live at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
Today's conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
So for information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement on forward-looking statements.
This conference call will also include a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures which differ from our results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
We will discuss organic sales growth which is net sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and divestitures.
We will also discuss gross profit gross profit margin SG&amp;A SG&amp;A as a percent of net sales operating profit operating profit margin net income and earnings per share on a diluted basis excluding the impact of the items described in the press release.
A full reconciliation with the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the press release and is posted in the For Investors section of our website at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
Just a reminder there may be a slight delay before the question-and-answer session begins due to the Web simulcast.
Now for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Bina Thompson.
Please go ahead Bina.
Thanks Kathy and good morning everybody and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings release conference call.
With me this morning are Ian Cook Chairman President and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller and Elaine Paik Treasurer.
We’re pleased to exit 2014 with organic sales up 6% as compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 which was the strongest quarter of last year.
Our market shares were strong around the world as you will hear in a moment.
As always innovation has been critical to our success we’re excited about our pipeline looking forward to 2015 and beyond.
In many markets macroeconomic challenges persist and of course foreign exchange has been and will continue to be a considerable headwind as translation alone is projected to impact EPS in 2015 over 10% at current foreign exchange rate.
That makes us even more pleased to be able to deliver continued organic sales growth and positive results on the bottom line.
While our gross margin was down in the quarter due to very significant transaction costs we believe that we will see an improving trend as we move through 2015 with a more benign raw material cost environment and pricing taken to offset the impact of rising transaction costs related to foreign exchange.
Our funding-the-growth program is as robust as ever in our Global Growth and Efficiency Program is on track.
Generated in 2014 related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program we are over a $100 million after-tax and above the top end of our projected range.
Overhead expenses are down in the quarter due to tight controls in all divisions and savings from our Global Growth and Efficiency Program.
Our total commercial spending also increased into both existing and new products.
We think we are well poised to meet the challenges we face as we enter 2015.
We believe our strong balance sheet and solid cash generation should keep us in good stead.
So turning to North America we are very pleased with our progress here innovation is contributing to organic sales growth and we have more plan for this year.
In the fourth quarter in the U.S.
our market share increased year-to-date in toothpaste and manual toothbrushes and was even with the prior year in mouthwash.
Results are strong across our portfolio in toothpaste.
Our Colgate Total toothpaste share remains over 10% supported by a graphic refresh relaunch of Colgate total events whitening and the boost provided by our companion Colgate Total Lasting White mouthwash.
The Colgate Optic White franchise is also doing well as the superpremium is driving instrumentality with its year-to-date toothpaste share up from 5.3% to 5.6%.
And as you know we also launched Colgate Enamel Health toothpaste and toothbrushes in the second half of 2014.
It's off to a strong start and our overall toothpaste share is up 1.4% in the three months after its launch as compared to the three months prior.
In the mouthwash category our year-to-date share is up more than 4 points while our two major competitors full-year shares declined with excellent result from Colgate Total Lasting White mouthwash.
Our fabric conditioner business continues to perform well both for the full-year and the quarter our market share is up over 4 points to a new record close to 20% of the overall market and as you know these products are primarily sold in Hispanic markets.
Now as you would expect we have more innovation slated for 2015 with a full grid plan for the first quarter.
In toothpaste we are launching Colgate Optic White Expressway toothpaste.
This innovation provides whiter teeth in just three days simply by brushing with best results after four weeks of brushing as directed is Colgate’s fastest whitening toothpaste and it’s enamel-safe for daily use.
In the mouthwash category we’re launching Colgate Total gum health mouthwash it provides advanced gum protection for 45% stronger healthier gums versus the non-antibacterial mouthwash.
Fights plaque between teeth and along the gum line and kills 99% of germs on contact with 12 hour protection against bacteria that caused gingivitis.
In the toothbrush category we are launching Colgate Sensitive toothbrush plus sensitivity relief pen.
Using the same innovative pen application technology is so successful in the whitening segment.
This pen utilizes our patented Pro Argin technology to deliver sensitivity relief 24/7 with continued use and goes right to the source of the pain.
To rekindle momentum in the dish liquid category we’re launching premium priced Palmolive Multi-Surface which is specially formulated to kill bacteria on dishes and hardened non-core kitchen surfaces.
And on the value side we’re launching Ajax all-in-one dish liquid which has a new formula with 10% more cleaning ingredients than before.
And to further our success in the fabric conditioner category we’re launching Suavitel fragrance pro with the proprietary scent system which provides five times longer lasting fragrance compared with using detergent alone.
As well as Suavitel fast dryer sheets which helps close dry 30% faster than using detergent alone.
Turning then to Europe South Pacific we enjoyed another quarter of organic sales growth in this region with a slight acceleration in volumes in the third quarter.
Our commercial hubbing activities part of our Global Growth and Efficiency Program are now complete and were implemented with very little disruption in fact in the quarter we're virtually all new hubs delivered positive organic sales growth.
Innovation is critical in this part of the world and it continues to contribute to market share growth in a number of categories.
Our market shares across Europe are up year-to- date in toothpaste manual toothbrush battery toothbrush mouthwash liquid hand soap and dish liquids.
Of note all categories of our Sanex business has grown market share year-to-date shower gel liquid hand soap and underarm protection.
Our launch of Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection plus sugar acid neutralizer is now complete across the region with excellent share results in a number of markets.
One of our first launch market Denmark posted a 4.1 share in the most recent period and two larger more recent launch markets the UK and France have already achieved 1.5% and 2% shares respectively in the most recent periods.
Building on this success in 2015 we will continue full marketing support for the toothpaste along with a further rollout of a companion toothbrush and mouthwash.
As I just mentioned our Sanex business is performing well and recent exciting new product activity to support further growth.
Launching in the first quarter is Sanex advance Sanex's first body care regimen developed with a leading dermatologist.
Available in three different formulations the regimen will include a body lotion and hand cream to complement the body wash and deodorant.
This is Sanex's first entry into the hands and body lotion category.
The Sanex Advance Dermo Repair bundle for dry skin with minor damage contains active restore complex and [allantoin] to restore pH balance and miniaturization.
The Sanex Advance Atopiderm bundles for extra dry atopic skin contains skin identical lipids and emollients to help restore the skins protective barrier sooth itchiness and control hypersensitivity helping the skin to keep functioning normally.
The Sanex Advanced Hydrate 24h bundle for very dried dehydrated skin uses Ceragly Activ technology in a shower gel and lotion which has a pseudo-ceramides and glycerin to maintain the skins’ protective barriers by locking in the moisture.
And in addition will be launching Sanex in Poland a new geography which will provide incremental new business for us.
Turning then to Latin America business across this region is solid organic sales growth accelerated from the prior two quarters in 2014 and while volume increased a modest 1% versus the year-ago period this was on top of a very strong increase of 10% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Toothpaste shares are strong across the region in Mexico our most recent share is 80.8% up 80 basis points in the year ago period.
Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection has achieved a 2% share in the most recent period.
In Brazil in December our toothpaste share reached 72.1% for the month the highest share in the past 18-years.
This is in spite of a lot of competitive activity.
Our manual toothpaste business is performing well.
In Mexico we achieved a record share of 45% in the latest leading while for the first time our major competitor dropped below 40% share.
Soap was across all retail environment self-service stores pharmacies and the indirect trade.
We reached a record year-to-date share in Brazil as well with good growth in the superpremium segment with a 32.4% share of the market the number one position.
In bar soaps we’ve strengthened our leadership position across the region of half a point on a year-to-date basis to 29.7% with the most recent lead at 29.9%.
Innovation in both the Palmolive and Protex equities has contributed this success.
And in the Home Care category our year-to-date regional market shares have increased in fabric conditioners of 50 basis points to 51.6% and in liquid cleaners of 70 basis points to 36.3% and we have more exciting new products plan for 2015 across all our categories.
In the first quarter specifically where excited about a new subcategory in the Protex Body Cleansing category feminine intimate wash.
Protex is a brand that's recognized as an expert in skin protection and is positioned to transfer readily into the intimate soap subcategory.
It will be launched with a fully integrated marketing campaign including our products website and endorsements from a well-known journalist.
Primary placement in-store will be on the intimate shelf with secondary placement on the soap shop to attract attention from loyal Protex users.
Turning then to Asia we’re pleased with the acceleration of organic sales growth in this region as we indicated would happen last quarter.
And as referenced in the press release we saw good toothpaste market share gains in a number of countries.
In India our market shares increased to 54.4% up 30 basis points on a year-to-date basis.
Colgate Active Salt toothpaste developed especially for this market where salt promotes antibacterial efficacy increased 70 basis points to over a 5% share.
In Malaysia our year-to-date share is up 30 basis points to just over 73%.
Anticavity segment now comprises almost 27% of the market and Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection toothpaste launched last February has a 3.2% share year-to-date with the most recent lead of 4%.
In manual toothbrushes our regional share increased 20 basis points year-to-date to 30.2% with eight out of 10 countries reporting stable positive growth.
In India our share reached a record 43.2% up 120 basis points on a year-to-date basis.
Innovation under the Colgate Slim Soft equity has been particularly successful.
And our regional mouthwash share increased 120 basis points year-to-date to 23.1% with the most recent period at 24.6%.
Looking forward in toothpaste we will be relaunching both our base sensitivity line as well as the Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief line.
In addition we will be adding Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief Repair and Prevent.
This new product has a unique calcium and amino acid complex which repairs the root cause of sensitivity preventing the pain from returning.
In India we will be launching Colgate Active Salt with neem.
The neem tree in India is known for its antibacterial properties.
In certain markets we will also introduce a line of Kids toothpaste for children aged two to five a segment currently somewhat underdeveloped which presents a great incremental opportunity.
New in the mouthwash category will be Colgate Plax Bamboo Charcoal and as you know Charcoal is also why reviewed as an ingredient to fight bacteria.
Turning then to Africa/Eurasia this region continues to deliver strong organic sales growth despite some macroeconomic challenges in the countries such as Russia.
Our regional toothpaste share is up 10 basis points to 32.4% year-to-date.
And despite difficulties in Russia and the Ukraine our year-to-date share is up 10 basis points to 32.9% in Russia and up 170 basis points in the Ukraine to 28.2%.
We have also seen good share increases across Sub-Saharan Africa and North Africa.
In manual toothbrushes Colgate 360 and Colgate Slim Soft have helped increase our share in Turkey up 30 basis points year-to-date to 28.7%.
In South Africa we are up 380 basis points year-to-date to over 38% of the market.
And across the region our mouthwash share is up 30 basis points year-to-date approaching 20%.
Colgate is the number two mouthwash brand in Africa/Eurasia.
You may recall we told you about a new product in Russia Colgate Altai Herbs mouthwash.
That has contributed to 210 basis point increase in our Russian mouthwash share to 27.5% year-to-date.
We also have a good market leading shower gel business in this region.
Our year-to-date share is up 120 basis points to almost 22%.
Russia Turkey and South Africa have all reached record shares.
We told you on previous calls about our Palmolive Gourmet Spa line with enticing coffee chocolate vanilla and peach fragrances.
That innovation has been one of the drivers of the excellent share performance.
And innovation this quarter continues.
To support our relaunch of our Colgate Total toothpaste portfolio we have initiated a new integrated marketing campaign around the idea of the incredible mouth.
The idea is that Colgate knows that your mouth is incredibly weak which is why Colgate developed Colgate Total to protect 100% of your mouth not only your teeth.
To continue the momentum in our shower gel business we are launching Palmolive Tiger freshness for men.
You may recall we’ve had great success with Colgate Altai Herbs products toothpaste mouthwash and body cleansing.
Outside is a region in Russia known for its herbs which are believed to have curative properties.
Similarly Tiger is the northern forest characterized by pine bruises and larches covering much of Northern Eurasia.
This new product offers a freshness and cleanliness of the legendary [tiger] in your shower.
Finally we are pleased with Hill's continued good organic sales growth of 4% in the quarter particularly when compared to a strong 7% growth in the year ago quarter.
Innovation has driven good results across our Science Diet Prescription Diet and Ideal Balance portfolios.
For the Science Diet portfolio nutritional consultant shopper engagement at superstores and sampling of our new salt savory treat here in the U.S.
has helps drive sales.
In Europe Hill Science Plan Perfect Weight has been supported with secondary displays in-store and in-store weighing area and on shelf dynamic cleans to explain the product benefits.
Here in the U.S.
Hill’s Ideal Balance has gained share in both the wellness and natural segments and consumption of the product in superstores was up strongly versus the year ago period.
In Europe the product contained excellent trade acceptance in the UK and Germany two large pet food markets and receive support with promotional activities and secondary placement.
And our prescription diet metabolic line continues to meet with success.
To build on that this quarter we're launching prescription diet metabolic plus.
32 million pets have obesity related concurrent conditions.
This is the first and only dual efficacy therapeutic pet nutrition food.
It will be available for weight loss plus mobility for dogs and weight loss plus Urinary Stress for cats.
The product will be available in both a dry and stew format.
And we’re also very excited about the new global packaging redesign across the prescription range.
With more consumer friendly packaging and new better tasting formulas the bundle is designed to create a stronger emotional connection to strengthen our leadership and innovation credentials and improved taste reception that's rolling out across the US Canada and some of the high-growth markets in the first quarter of 2015 and Europe in the second quarter.
So in summary we believe our solid results for the quarter are a good indication that we have effective strategy.
And we believe that this consistent strategy has stood as well for many years.
We know it well.
Staying close to the customer and consumer innovating everywhere becoming more effective and efficient and on going leadership development.
We believe our objectives on the ground have the tools to make the right decisions balancing price and volume supporting innovation in-store and out increasing market share all this is winning on the ground.
We in our competition are like are faced with choppy times volatile swings in currency and macroeconomic challenges in many parts of the world.
So we believe it’s a simple consistent focus well understood by every Colgate person that makes the difference.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Q&amp;A.
Kathy.
Thank you.
Today’s question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically for the telephone audiences.
[Operator Instructions].
We’ll first go to Steve Powers from UBS.
Hi Bina.
Ian good morning.
Good morning Steve.
Maybe just a few little things to kick things off of we could first could you just start up by providing the gross margin bridge for Q4 and maybe talk a little bit about how those drivers are expected to trend into 2015 any changes in margin improvement or organic growth expectations for the year versus last quarters outlook would be great.
And then maybe drilling in could you also provide a little update on volume and sales trends in China and Brazil specifically it looks like things improvement is expected in China but you were still battling through some inventory issues in Brazil.
I’m just curious if that’s a fair read and just the expectations on how you expect momentum to trend from here.
Thanks.
We’ll see I think as Bina said at the end of her prepared remarks I guess we live in a world these days where focus is really important but so is agility and I think you saw in the fourth quarter the agility and the balance I guess between volume and price as our 6% was composed of volume growth in all divisions in pricing increases largely in the developing world.
So if we take that to the gross profit row forward and you go back to the prior year gross profit 59.1 we benefited from 1.4 points of pricing as you can see a step-up from the prior three quarters between our funding the growth and restructuring we had something like 280 basis points of benefit and then faced a headwind in terms of material prices of some 4.3 point of which two points for the quarter was transaction and then they were 20 basis points negative of some other minor changes which gets you to the 58.8% gross margin.
Interestingly although we are where we are if you were to go back to the October conversation we had and our expectation for the full quarter of gross margin to be even with prior year if you just stripped out the exchange deterioration since our October call in fact for this quarter our gross margin would have been at prior year level.
What we manage to do by moving quickly on pricing was to offset the dollar impact of the foreign exchange but not yet the ratio impact.
So that’s 2014 when you go forward into 2015 I guess you have got a few things in terms of our view on gross margin our view on gross margin for 2015 is that we will expand it between 50 and 100 basis points on the year.
Now that is going to progress through the year from the first to the fourth quarter.
We get a benefit in 2015 of course from the current oil prices which we expect to work through towards the end of the first half next year and of course commodity materials which our forecast would say more or less flat year-on-year and these are benefits we haven’t seen in prior year.
We will continue and indeed already have take pricing particularly in those emerging markets where we have to meet the transaction impact of foreign exchange because that’s what translate into the operating earnings.
We will of course be focus on our funding the growth program which again should benefit in 2015 from a more benign cost environment and of course we have our restructuring program.
So as we begin 2015 we feel good with the expansion target of plus 50 to 100 basis points on gross margin stepping it way up through the year.
Now when you come back to the topline of the company I think the fourth quarter played out organically pretty much the way we expected it.
We see the destocking in China behind us and that’s why we see that the 6% organic there and indeed organic growth in the country itself.
In terms of Brazil we said that we would still be working through the destocking in the fourth quarter that would be completed in the fourth quarter and then we would move into 2015 and indeed that has been the case.
But if you step back and kind of take a look at where is the consumer we continue to see for our categories that in North America category growth and again I am talking our categories is between 1% and 2% as we said on the last call it is edging widely up to the upper end of that 1% to 2% range.
Europe continues to be more even between 0% and 1% and across the emerging markets we continue to feel comfortable with the mid single-digit local currency value growth rates for our categories.
So that’s the environment we see in 2015 with China and Brazil now behind us.
And we will move on to our next question from Dara Mohsenian from Morgan Stanley.
Hey good morning.
Hi Dara.
Ian pricing accelerated pretty significantly sequentially in Q4 and was a big driver of the organic sales growth acceleration in both emerging markets and globally so I just wanted to get an update on your view of the competitive environment here and your ability to sustain that level of pricing going forward with a lower oil costs and flat commodities overall.
Or even get more pricing with some of the incremental FX pressures you are seeing.
And then also in Q4 on a related note how much of the Latin America price increase was related to Venezuela and Argentina? Thanks.
Yes I think we have demonstrated fairly consistently and ability to deliver pricing to offset the transaction impact of foreign exchange.
I think we demonstrated that in the fourth quarter and we expect to continue to price as we have already done in some parts of the world.
So pricing will be a factor in growth and in our gross margin expansion plans for 2015 and we believe as we indeed already have that we will be able to realize that and I go back to the fourth quarter and say there was a fairly meaningful step up in pricing in those emerging markets and yet we still had a balance between volume growth and pricing growth.
Now when you turn to Latin America the need for pricing again is driven by foreign exchange and if you look at Latin America overall we took pricing in the fourth quarter and you see pricing up literally across the geography from Mexico through Central America our Indian group Venezuela Brazil and the Southern so we took pricing across the board in Venezuela as we told you on the last call we along with our two principal multinational competitors and the large local player down there on price controlled categories got approval to increase pricing and so we along with everyone else increased pricing in Venezuela and that will roll forward into 2015.
But again you look at Asia you look at Africa Eurasia we're taking pricing in all parts of the world that are affected by foreign exchange.
And next we’ll move to Chris Ferrara of Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Hi Chris.
Ian just a follow-up on that look I can appreciate that you don’t want to breakout exactly what Venezuela pricing is but I think the question on lot of people’s mind is just look the Latam segment pricing and the resilience of volume even our tough comp was very impressive that was very impressive.
But I think what we’re all trying to figure out is as it relates to the sustainability of it was Venezuela and Argentina a disproportionate driver of that right in other words can we feel comfortable with the assumption that you guys were able to hold volume very well across the segment broadly and the numbers aren’t necessarily skewed by Venezuela and Argentina.
Clearly we got more pricing in Venezuela because we had no pricing for an extended period of years.
So the answer there is clearly yes as it was for everybody else that we compete with in that country.
I think the more pertinent question is our ability to maintain that pricing and continue to increase that pricing going forward and our view is that yes we can.
And again I come back to the fourth quarter having taken pricing we did see volume growth in all of our divisions.
Now of course that step in Venezuelan pricing will ease off as we work our way through 2015 because Venezuela is much more episodic than many of the other markets.
So the answer is yes.
And again back to the consumer behavior we continue to see our categories hold in the emerging markets at mid-single digits.
And remember as you will see when we file our K for us 2014 Venezuela continues to represent about 3% of the company’s worldwide sales and only about 1% of the operating margin.
And next we’ll go to Olivia Tong with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning thanks.
I wanted to ask you about consumer consumptions levels do you think that the current gross rates that you are posting are inline with where consumer consumption is right now.
And on top of that how do you think about your inventory levels at retail.
And then I also want to touch a little bit on the elasticity of demand in your categories because in the past you said that consumers understand pricing due to FX but at what point does that equation start to potentially breakdown because this quarter you obviously saw a big acceleration in price and volume really didn’t accelerate all that much but can you help us understand the analytics just make sure you don’t potentially go over board on pricing and what you consider too much like if volume decelerates to the point where you are seeing negatives which you consider that to go too far and clearly I’m painting specially about Latin America.
Thanks so much.
Yes.
Well clearly Olivia as I’m sure all other companies do we do considerable work to balance even the short-term volume impact at the pricing we take.
I come back and say we sold volume growth in all of our emerging markets even with the stepped up pricing we took in the fourth quarter so we think we have a handle on it and we think again remember the types of products we are selling that we can take the pricing necessary to offset the foreign exchange impacts and continue to maintain that balance between volume and price and indeed volume slows a little bit when you take the pricing but then that balance comes back.
Look on retail inventory you may remember we were the first to talk about the destocking in China and I think we’ve tried to be very transparent about what we saw unfolding in the marketplace is the China destocking is behind us and I said on the last call that we expected brazil to work through in the fourth quarter and it has done.
We track not only retail inventory we track inventories with all of our distributors country-by-country and we have parameters that actually relate back to the return on invested capital the distributor gets in terms of the inventory levels that they would hold.
So we have a very clear view on that inventory and we have a very sharp focus on making sure that it is not at least by our actions out of balance.
What we saw in Brazil and China was a marketplace destocking because of the slowdown in the category.
So I think you can feel confident that we have very much control on that inventory.
And remember as we talked about when we went through those sub-prime years in difficult times products in our categories if you will become the simple luxuries that consumers can afford.
So the behavior of using these products does not go away when times get slightly tougher.
And next we have John A.
Faucher from JPMorgan.
Hey John.
Hey Ian how are you? We’re good.
Thanks.
Excellent so just wanted to follow up and some of the guidance commentary in terms of I think you said that or Bina said rather that the 10% is the translation number.
So can you talk a little bit about that the transaction pieces little bit different now given what we’ve seen in terms of the move in the euro and some of the other more developed market currencies which obviously are negative? So can you talk about sort of how much of the transaction piece maybe you are not going to cover and can you get pricing in developed markets to cover some of this transactional pieces.
Is that a possibility even or that something where you basically say you know what we are going have to yet that impact given where the market is right now? Thanks.
Yes thanks John.
Let me just complete what Bina said I mean so when you think about foreign exchange as a headwind yes the translation impact is 10% on the bottom line.
On the topline we see it going to be about 7% and 7.5% on the year.
So that just gives you the breath of that.
In terms of the transaction impacts that is embedded into our guidances on gross margin being up 50 to 100 basis points.
The transaction impact whether it’s the balance sheet aspect of payable in the short-term or the more substantive foreign exchange impact on raw materials imported finished goods.
In the medium term that hits the gross margin squarely and if you don’t recover that you can’t deliver an operating return so all of our guidance is assuming our ability to offset that transaction impact.
Now remember offsetting that transaction impact is not just a function of list price increases in any given marketplace.
It could be benefited from mix it could be benefited from different types of promotional activity but elevate the ASP we have the benefit of our funding the growth program we have the benefit of the global growth and restructuring program that we have underway.
And as I said at the beginning the benefit of a more benign commodity environment especially in the area.
Now if you look at Europe and North America list price increases are difficult to accomplish but you saw in Europe terrific margin expansion this year.
So there its going to be some of the other techniques but I think are going to continue to drive gross margin.
Most especially funding the growth efforts the Global Growth and Efficiency Program and what we can do with our promotional efficiencies as we go forward rather than list price increases but that's the way we plan the year John.
And next we have Joe Altobello with Raymond James.
Thank you good morning.
Good morning Joe.
Just want to shift gears a bit to SG&amp;A I want to put the 50 basis points of overhead savings in some context.
It seems like it’s a bit of an out layer compared to the last few quarters.
First of all what was the FX impact on SG&amp;A in the quarter and how sustainable is the 50 basis points you saw on the fourth quarter and how should we think about advertising next year came down about 60 basis points in 2014 it was down both absolutely as a percentage of sales.
So I am curious how are you thinking about that as you are shifting dollars and advertising to promotion in 2015? Thanks.
Well let me start with the advertising Joe.
So as we have said for quite a considerable time the advertising is a combination of what we all grew up with which is the traditional media and promotion and we have always balanced that in terms of the traditional with the in-store activity that we undertake during the year.
So if you look at the balance in fact in the quarter our total commercial investment was up as it was for the year.
Interestingly many of our competitors in many large markets around the world eased back on their traditional advertising spend.
So in many of those markets actually our competitive pressure was actually strengthened.
Now as we think about 2015 in terms of that traditional bucket of advertising and promotion we are planning for that to increase absolutely and as a percentage to sale.
And as we have always done we will continue to balance that as the year unfolds.
So we feel very much that the advertising is where we needed to be.
And I think candidly Joe when you look at the results in the fourth quarter we got a 6% organic growth rate and delivered a pretty robust bottom line.
And of course is that kind of sustainable top and bottom line growth that we are focused on relative to the overhead Forex is that much of an impact.
We continue to expect to make progress in terms of overheads because the global growth and efficiency program is largely focused in that area rather than gross margin this time around.
And again as Bina said we were ahead of delivery of that program in 2014 and we will continue to make progress in 2015.
We will now move on to William Schmitz of Deutsche Bank.
Hi good morning Ian.
Hey Bill.
Hey so I am just trying to figure out the organic top line guide I mean you gave market growth rates is that going to be your growth as well.
Because like if I wait sort of 45% developed 55% emerging assume that develop pieces 1% to 2% and the emerging is 5% to 6%.
I kind of get you like 3% to 5% range is that the right way to think about that or do you think you’re going to continue to gain market share in the growth asset in the markets.
We’ve been quite pleased with our market share progress Joe and caller says Joe Dale everyone is Joe and obviously we had some new businesses that we're entering whether it’s the intimate product whether its new markets with Sanex and indeed some of the new geographies we have around the world like Nigeria like Iran like stepping up our position in Bangladesh but we continue to be comfortable with that 4% to 7% range that we have talked about which we think adequately reflects the volatility that is in our world.
You know if you take 2013 as a year a full-year we came in about 6% if you look at 2014 now as a full-year we came in organic growth about 5% so we think that 4% to 7% range remains reasonable and indeed that is what we are planning against.
And I’m sorry about the name slip up.
And next we have Michael Steib of Credit Suisse.
Good morning Ian.
Good morning Joe.
My question relates to the U.S.
environment really you said that you have category growth is edging towards the upper end of the 1% to 2% range yet pricing in your categories continues to be down due to the promotional activities.
Given the commodity cost tailwind even if its marginal that you are going to experience next year do you see that promotional environment remain at broadly similar levels going forward or should it get - intensify from here? Well I think Michael that our assumptions is that it will continue pretty much as it has been when you look at 2014 you might say that some of the – shall we say naked pricing pressure has come off but we definitely saw in the North American environment couponing both in terms of the number of coupons dropped and you know that’s a large part of U.S.
promotional activity and works its way through the income statement and price that couponing volume and couponing values both stepped up substantially in 2014 and we expect that will continue in 2015.
Now in part coupons create trial for new products so that’s quite healthy so you will see some bumps I guess quarter-by-quarter because of that.
So we are assuming that competitive environment in our categories at least will continue as we’ve seen it per haps with more emphasis towards cuoponing.
And next we’ll move to Connie Maneaty of BMO Capital.
Good morning.
I was hoping that you would discuss some metrics that have improved in the areas where you have completed the move to your new hubbings? Okay I think we – the new areas really will back up I mean we have had hubbing operations in parts of our world for a long period of time and I think we talked about that relative to Latin America when I talked about the groups we had there in the activity we took that the next big tranche if you will hubbing has been Europe and in that environment we have both accomplished and delivered the savings and the efficiency that we were looking for and now the market level activity begins and the next like of that journey.
Now will be to get the accrued benefits of having hubs now with shared service centers and I guess frankly most importantly of all with that focus and the ability to sharpen our investments behind the businesses as you saw in release and in being is commentary market shares in our principal categories are up.
And that in a slow growth European environment is ultimately what all depends I think our ability to continue to deliver organic growth in that part of the world which when you think about why we prioritizes Europe first from the global growth and efficiency point of view was the objective of the exercise.
And next we have Bill Chapel with SunTrust.
Good morning thank you.
Hi Bill good morning.
In [indiscernible] walk through as we look at oil kind of dropping to where it did in the fourth quarter how that works through your P&amp;L over the next 12 months I mean in terms of big diesel or just straight oil or resin I mean and maybe percentages if you can – we see 50% of the benefit by the first half or do we really not see it until the second half.
Just trying to get gauge of how it really influences the business and how long it takes to influence the business? Yes well you know as you’ve heard for many there is a lead lag things in life have a way of going up quicker than they come down.
If you take oil the most immediate benefit you get tends to be in freight because that price is quite quickly and so we got a little bit of benefit in the fourth quarter very modest and we expect that to benefit of starting in this quarter in 2015.
When you talk about the flow through benefits of the resin impact and the other material impact that will start to benefit us towards the end of the first half partly related to it working through the system partly related to our own inventory levels you have to work those through before you get the benefit which is why we make the point that as we build to that 50 to 100 basis points gross margin improvement it is going to build across the year because the commodity benefits will really start flowing in the second quarter.
And next we’ll go to Phil Astrachan from Stifel.
Hi Mark.
Hi how are you doing everybody good morning.
I wanted to just ask follow-up to that last question just where are you budgeting oil for 2015 and then just you’re shifting gears could you talk a bit about your thoughts on share gains that you've seen from some of your euro-based competitors over the last three to five years.
And your views on sending off some sort of incremental spend that they're going to have given current exchange rates as well as potentially reversing some of those share gains that you had or sort of just broadly have you think about a more able-bodied competitive landscape from some of those companies? Yes we - in terms of the oil we actually budgeted oil at about $60 so obviously if it says that the current level we will pick up a little bit more we’ll have to see how all of that works through across the year.
In terms of European-based competitors if you mean from a foreign exchange point of view we're all managing in a world.
And we all have different parts of the world and we all have growth ambitions in those different parts of the world.
We have we think being quite responsible with the benefit of Global Growth and Efficiency Program in Europe and making sure that our commercial investments including traditional advertising and promotion are appropriate for both the European category growth rates and the competitors we meet in Europe.
If we see things change and we think we need to be more responsive back to this notion of agility and balance.
We will take the appropriate action.
But right now we are quite comfortable with our European growth.
And with our investments stands there relative to both the categories and our competitors.
And next we will go to Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
Hey Ali.
Hi guys how are you? So just a couple of quick follow-ups and one is and I'm sorry you might have said this but I jumped off for a second if you could quantify actually Ian the Venezuela impact on your growth rate because even that’s you know 3% of sales that we said price mix as best as we can tell you put that together it might be 0.50 two points of your six point growth.
So if you have [indiscernible] if you could say that again and I do want to go back to this ad spend begin down 8% below 10% for you which is something into 2009.
And its point I don’t think it’s unique to you guys.
Lot of the companies in the sector are kind of that your point balance the above the line versus the below line ad spend.
And the list of the brand so I am trying to get a sense from you because I [indiscernible] one quarter right so.
So the list of the brand as you go forward and how do you think about that gross to net versus pure ad spend and what the right balance is? Yes well know even if you did drop off Ali we didn’t provide that information on Venezuela and we won’t now that the point I did make relative to Venezuela in the Latin America is that we took pricing across Latin America in the fourth quarter in the case of Venezuela yes it was episodic as we said in the third quarter it would be because haven’t had pricing for several years that same episodic benefit also benefited our principal multi national competitors who got the same government approvals on key categories for them at exactly the same time we got out and indeed the local competitors was granted pricing as well.
So everybody benefited from pricing in Venezuela.
But the point to make is we took pricing across the board and then environment where everybody was getting pricing our global growth rate was indeed 6%.
In terms of the advertising yes you are right one has to be conscious about the brand health as we call it.
I will say that the kind of model that perhaps the many of us grew up with where what was accounted foreign trade spending was inherently bad and only the so called below the line spending was good.
I think those days are gone I think ones ability take Hispanic consumers in the U.S.
that you can reach with in-store activity that may have a component of price but might be much more driven by a coupon that has regionally dropped at high population areas.
These kind of techniques are now available and they weren’t available before and you can measure them you can execute them retailers can handle different configurations to put them at work with a consumer but coming back to the brands we do do tracking work and our tracking work around the world shows that if you take our Oral Care business around the world the health is very very good of those brands.
So by all means we track it sometimes from a short-term point of view if couponing or other activity steps up you have no option at least in part to participate but I think we’ve been one of the loudest voices at least I hope so in saying that we much prefer to compete in an environment of innovation with marketing support than price promotion but we don’t see a weakness in brand health that is something of course we have and we will continue to track.
And next we’ll go to Lauren Lieberman of Barclays.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning Lauren.
Just two things.
One was to follow-up on this conversation about in-store spend versus traditional advertising.
Is it fair then to summarize kind of the environment you are seeing right now to say that in the regions where you have had more in-store spend more promotion its not necessarily because of negative flair ups in the competitive environment it’s a little bit more choiceful on how to best reach the consumer for a given activity that you guys have slated or is there in fact a kind of step up in the negative promotional environment currently? I would say it is more the formal Lauren and these are techniques that with our Colgate business planning and so on that we have learned to be efficient with so its choiceful but you know I also have to say take in environment like the United States there is no question that that couponing environment has become more competitive and we have correspondingly become more competitive in that environment but if I took an overall stance I would say as we have been saying for a time that it is choiceful with techniques that we think not only reach the consumer but actually strengthen the equity of our brands overtime.
And now we will move on to Javier Escalante from Consumer Edge Research.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning Javier.
My question has to do with detachment of a restructuring program.
There was expanded to the saving target to up to $390 million assumes to me that only a third of the savings has been accrued up to now.
So I would like to understand how much of savings will accelerated in the next couple of years in order to hit the $390 million target and if you could help us understand what kind of activities are going to happen is this more hubbing like the one that you did in Europe or is it manufacturing facilities being up and up and in Asia help us understand physically what activities are going to take place that are going to help the savings to ramp up in the next - these two years? Okay thank you.
Yes well the first thing to say Javier the program is very much on track indeed has Bina said our performance in 2014 was up.
If you look at our so far savings against the total we are running about half accrued.
So its not a third and if you look at the activity going forward yes it is in the same areas that we had very much spoken to in the beginning.
So it is the hubbing it is what we are doing with our facilities and it is the expanded use of the Colgate business service centers and we are very excited by it because we think as we have now seen in Europe not only does it bring you the immediate term savings but it makes you operate smarter and faster and in a more efficient manner.
So we like it not just as a Global Growth and Efficiency Program but because we think it ultimately gets this organizationally to a better place from an operating point of view.
And next we’ll go to Caroline Levy of CLSA.
Hi Caroline.
Good morning Ian and Bina thanks.
I’ve got a question about Russia and another on Mexico.
On Russia I guess if you have to describe it as pretty chaotic and I'm just wondering how much of your pricing you were able to take in the fourth quarter and how much you think you still need to take and whether you think demand will drop off quite meaningfully.
And secondly on Mexico both Kimberly and Procter have had very difficult years trading in Mexico and they to some extent blamed the higher consumer tax.
Are you seeing any slowdown in demand or did you see any slowdown do you see any pick up what’s going on in Mexico for you guys? The Mexico hasn't changed for us.
We certainly didn't see a 20% decline there nor did we see a 20% decline in China.
So no that environment hasn’t really changed for us.
Russia for us is still a relatively modest part of our business between 1% and 2%..
Chaotic may be overstating it that it is indeed difficult.
And it is likely to become more difficult.
We have lived this before at the end of the 80s.
And indeed the senior executive that lived within is living it again now.
And so that we know the actions to take from a structural cost point of view and we are taking those actions and of course we are taking pricing and we are transferring funds and we are watching closely distributions and wholesalers.
So we are very much managing Russia from a containment point view.
But we’re close to our businesses.
So we believe we have a good handle.
And interestingly shares were up.
So maybe cold but there up.
And we will take our final question from Jason English of Goldman Sachs.
All right thank you guys for squeezing me in.
Hi Jason.
Even got the name right.
Yes.
I’ve got a couple of follow-up questions.
Good question Joe.
There we go there we go.
All right now it seems right.
One on the promotional dynamics on P&amp;G conference call they referenced expectation of 400 basis points of margin gains constant currency or even currency loaded out of Brazil and India.
Hard to see how they get that without pulling some of the money to put in the market back out so are seeing the promotional intensity ease in those markets.
And then secondly gross margins I just want to walk through a little more on more deeply on the answer to the question earlier your signaling sort of neutral commodities maybe even a little bit of favorability with oil so does study hold line on price continued productivity you do the math on that even if you assume that transactional headwinds become more substantial than they were this quarter.
Its still hard not to see a path at least 150 basis points of gross margin expansion.
So what am I missing there? About 50 basis points.
I think if you take India and the promotional intensity actually India from doctor’s point of view was never particularly intense in our categories now if you look at India you know Bina I talked about the market share we're approaching 55 and the competitor in question has about a 0.7 shares.
So and our business there continues to be quite strong.
In terms of Brazil I would say yes the promotional intensity has dropped off a little bit in Brazil which is a good thing.
On gross margin Jason and I’m sorry with the glib response but the gross margin is really one of phasing because as I tried to explain earlier we think that gross margin expansion is very much going to build across the year because although we see the headline lowering of commodity costs and certainly oil the work through of that from our inventory point of view to its effect on resins bottles et cetera will take some time to be seen.
And on the flip side the transaction impact you know when ForEx goes to Guinea that hits you straight away whether it’s the stuff you have to pay and your payables whether it’s the dollar denominated raw materials that replace that what you are now having to pay for.
So that’s immediate and the win back on the gross margin take a little bit more time.
So I do think we’ll next year in a strengthened position gross margin wise but it really is all to do with phasing.
So I believe these were all the questions we have.
End of Q&amp;A Yes sir.
Okay so well thanks very much for catching up with us today and a special thank you all the Colgate folks that make it happen.
Bye-bye.
And with that ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's call.
We would like to thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Company First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded and is being simulcast live at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
Today's conference will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of the first time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
So for information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements on Forward-Looking Statements.
This conference will also include a discussion on non-GAAP financial measures which differ from our results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
We will discuss organic sales growth which is net sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and derivatives.
We will also discuss gross profit gross profit margin SGA SG&amp;A as a percentage net -- of net sales operating profits operating profit margin net income and earnings per share on a diluted basis excluding the impact of items described in the press release.
A full reconciliation with the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the press release and is posted in the For Investors section of our website at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
Just a reminder there may be a slight delay before the question-and-answer session begins due to the web simulcast.
Now for opening remarks I'd like to turn the conference over to Senior Vice President and Investor Relations Bina Thompson.
Please go ahead Bina.
Thank you Danny and good morning everybody and welcome to our first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
With me this morning are Ian Cook Chairman President and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller; and Elaine Paik Treasurer.
We're pleased with how this year has started out with solid organic sales growth and encouraging growth margin improvement despite the major currency headwinds we have been facing.
Our business is on track.
And as Ian said in this morning's press release our anticipated full year earnings per share decline reflects a double-digit increase on a currency-neutral basis of course excluding restructuring charges.
And as you'll hear in more detail shortly we made very good market share progress across categories and divisions.
This is a result of ongoing innovation around the world supported by a healthy level of advertising.
And while our reported advertising was down absolutely versus the year-ago quarter the 10.6% level as a percent of sales is up meaningfully from the fourth quarter 2014 level of 9.7% and compares to a level in last year's first quarter of 11.1% the highest for last year.
And as we've said on many occasions it's the combination of this reported advertising and our very impactful in-store activities which drive volume and market share growth.
And our efforts in the area of efficiency continued to pay off with our Funding the Growth initiatives off to a very good start.
In fact it's the strongest first quarter we've had in that area in some time.
In addition our Global Growth and Efficiency Program is on track and delivering the savings we had projected.
And as referenced in the press release our balance sheet is strong.
Working capital levels are below last year.
So let's turn to the divisions starting with North America.
Our North American business continues to grow.
As mentioned in the press release our year-to-date market share is up in toothpaste and manual toothbrushes.
In addition it's up in mouthwash body wash liquid hand soap and fabric conditioner.
In the toothpaste whitening category the February launch of Colgate Optic White Platinum Express White has added incremental share.
Our year-to-date share for whitening is 5.8% which grew to 6.8% in March.
Part of our successful integrated marketing campaign included the use of YouTube beauty experts to engage our millennial consumer.
Another 2015 toothpaste innovation is Colgate Enamel Health Multi-Protection toothpaste which includes premium packaging.
In the body wash category our year-to-date share is up over a full point to almost 10%.
Our February launches of both Irish Spring Signature For Men and Softsoap Fresh &amp; Glow have contributed to these results.
And our liquid hand soap share is at 31.4% year-to-date with the most recent share at 33.1% largely driven by the Softsoap Fragrant Foaming Collection.
We're also very pleased with our Tom's of Maine business which is growing very strongly.
Innovation as well as increased distribution have played a role.
We're getting good traction with our recent launch of a line of baby products.
Our in-store execution has been excellent including a very impactful Earth Day event.
And you'll hear about more new products later in the year.
So let's turn then to Europe/South Pacific.
Momentum is strong across this division and market shares are growing.
Our strong organic volume growth of 5.5% is the highest in almost 5 years.
Our year-to-date market share is up in toothpaste manual toothbrushes liquid hand soap shower gel and fabric conditioner.
Our year-to-date toothpaste share is at 36.4% up 40 basis points with the most recent reading at 37%.
Toothpaste innovation this quarter includes Colgate Total Daily Repair.
This new product helps reverse early damage for better oral health.
It's an everyday multi-benefit toothpaste with proactive repair benefits and is priced at a premium to the base business.
In the whitening category we're launching Colgate Max White for men with powerful stain removal for whiter teeth.
And more toothpaste innovation is planned for the second half of this year.
Our manual toothbrush share is up 2 full points to 26.9% on a year-to-date basis with the most recent share at 27.2%.
And innovative products such as Colgate 360° and Colgate Slim Soft toothbrushes reported by excellent in-store execution have helped drive these results.
The U.K.
and Australia had particularly good performance with year-to-date toothbrush shares up 660 basis points and 240 basis points respectively clearly strengthening already robust leadership positions.
In the Personal Care category we're also launching a new men's variance Palmolive Men Fresh Care.
This is a 3-in-1 product which combines a face body and hair wash in one convenient package.
We told you last quarter about a new line under the Sanex brand Sanex ADVANCED.
This has had excellent trade acceptance and in-store implementation.
We expect that share results should follow soon.
Our year-to-date fabric conditioner share is up 80 basis points to 27.4% with the most recent period at 27.7%.
This was helped by the launch of Soupline Paradise Sensations which brings new trends to the fabric conditioner category with its powerful bundle impact and sophisticated fragrances.
The pipeline of products moving forward is strong with the relaunch of Soupline Perfect Glide and Magic Moments offering easy ironing and superior long-lasting fragrance.
The new premium look with outstanding on-shelf impact and a high-performing formula commands a premium price.
Turning then to Latin America.
Organic sales growth was strong in this region despite a strong year-ago comparison.
And as elsewhere premium innovation has helped drive results.
Our regional toothpaste share is up 150 basis points to 77.7% on a year-to-date basis with good gains in many countries.
In Brazil we're up 40 basis points year-over-year to 71.7% while our nearest competitor has seen sequential declines in the last 3 bimonthly share periods.
In Mexico we're up 110 basis points to 80.6% and this despite continued promotional pressure from some of our competitors.
In manual toothbrushes premium offerings such as Colgate 360° and Colgate Slim Soft have contributed to share growth in many countries.
In Mexico our leadership share increased 80 basis points to 43.1% on a year-to-date basis widening the gap between our nearest competitor to 150 basis points.
In Colombia our year-to-date share increased 30 basis points to 46.7%.
In bar soap the year has started strong with the division holding market leadership at 30.7%.
Both equities Palmolive and Protex continued to be the #1 and #2 brands across Latin America.
And we achieved record high shares in Mexico Colombia and Guatemala.
Our market-leading fabric conditioner business in Mexico expanded its market share by 50 basis points to 47.2% on a year-to-date basis.
Newly launched Suavitel Aroma Intense achieved a 1.4% share in the direct trade in the first quarter.
And a new smaller base business size helped compete with low-priced local competitors in the bodega retail environment.
Innovation in Latin America continues this quarter across categories.
To build on our success in the whitening category we are launching Luminous White Advanced toothpaste in Brazil.
This is Colgate's most advanced whitening toothpaste which intensifies the white of your teeth 3 shades whiter.
Its unique formula contains the same ingredient dentists use and you can feel it working while you brush.
As a companion product we will offer Colgate 360° Luminous White toothbrush with stain-erasing cups and a 2x whitening action.
In the mid-tier segment and as a companion to our Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection plus Neutrazucar toothpaste we are relaunching Colgate Zig Zag Maximum Cavity Protection toothbrush.
The product has multi-angled bristles and a flexible neck which help with plaque removal.
And in the Personal Care category we have just launched a new line under the Protex brand.
Protex Complete 12 body wash hand soap and bar soap providing long-lasting antibacterial protection.
Turning then to Asia.
As you've seen organic sales performance in this region was somewhat muted this quarter.
But going forward we have a full pipeline of new products to reignite growth.
In India our toothpaste share is up 30 basis points to 54.6% on a year-to-date basis fueled by the launch of Colgate Active Salt and Colgate Max Fresh.
In the Philippines our toothpaste share increased 120 basis points to 60.9% with the most recent read at 61.2%.
Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection toothpaste has achieved almost a 3% share of that market.
Our manual toothbrush shares increased in 5 of 10 countries around the region with our divisional year-to-date share at 29.9% down modestly from the year-ago period but still the market leading position.
And we continue to grow our mouthwash business.
Our regional share is up 30 basis points to 24% on a year-to-date basis.
In India Colgate Plax Active Salt and Colgate Plax Visible White helped drive our market share up 100 basis points to 18.2% while in the Philippines Colgate Plax Jasmine Tea was a major driver of a 220 basis point increase to 26.8% with the most recent read at 27.9%.
And in the second quarter the innovation continues.
In toothpaste we will launch Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief Repair &amp; Prevent which repairs the sensitive areas of teeth and with regular use provides lasting protection to prevent sensitivity from returning.
In the base sensitivity line comes Colgate Sensitive with Sensifoam to reach all areas of the teeth.
For the Thai market we're launching Colgate Salt Charcoal.
And as you know charcoal is an attractive ingredient to consumers in this region based on local insights.
In manual toothbrushes we've just introduced Colgate Slim Soft Gold Charcoal toothbrush with less than 0.01 millimeters slim tip antibacterial bristles for deep but gentle cleaning.
And we're extending charcoal to the value portion of our toothbrush business with Colgate Zig Zag Charcoal toothbrush.
In personal care in Thailand we will launch a line of soap body wash and hand soap Protex Omega 3 body wash with Omega 3 essential oil and which washes away 99.9% of bacteria while keeping your skin feeling moisturized.
Also in that market we will introduce Protex Intimate Care feminine wash the bundle now selling in Brazil.
Turning to Africa/Eurasia.
Organic sales in this region were strong building on the momentum we saw as we exited 2014.
And innovation has driven these good results across categories.
Our regional toothpaste share is up 90 basis points year-to-date to 33.7% with market share increases in virtually every country.
Our share in Russia was up 160 basis points; in South Africa 120 basis points; and in Turkey 130 basis points.
Similarly our toothbrush share increased everywhere with the exception of East-West Africa.
Shares in Russia South Africa and Turkey increased 170 basis points 90 basis points and 50 basis points respectively.
Our bar soap share was also up across the region up 290 basis points year-to-date.
In South Africa our share increased 180 basis points to 32.4% thanks to the new products we told you about in previous quarters: Protex Men and Protex African Therapy.
And more innovation is planned for this quarter.
In toothpaste we will be launching Colgate Optic White Whiten and Restore.
The formula with an active mineral complex and fresh mint flavor provides 1 shade whiter teeth in 1 week while helping to restore enamel strength.
And the consumer can have the confidence of always being able to look her best without compromising the health of her mouth.
In Russia following on the success of our Altai Herbs bundle we will be introducing Colgate Plax Forte Oak Bark &amp; Fir mouthwash.
Oak Bark &amp; Fir are attractive ingredients to consumers in this part of the world based on local insights.
And in the shower gel category we are adding a new variant to our successful Palmolive Spa Gourmet line Mint Shake with an uplifting mint fragrance and rich creamy formula infused with natural mint extracts that leave your skin feeling pampered.
To build on our success in bar soaps we're launching Protex Complete 12 similar to the bundle launching across Latin America.
And Hill's.
Hill's solid organic sales growth was a good balance between volume and price both here and overseas.
In addition it's encouraging that gross profit margin is up year-over-year.
As you may recall we indicated this would indeed happen despite initial costs associated with reformulation of new and existing products.
And we're pleased that in the U.S.
market retail consumption in the large format retailers is up nicely.
Among the drivers are our new premium Hill's Science Diet offerings which have been supported in-store with impactful displays and are growing faster than the rest of the Hill's Science Diet line.
This quarter we've begun a 10-week turnaround campaign to support Hill's Science Diet Perfect Weight.
The objective here is to educate consumers about pet weight loss creating awareness and buzz around the product to drive trial.
Consumer engagement activities will be both in-store and online.
Hill's Ideal Balance also continued to perform well.
Hill's Ideal Balance Crafted was launched in the first quarter.
This new sub-line with its premium positioning offers authentic ingredients prepared with care.
A full support campaign has included new product kits and feeding trials along with online ratings and reviews.
The packaging and messaging relaunch of our Hill's Prescription Diet line is off to a good start.
Here in the U.S.
it's received excellent feedback from the profession.
The packaging is seen as being more consumer-friendly with increased and clearer descriptive.
And this is now rolling out across Europe.
So in summary we're very pleased with the way 2015 has started out.
The momentum we saw as we exited 2014 has continued in many regions of the world.
Our new product pipeline is full across all categories and our ongoing savings programs as well as our Global Growth and Efficiency Program are providing funds to support that robust innovation.
And as we implement our Global Growth and Efficiency Program our people are becoming even more focused on winning on the ground each and every day.
We look forward to sharing our progress with you as we go forward through the year.
And now Danny I'd like to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Nik Modi with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Ian I was hoping you could just provide us the quick gross margin bridge.
And then the broader question is from a competitive standpoint just curious if you could just give us a State of the Union on what you're seeing in some of the key markets in terms of some of the competitor activity.
Are you seeing a scale back in some promotion -- promotional spend especially in some of those markets where one of your competitors has really been making a push over the last 2 to 3 years? Okay Nik.
Happy to do the gross profit walk-through.
So if you take our first quarter the first quarter of 2014 the gross margin was 58.6%.
We pick up a positive benefit of pricing at 1 percentage point.
Between Funding the Growth and a very modest contribution from restructuring we pick up another 170 basis points.
And as Bina said in her remarks you can see that that places us with a far quicker start on our Funding the Growth in 2015 than we had prior year because of the intense focus we have put there.
Material prices were a headwind of 230 basis points and that was almost wholly a transaction impact.
There's another 10 basis points of other and that gets you to the current year of gross profit of 58.9%.
We were very pleased with the 30 basis points improvement we had in the first quarter.
Indeed many external views saw our gross profit coming down because of that foreign exchange transaction impact.
And we like to think that the balance we're finding between pricing between Funding the Growth between Global Growth and Efficiency driving our innovation and meeting competitive marketplace needs is allowing us to grow the top line while at the same time increasing our gross margin.
And as we said on the last call and it remains true for this year we expect our gross margin to continue to build across the year.
And we still plan to expand that gross margin on the year between 50 and 100 basis points.
So I think that captures the gross margin approach and thinking from our side.
In terms of the marketplaces I wouldn't say we have seen anything holistically different.
We see in pockets increased promotional activity.
We see in other pockets increased couponing activity.
And we see in other locations frankly an easing in the promotional environment.
We do see quite a lot of pullback from our principal competitors in media advertising across the first quarter of the year.
And I would say our reaction to it is as our reaction has always been we balance between driving trial for our innovation and meeting promotional needs when they are there but at the same time growing and growing our gross margin.
And that continues to be our view of the external environment promotionally for the balance of the year.
And we'll take our next question from Dara Mohsenian.
Research Division</strong> So Ian pricing decelerated sequentially on a year-over-year basis in Q1 versus Q4 and I'm just trying to get a sense of what drove that.
Are you seeing a more competitive manufacturer environment in terms of promotion as you just talked about? Is it more related to consumer demand elasticity? I guess I would have expected it to build giving greater FX.
And then can you talk a little bit about plans in the balance of the year to cover any additional FX pressure? Yes.
We were actually quite pleased with the pricing in the first quarter.
You're right.
As always you're balancing your speed of response with what is there in the marketplace and the consumer.
We do expect our pricing to build across the year.
As you correctly say we use pricing along with other vehicles to offset that transaction impact of foreign exchange.
But I return to the point that I think we're working very hard to maintain that right balance so we can invest to grow market share and drive the top line while increasing our gross margin.
And we feel we started the year in a good place with that 30 margin point expansion knowing that pricing takes a little bit of time to catch up with the foreign exchange impact.
So more pricing across the balance of the year and reiterating the plan to expand our gross margin again across the balance of the year to increase by 50 to 100 basis points for the full year.
We'll take our next question from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A little bit of a follow-up on Dara's question Ian which is more about the mechanics of pricing and especially when you have this much volatility.
And so I guess how do we look at sort of the time frame that it takes to react to some of this emerging market currency volatility in the transactional FX? Is it something where the pricing goes in relatively quickly? Or do you sort of have to wait for things to stabilize as we look at sort of how to balance again some of the wild movements in the currency and whether or not if you price for transactional and then the currency moves in your favor there's an additional spread that works in your favor? Yes.
It's -- in some situations where the marketplace change is significant and dire we along with others tend to take significant pricing steps very quickly.
Russia would be a very clear example.
In others we are more balanced in doing it.
If I broaden the discussion a little bit and you think about selling price increases in fact our selling price increases in the quarter were between 4% and 5%.
Then with some of the activities we have at the store level we spent some of that back.
So you end up with the net pricing number which is what you see at 2.4% and on balance between the two still grew gross profit by 30 basis points and kept advertising at a healthy level of 10.6%.
So that's what we tend to be juggling with as we balance gross pricing with how we execute in the marketplace.
And our responsiveness will be as the market dictates and our balance between the gross and the effective pricing will reflect also marketplace needs.
But again that balance will see our gross margin expand as the year unfolds by 50 to 100 basis points which sees us with our traditional advertising up absolutely and as a percent of sales on the year.
From Citi Research we have Wendy Nicholson.
Research Division</strong> My question was on Hill's.
And it looks to me that the operating margin is kind of back to close to an all-time high level which is awesome.
But over the last few years it seems like when margin has crept up then you soon thereafter lose share and there's kind of been a trade-off.
And I'm wondering number one if you can comment on that and whether there's been more structural change so that we really should think that a 27-plus percent operating margin is sustainable for Hill's combined with an outlook for top line growth.
And also as the Hill's business sort of expands I know you've entered some new markets like Eastern Europe and Latin America I assume you're not opening up manufacturing yet in those places.
So is there a risk that there is more transactional cost to the business as currencies move and you don't have local manufacturing for that business specifically? Yes.
The Hill's consumption is very strong.
And I think all of these are a balance between the value of the consumer believes that they are paying for and the gross margin that that delivers.
So Bina went through much of the innovation that we can so far talk about on the Hill's business thus far this year and a large part of that is accretive from a gross margin point of view.
So we're creating innovation that is margin-accretive that the consumer is attracted to.
So you will remember when we went through the process of turning Hill's around we said one of the key strategic things we wanted to do was to make the innovation flow in Hill's sustainable not episodic.
And we have that now.
So yes we do believe and it was part of our plan when we made the investment in gross margin that we would return to historical levels.
Now from a local country expansion point of view we're not in any new markets compared to the emerging markets that we had already been in like Russia like Brazil like Mexico those types of marketplace.
And indeed we do have a transaction burden because we don't make Hill's products in Russia for example.
But all of that is based into our business plan.
We make the same pricing adjustments to address the transaction impact on Hill's as we do for the Colgate business.
And maybe strategically down the road one day if we were to invest in capacity of course that would give us further margin improvement on those businesses.
The other comment I would make is we are finding with Hill's and our engagement with the Hill's consumer that the emotional connection is so rich that you can engage with that consumer through digital vehicles almost entirely because they will spend extraordinarily (sic) [extraordinary] time finding out information and they will spend extraordinary time with Hill's representatives to take care of their pets.
So with that business in particular we're building a very efficient model of targeting and reaching the consumer given the emotional investment they have in the category of the brand and of course their pet.
So long story short we think it's sustainable.
From Goldman Sachs we have Jason English.
Research Division</strong> I'm looking at Asia Africa/Eurasia combined.
Sort of what you used to report as Greater Asia and Africa.
And the organic sales growth blended of 2 1 [ph] is the weakest we've seen since the third quarter of 2014.
And it looks like it's really coming on softness in Asia.
I noticed in the press release you referenced to volume declines in China.
And I think last quarter you said the destock was behind you.
So I was hoping you could just drill a little bit deeper into what's happening in the Asia segment why price sort of rolled negative why volume is still relatively soft and more specifically what's happening in China.
Yes.
Fair questions Jason.
And obviously your math is correct.
And indeed the country that bears comment is China.
And so let me make a few remarks around China because that really is the country the geography to discuss.
I think the first thing to say is that you will remember we were one of the first to recognize that trade destocking was occurring in the second quarter last year.
And we said that destocking process would be completed by the end of 2014 and the trade inventories would be back to balance.
And that has happened.
The inventory destocking is completed in China.
If you look at our consumption in China which is to say the consumer's purchases of our products our quarter 1 consumption was up a healthy mid-single digits in line with the marketplace.
Our January February market share was up meaningfully from the fourth quarter of 2014 when the destocking ended.
And indeed our local sales in China for the first quarter were up behind that strong consumption meaningfully fourth quarter to first quarter.
Now the comparison with the first quarter of 2014 is down due to the comparison with what was our highest quarter in 2014 which again you will remember was the quarter before the down-stocking occurred.
So what I'm saying is our consumption is leading our sales back up.
Our market share and that consumption predict continued growth in sales.
And I think most importantly the second quarter in China is off to a brisk start.
So consumption is good and that future growth for that business will continue to build.
We have Olivia Tong with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> First question is just on pricing in North America.
It was up for the first time in probably about 2 years.
So is the couponing starting to lap? Is competition improving? And then also specifically on pricing in Brazil.
Is -- are you planning to raise prices? And I ask in the context of Brazil volume having declined in the March quarter.
And then finally on the organic sales outlook for the full year.
With the first quarter sort of at the low end of your longer-term outlook in the sort of 4% to 7% range can you just talk through that a little bit? Yes.
Well in the U.S.
obviously we were pleased with the pricing pickup in the first quarter.
And yes I would say there has been some modulation in the promotion activity.
And indeed you will remember the first quarter for us last year was the quarter in which we had launched many many of our new products.
And of course the couponing behind the trial for those new products would have been in the first quarter of 2014.
So there's a timing aspect to that as well.
We have indeed taken pricing in Brazil.
But I would comment on Brazil that it is a different story to China and that the marketplace economic activity and indeed our categories worsened since the last time we spoke in January.
I don't think that's new news to everyone.
It has been widely reported.
Pleasingly as Bina said our market share approaching 72% is up year-on-year.
In fact when I was down there 2 weeks ago the General Manager said with great pride that it was the highest market share in 19 years.
But who's looking? And so our shares continue to be strong i.e.
we're growing faster than the market growth.
And as you would imagine given our experience in Latin America we're doing a very shall we say attentive job of managing our cost structure.
But I think it's fair to say that we should expect and indeed we are planning for a slower Brazil marketplace for the balance of this year.
Now the organic growth outcome I think you can do your own math.
We provided a range of 4% to 7% because of the choppiness and volatility in our world.
And if -- to put that in comparison that 4% is up against the highest quarter of last year at 6.5%.
So the compares ease a little bit as we go forward.
And if the China growth returns the way we expect it to it will clearly move us up that range.
So we're still comfortable with the 4% to 7% range and we'll see how it unfolds quarter-by-quarter.
And we'll take Steve Powers from UBS.
Research Division</strong> So I think previously -- this is a little bit of housekeeping maybe.
But I think you had called out FX as a 7% 7.5% headwind to the top line for the year a few months ago and a 10% headwind on the bottom line from a translation standpoint.
And I apologize if I missed it but could you just call out specifically how that's evolved as you see it? Because I'm wondering if the effective 2- to 4-point reduction in all-in EPS is 100% FX versus other factors on the margin like Brazil which you mentioned.
And if I could squeeze in a related follow-up.
What would trigger -- on FX what would trigger a move to the SIMADI rate in Venezuela for you? And how incrementally impactful would you expect it to be on kind of a pro forma 12-month basis? Because it just feels like it's essentially a matter of time before that needs to happen.
Yes.
Well to take the second point which is housekeeping you will find that broken out in our Q.
So we actually provide the calculation where they're a requirement that we do that which is to say what would the impact on the business be if we were required to go to the SIMADI rate.
The foreign exchange impact on the year is around 10% more or less.
It is more on the bottom line as it was in the first quarter.
I think top to bottom was 10% and 14% on the first quarter.
So it's about a 10% impact on the year.
There are no other factors affecting our guidance other than and I stress the translation impact of foreign exchange because as you know well we seek to cover the transaction impact because that is what leads to operating results.
And we'll take Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the growth opportunity in Home Care and Personal Care? Only because like Oral Care is sort of indisputable given your market shares.
But it seems like in those categories there's a lot more local competition and commodities are rolling over.
I look at some of the data I'm not sure the syndicated data is great but like you look at Home Care in Venezuela and it was like the business in bolivars was up sort of 50% year-over-year in 2014 versus '13.
So I'm just wondering what you think of the outlook there to have that continue to grow and then maybe it's an opportunity because people are exiting the market.
So maybe I'm looking at it the wrong way.
And since you guys are the last guys standing maybe it's better than I would have otherwise thought.
So any thoughts would be appreciated.
Yes.
Well I don't like being categorized as the last guy standing.
And Venezuela is a unique case.
So I don't know what data you're seeing Bill but our Home Care business is not a focus for us in Venezuela.
And indeed material availability is modest in that business.
I think as you heard Bina talk we're quite pleased with our Home Care and our Personal Care business.
Yes there are more competitors in Personal Care than we find in Oral Care.
But if you take Personal Care against the company Personal Care organic grew around 3% in the first quarter quite healthy growth.
And more competitors means the marketplace is more fragmented and therefore you can garner progress because there are simply more players in the space.
And I think some of the examples Bina quoted are very good examples of where we're doing precisely that in emerging markets as well as developed markets.
So no we still think there is opportunity for growth in those categories and we're going after it.
We'll take Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick clarification.
I just missed something and then to the core question here.
I apologize.
So you said FX will be a 10% impact on the bottom line.
But in the...
No on the top line.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> On the top line.
Okay fine.
Sorry.
I missed that.
Okay.
If you go to kind of the pricing and dig down a little bit further in kind of 2 buckets one is Asia at negative 1% and then Europe negative 4.5% how do you think that goes going forward? So do you think that kind of negative pressure will continue on those marketplaces where it's going down? And then on where the pricing has been driving your overall pricing so Latin America and Africa/Eurasia both in kind of 7.5% 8% range.
Both of those as you comment are driven by highly inflationary areas.
So Venezuela as an example in Latin America call it 50% or 60% inflation it's 3% of your business overall 10% of that region Africa/Eurasia Russia obviously the driver there or one of the potential drivers there.
And thereto what do you think the sustainability is of that? And if you were to pull out Venezuela and Russia in those pricings what would it be? Sustainably both of the negative so the bad stuff and then potentially the good stuff on pricing.
Wow.
Where to start? The -- if we take pricing overall and you may have missed the response we gave a little bit earlier we continue to believe we have pricing power.
And therefore the growth pricing we've been able to take is around 4.5%.
And we have reinvested some of that in the trade spending activity to grow market share which along with the traditional advertising we have invested have continued to be productive.
We are growing market shares broadly and we are seeing our gross margin expand.
We think in terms of the pricing in Africa/Eurasia and Latin America that that is sustainable.
We're not again going to talk about Venezuela specifically other than to say when we got pricing in the fourth quarter of last year so did many of our competitors.
And regardless of what the inflation is in a country in Venezuela's case pricing is controlled by the government.
So we don't have the flexibility to follow the inflation with self-directed pricing in Venezuela.
So Venezuela is all rollover in 2015.
I would also say that we have very broad-based pricing increases across all of Latin America.
You forgot Hill's where I think we've got a very good balance between effective pricing and volume growth on that business and beginning to see the gross margin build back nicely which was clearly one of our objectives.
The U.S.
North America pricing possibility that will always be a bit choppy given the timing of couponing behind new products and the fact that couponing goes into price.
And I think there will continue to be pricing pressure in Europe but our expectation is that it will ease over the balance of the year compared to the first quarter level.
Now in Asia specific to China we made some corrective pricing actions on a couple of our businesses which are now baked in for the full year.
I think that was responding to all the questions you asked Ali at least I hope so.
And we'll take our next question from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> And forgive me if you've touched on this.
There's a lot of stuff here.
But advertising growth for the full year do you expect the actual recorded number to be up in local currency and in dollars would be the first thing.
And then just on China there's been a move to premiumization in many categories and toothpaste is one of them.
The local toothpaste I think is a premium product.
Are you doing anything -- I know your Darlie brand is very successful but within the Colgate brand are you doing things to premiumize and try to take advantage of that? Yes.
Yes we are.
I mean on the advertising side when we look at advertising spending for the year we see on a ratio basis an increase year-on-year.
In local currency terms it will certainly be up.
It will certainly be up.
The -- from a China point of view you're absolutely right.
There is a fair degree of premiumization going on in China and we indeed are taking advantage of that.
When you put China in a longer context over the last 8 years we built our China business from about a 29 share to a market-leading 33 34 share 34 share January February this year.
If you look at our principal multinational competitor they've gone from 25 down to under 15.
And the other multinational competitor has gone down from mid-teens to high single digits.
And that premium local brand you mentioned is what is taking up the slack.
So we're continuing to hold market position quite nicely.
And indeed we are adopting a premiumization strategy.
And we'll take our next question from Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ian you alluded to kind of the pullback in marketing from the competition earlier.
And there's been some talk about your largest competitor meaningfully pulling back on kind of media spend over the next few months or few quarters.
How do you look at that? Is that some -- an opportunity to keep the foot on the pedal? Or is there just too much marketing and advertising out there? Maybe everybody can benefit a little bit.
The -- I would say when we think about our -- I'm now talking the traditional advertising media.
I would say that our focus is more on what is necessary to reach engage and convince our consumers to stay with our brands from an emotional point of view and to try our innovation.
That's the purpose.
And that dictates a certain reach and frequency for your traditional media.
These days it also requires a mix between the traditional and the digital and other ways of connecting with people.
If some of these pullbacks continue to be as we have seen them maybe it does create a little bit more of a rational opportunity in some markets.
But we'll track that for a while before we make any significant changes.
From Raymond James we have Joe Altobello.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions on SG&amp;A.
I guess first in terms of overhead a little surprised it was up this quarter.
Was that all FX-driven? And then secondly if you could remind us what you're expecting in terms of total restructuring savings this year.
Yes.
The -- you're right on the overhead Joe.
In fact total dollar expenses were down.
So the reason the ratio is up is a combination of timing and dollar-denominated expenses against a weakening foreign exchange-driven top line.
As to your second point I think we have in our K -- I think we're talking 65 to 75 after-tax for the year -- sorry that was the restructuring.
And we have Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I feel like most of this has actually been covered.
So I'm just going to leave it alone and let you proceed to the next person.
We'll go ahead and move on to Eddy Hargreaves with Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> Two questions actually.
Sorry to harp on about the advertising spend.
Harp away harp away.
Research Division</strong> You answered the last person who asked you this in terms of ratios but I think what you were saying implying that you think that worldwide advertising investment will be up for the full year in absolute terms just is down 10% to $430 million in the quarter.
If that's right I'm slightly surprised because it implies quite a step-up in the next 3 quarters given your overall sort of commentary about the media environment.
Perhaps you could square that circle somewhat.
Maybe I misspoke.
Let me answer the first one first and then you can ask the second one so we don't lose the point.
It will be up in local currency on a currency-neutral basis.
And it will be up on a ratio basis.
The dollars will be broadly in line maybe modestly down year-on-year.
And your second question? Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes.
And the other one was there's been some sort of comment earlier on in the questioning about the North American pricing looking a bit better.
You obviously said that it tends to be choppy.
But if we look at the overall organic performance top line in North America it looks as weak as it's been for quite a few quarters sort of looking back across the spreadsheet as it were.
Perhaps you could sort of give some sense of how you see the North American consumer environment generally given potential oil price-based benefits to consumers that type of thing.
Are you fairly confident that the environment will look better in H2 than H1 for example? Who knows? I mean the first quarter economic numbers were just revised down.
I think there is an underlying confidence that the U.S.
economy is on the turn but I think it's a slow turn.
Frankly our consumption in the U.S.
is ahead of the consolidated growth in the categories we're in that U.S.
category growth is between 1% and 2%.
We're slap-banging that.
And as Bina commented in her remarks our market shares are up in North America.
So we're quite pleased with that.
And we will be poised to take advantage of the growth should it accelerate because we have a rich array of innovation to bring to the marketplace.
And we'll take our next question from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> My question actually has to do with Brazil.
Is it that -- we heard from your competitors L'Oréal Unilever that category growth was flat in terms of volume.
But your volumes are actually down.
And then you're telling us that you're gaining share.
So then the question is is it that the calculation has to do because people are trading down within Colgate's portfolio and that's why you are getting negative volumes.
Or is it that at the end of the day you are overrepresented in channels that are losing market share say large format retailers and that's how we reconcile the fact that you have strong shares but actually your volumes are negative which your competitors are not posting negative volumes? The -- I guess all these countries have to be a balance between volume and price given the transaction impact of the foreign exchange.
So in Brazil we took pricing and we took pricing against volume to your point to establish the pricing in the marketplace.
At the same time because of the economic decline several of the categories did go negative in volume terms.
So not all the categories were positive from a volume point of view.
The other thing one has to say and I spent 3 days down there not so long ago is there is quite a bit of short-term disruption in the marketplace.
The economy slows down.
You have the various scandals unfolding day after day.
Interest rates go up.
And what happens is the indirect retailers take a step back and wait to see how everything is going to settle out.
So there is an added element I would say of short-term hesitation in terms of the way the market would normally line up.
But as I said earlier our focus is going to be on growing market share controlling our costs expanding gross margin and weathering what we believe will be a slower Brazil environment for the balance of this year.
And we'll move on to our next question from Mark Astrachan with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So two questions.
One just wanted to get an update on the Tom's of Maine expansion and sort of your thoughts thus far bigger opportunity smaller opportunity than maybe you had thought originally.
And then housekeeping is there any impact on cash usage CapEx share repo dividend et cetera from FX? The Tom's business is doing very well.
The first quarter organic growth was up double digits.
We have as you know an extremely strong position in Oral Care toothpaste in the United States over 50 market share in the channels that are unique to Tom's.
And that's why as Bina said we have taken the opportunity now that we have consolidated our position in toothpaste to extend the Tom's name into the baby skin health space which we think will be a big opportunity for Tom's going forward.
As I have said before this is not a marketing accelerated business.
You have to win consumers one at a time and be patient.
But once they are Tom's consumers they're Tom's consumers forever.
And they almost pledge allegiance to the brand which we may have them do one day.
In terms of cash usage no major change in CapEx or repurchase.
No major change.
So listen I understand those are all the questions on the line.
I thank you very much for your interest in the company.
And as always I thank Colgate people around the world for making it all happen.
Talk to you next time.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's presentation.
We appreciate everyone's participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Company's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference.
This call is being recorded and is being simulcast live at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
Today's conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
So for information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements on Forward-looking Statements.
This conference call will also include a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures which differ from our results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
We will discuss organic sales growth which is net sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and divestitures.
We will also discuss gross profit gross profit margin SG&amp;A SG&amp;A as a percent of net sales operating profit operating profit margin net income and earnings-per-share on a diluted basis excluding the impact of the items described in the press release.
A full reconciliation with corresponding GAAP measures is included in the press release and is posted in the For Investors section of our website at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
Just a reminder there may be a slight delay before the question-and-answer session begin due to the web simulcast.
Now for opening remarks I'd like to turn the call over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Bina Thompson.
Please go ahead Bina.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Jessica.
Good morning everybody and welcome to our second quarter 2015 earnings release conference call.
With me this morning are Ian Cook Chairman President and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller; and Elaine Paik Treasurer.
We're very pleased with the continued strong organic sales growth in our business across all divisions.
In fact the pace of such growth has accelerated nearly everywhere.
Innovation continues to play an important role in our successful array of new products across categories has resulted in strong and growing market shares.
As Ian said in the press release our robust organic sales growth is particularly notable in the face of challenging macroeconomic conditions in many markets; however foreign exchange continues to be an even more significant headwind and that is continuing into the third quarter.
And as you know we're diligent in taking pricing to offset currency-related transaction costs and are pleased that even with the pricing we have taken there is still a good balance with volumes.
Our savings programs are delivering excellent results both our ongoing Funding the Growth initiatives as well as our Global Growth and Efficiency program.
Cash generation is solid and our working capital is low down year-over-year.
So we think we're making good progress in 2015 and have good plans in place to keep up the momentum.
So let's turn to the divisions; starting with North America; we're pleased with the solid organic sales growth in North America this quarter and acceleration from the first quarter 2015 growth driven by a solid volume increase of 3%.
And as mentioned in the press release U.S.
market shares are strong across many categories.
Innovation continues to play a critical role; although we also see strengths in the base business.
For instance Colgate Total toothpaste continues to maintain a market share of around 10%.
In the first quarter we launched Colgate Total mouthwash for gum health which allowed us to drive the regimen concept in-store with a claim of 45% stronger healthier gums versus non-antibacterial mouthwash.
The mouthwash is off to a great start.
It's the number one new item at a major U.S.
retailer.
In toothbrushes our newest addition to the Colgate 360° line is Colgate 360° Optic White Platinum.
This has been incremental in the line.
Colgate 360° has come from a 13% share for full-year 2011 to a 19.3% share of the total category year-to-date.
And as we said in the press release our leadership manual toothbrush here is now well over 40% at 41.4%.
We're particularly pleased with the performance of our Tom's of Maine business.
Sales are growing healthy double-digits with the strongest growth in our top 10 retailers.
With the expansion of our shopper marketing initiative we achieved our first-ever end aisle displays in many customers during our well executed April Earth Month integrated marketing campaign.
Our new Tom's baby line is off to a very encouraging start with wide acceptance across retail channels.
The line is receiving positive online consumer reviews and the body lotion and hair body wash products are within the top SKUs ranking in selling ahead of many other big and established baby brands.
The fastest-growing segment within fabric conditioners is scent boosters.
We launched Suavitel Fragrance Pearls in-wash scent boosters in March of this year with the claim of five times longer-lasting fragrance versus detergent alone.
Distribution continues to build within major accounts and our year-to-date share in the overall category is at 18.7% up 70 basis points with our second quarter share at a record 19.5%.
Looking ahead in the third quarter we'll be launching Colgate Total Daily Repair toothpaste which helps reverse early damage for better oral health and goes beyond promoting traditional benefits to a new consumer relevant space with the best testing Colgate Total concept ever.
And as you can imagine we'll be backed by a full support plan including TV PR and social media professional and multicultural outreach and of course in-store shopper activity.
As you know in the second half of 2014 we launched Colgate Enamel Health toothpaste.
In the first quarter this year we added Colgate Enamel Health Multi-Protection toothpaste to the Enamel footprint.
And now in the third quarter we're adding Colgate Enamel Health mouthwash to provide a complete regimen solution.
This new mouthwash helps replenish natural calciums reverses enamel softening and helps prevent cavities all with a great-tasting flavor.
And finally in the Kids' segment we're launching the first-ever regimen portfolio with Minions branding across the toothpaste toothbrush and mouthwash categories.
Turning then to Europe/South Pacific; we're pleased with the acceleration in organic sales growth in this region from the first quarter.
Continued innovation has contributed to the results.
Consequently our regional year-to-date market shares are up in toothpaste manual toothbrushes mouth rinse body wash liquid hand soap underarm protection and fabric conditioner.
The regional launch of our premium priced Colgate Max White One Optic toothpaste has been incremental to our share in the whitening category and has helped to increase overall toothpaste share in France Italy and Spain.
In addition in France a strong integrated marketing campaign has helped grow our elmex SENSITIVE toothpaste business in the mass channel.
Growth in our manual toothbrush business has been driven by innovation and excellent in-store execution.
The favorable gap between us and our nearest competitor has widened over the last five years from just 70 basis points to almost 7 full points on a year-to-date basis.
Across Europe our manual toothbrush share is up 150 basis points to 24.6% year-to-date.
And in Australia our share is up 170 basis points to 63.3% year-to-date with the most recent read at 63.8%.
And we told you last quarter about an exciting new innovation in Personal Care Sanex Advanced.
This is off to a very good start.
The line of body washes and underarm deodorant has been incremental to the business and in the last month our body wash share has met or exceeded our goal in France Spain and Belgium.
Innovation continues in the second half of 2015.
In the toothpaste category we're just now launching Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief Repair and Prevent toothpaste.
This premium-priced offering repairs sensitive areas of the teeth and prevents further sensitivity for instant and lasting relief.
An extensive shopper marketing program will support a complete re-launch of our Colgate 360° manual toothbrushes which provide superior cleaning for a whole mouth clean versus an ordinary flat trimmed toothbrush.
This premium-priced line which includes Colgate 360° Expert White and Colgate 360° for men should help continue the excellent momentum we've seen in this category.
And in our body wash business we'll be launching Palmolive Gourmet body washes a line of creamy body butter washes with fragrant ingredients including vanilla chocolate and peach which have already been very successful in the Africa/Eurasia division.
Moving on to Latin America.
We're pleased with a continued strong organic sales growth in this region.
Two of our largest subsidiaries in the region Mexico and Brazil delivered solid performance and of particular note with Brazil where organic sales growth accelerated nicely from the first quarter.
Market shares for Latin America increased year-to-date in toothpaste shampoo liquid cleaners dish washing liquid and fabric conditioners.
Our regional toothpaste share is at 75.7% year-to-date up 70 basis points and the highest level in four years despite competitive entries during that time period.
In Brazil our year-to-date share is up 40 basis points to almost 72% while in Mexico our year-to-date share increased 70 basis points to 81%.
Our Home Care business in Mexico is extremely strong; dish liquid shares are at 52.2% year-to-date up almost 3 points; liquid cleaner shares are at 33.5% year-to-date up 80 basis points; and fabric conditioner shares are at 48.6% year-to-date up almost 2 points.
In the dish category the launch of Axion Complete exceeded expectations.
And our very successful Thank You Mom campaign behind Suavitel our leading fabric conditioner helped to further strengthen that brand equity.
Our innovation pace will continue in the second half.
Colgate Luminous White Advanced toothpaste will be rolled out throughout the region.
This is Colgate's most advanced whitening toothpaste available in Latin America.
It intensifies the white of your teeth three shades whiter with a unique formula that uses the same ingredient dentists use.
Accompanying the toothpaste will be re-launches of Colgate Luminous White mouthwash and toothbrush.
In the Personal Care category we will be expanding the distribution of Protex Complete 12 a range of bar soap liquid hand soap and body wash that provides long-lasting antibacterial protection and offers 12 times more protection than non-antibacterial bar soap.
And in Home Care we'll be introducing a rinse-free formula to our base Suavitel fabric conditioner business currently available only in premium offerings which should further enhance our strong number-one position.
Moving to Asia.
We're pleased with the acceleration of organic sales growth in Asia from the first quarter.
In particular our business in China is performing well and back to solid growth.
As we said in the press release we maintain our strong leadership in toothpaste across the region.
In India our year-to-date share is stable at 54.8% with the most recent read at 55.1%.
And in China we hold the number-one position at almost 34% year-to-date.
Our toothbrush business in the Philippines is strong and growing in the Premium and Super Premium segments.
Our year-to-date share is at a record 57.4% up 70 basis points with the most recent read at 58.3%.
Our Colgate 360° Charcoal Gold toothbrush first launched in China has been successful in this market as well.
Our regional share in mouthwash is at a record 23.5% year-to-date up 60 basis points with particularly strong performance in the Philippines and Hong Kong.
And as elsewhere more new products are planned for the balance of the year.
In China we will be re-launching our base Colgate Anticavity toothpaste in both the whitening and all-around anti-cavity segment.
Elsewhere in the region we're excited about our Colgate Total Charcoal Deep Clean toothpaste gel which has a unique antibacterial formula that reduces bacteria on 100% of your mouth surfaces and provides 12-hour protection for a healthier mouth.
In toothbrushes we're introducing a line extension of our Colgate Natural Essences toothbrush which has lotus-infused bristles.
In addition across the region we're launching Colgate Kids Spiderman and Barbie toothbrushes with 0.01 millimeter slim tip bristles.
Africa/Eurasia.
As elsewhere significant currency headwinds affected our financial results in this division.
The good organic sales growth of 4% was price-driven as we took pricing actions to help offset transaction costs.
However with negative 21.5% foreign exchange across the division we couldn't recoup all the losses.
So it's encouraging that our local businesses are doing well and our market shares are generally solid.
Our regional toothpaste share is up 100 basis points to 32.9% year-to-date with our most recent read at 33%.
Notably our share in Russia increased 2 full points to 33.6% year-to-date with the most recent read at a record-high 34.1%.
Both Colgate Total and Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection plus Sugar Acid Neutralizer toothpastes have performed very well.
Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection was launched in early 2015 and it's already reached almost 1 full share point nationally and has garnered 1.2 share points in the modern trade.
In Turkey our share increased 120 basis points to 26.6% year-to-date.
And in South Africa our share was up 60 basis points to 50.3% year-to-date.
Our toothbrush share is up in the 15 countries to 16 countries which represent over 99% of our toothbrush business in the division.
In Russia incremental listings in the country's largest retailer have contributed to year-to-date share increase of 240 basis points to 47.2% with the most recent read at 47.7%.
And in Turkey our very successful Colgate Slim Soft toothbrush has helped grow our share by 150 basis points to 28.3% year-to-date.
Our regional bar soap share is up 290 basis points to 22.6% year-to-date driven by gains in our two top markets; South Africa and Russia.
More innovation is planned for the second half of the year.
We will be refreshing both our base business Sensitive toothpaste as well as launching our Premium Colgate Optic White toothpaste with new and more impactful graphics.
In South Africa where we have a strong Protex business we will introduce Protex Complete 12 ourselves which provide 12 times more germ protection and offers long-lasting anti-germ action.
And finally Hill's; we're pleased with Hill's strong organic sales performance in the quarter.
The business is on track and innovation is driving both the domestic and international business.
Our unique weight-loss product Prescription Diet Metabolic Canine and Feline food is gaining share globally.
We recently introduced a stew product along with the dry and that has accelerated growth in the wet segment.
The product comes in a new global packaging design and has been supported with a global testimonial campaign as well as print and online media.
Adding to this successful innovation in April of this year was Prescription Diet Metabolic Plus Mobility Canine food and Metabolic Plus Urinary Feline food.
These new foods which are nutritionally formulated for concurrent health conditions have been the primary focus of our 2015 pet conferences.
Another global success in the Prescription Diet line has been upgrade of our k/d formula for kidney care diet in cats.
Cats with renal conditions typically suffer a loss of appetite so it's difficult to get them to eat the food which will help them improve their conditions.
This product contains our new EAT Technology Enhanced Appetite Trigger which improves appetite while helping to both preserve lean muscle mass and increase energy.
The feedback from vets has been excellent and we've received excellent testimonials from clients and the veterinary healthcare teams.
As you expect we have more innovation planned for the balance of the year.
To keep the momentum in our Prescription Diet business in the third quarter in the U.S.
we're beginning to roll out a Prescription Diet i/d sensitive the first product in the GI segment for food sensitivity free of wheat gluten lactose and soy proteins.
A trial program and pet parent guide helps veterinarians and pet parents to see the difference this food makes.
These are part of the complete IMC bundle with trade ads printed and e-detailers as well as in clinic seminars.
A new products in our Science Diet line is Urinary Hairball Control Feline food the only wellness food that addresses the two most common conditions in healthy cats.
The launch this month in the U.S.
is supported to the PetSmart store associate feeding program as well as from Petco's whole pet specialists.
So in summary we are pleased with the way 2015 is progressing particularly in light of the macroeconomic challenges that we and other space around the world.
We're committed to investing in the business in order to drive solid organic sales growth and global market shares.
We will continue to focus on brand building innovation as well as our worldwide productivity programs.
Colgate people around the world are implementing our effective strategies which we expect will allow us to continue to deliver solid results and we look forward to sharing these results as we go through the balance of the year.
And now Jessica that's the end of my prepared remarks.
I'd like to turn it over to questions.
Thank you.
Today's question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically for the telephone audience.
We ask as well that you limit yourself to one question in return that to the queue to allow everyone the opportunity to ask their questions.
We'll now go to Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Sir your line is open.
Hey.
Good morning folks.
Thanks for the question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Jason.
Bina you kind of closed at your prepared remarks talking about continue to focus on driving solid sales growth in market shares and certainly as you ran through the market shares performance it's indeed impressive.
But looking through the belly of the P&amp;L and particularly gross profit the leakage of cost inflation which I know includes FX and I suspect it's predominantly FX-related remains sizable.
How do you wrestle with the balance of getting more price to cover some of that even if it comes at the expense of some near-term market share versus continue to drive the market share? And do you think you're at the right balance right now? Or should you be leaning a little more towards price? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well thanks for the question Jason.
We didn't rehearse this but it's a perfect lead-in to some remarks I was wanting to make to put the gross profit in context tell you to exactly your question how we are thinking about that balance over the rest of the year and then probably I'll just go through the gross margin roll forward to save time somebody else asking the question.
I think to begin with it goes without saying that 2015 is a volatile year and characterized as we all know by economic challenges in many parts of the world and I think very specifically as Bina mentioned a continued strengthening of the U.S.
dollar which accelerated across the second quarter; and in fact has continued to strengthen with the current rates we're seeing into the third quarter.
And so as you put it we are very well pleased with the continued strong; in fact accelerating organic growth in our business and we see that overall having a healthy balance between volume and pricing which is a balance one tries to maintain.
Indeed as we look across each of our four business categories we see a healthy balance between volume and price.
And I would say at this stage that we are still expecting top line organic growth for the full-year to be in the 4% to 7% range.
Now when you step back from that and say what is making that work we think it's three things; our innovation is clearly working and it is broad and it is lined up well for the future.
We believe as we have said before that our commercial programs which is a combination of traditional advertising and trade spending are effective and that together the strength of our innovation and the effectiveness of those commercial programs are seeing market shares growing quite broadly.
So in sum our strategy is delivering strong brand led growth and double-digit EPS increases on a currency neutral basis.
Now as you rightly say our gross margin in the quarter was pressured more than expected despite the fact that we realized good pricing that as you will see when I go through the gross margin roll forward we had good continued delivery of strong Funding the Growth and restructuring savings.
Indeed we offset year-to-date to the dollar impact of the cost increases so far this year.
But in the second quarter specifically we face three unanticipated negative impacts on our material costs.
Obviously we expected a meaningful impact from foreign exchange transaction costs but we did incur the incremental costs of the faster than forecast foreign exchange deterioration.
We saw in several high inflation emerging markets including Venezuela an increase in local material costs in the quarter.
And finally while not a significant factor in the overall gross margin decline we did see additional material cost increases in Venezuela due to a slowdown in dollars received at the official rate.
Now what to do over the balance of the year? As you would expect our planned response is additional pricing; and as I said on the last call as we think about pricing we try and maintain this balance between volume and price.
In some situations Africa Eurasia as Bina mentioned where the exchange impact is so significant we take extremely aggressive action and indeed concede volume to get price and stabilize the business.
In other parts of the world we seek to maintain a balance but regardless of approach additional pricing is planned for the balance of the year.
Clearly we will redouble our focus on Funding the Growth and we intend to take full advantage of generally weakening commodity materials pricing which on the last call we said would really begin to benefit towards the end of the second quarter.
So those are our three responses.
We believe we have planned them in a way that will allow us the maintenance of the top line growth in that 4% to 7% range.
And now our thinking for the year we'll see a sequential improvement in gross margin across the balance of the year; and for the full-year an increase of 10 basis points to 30 basis points.
So let me go from that to the gross profit roll forward.
So if we take the second quarter we start with the prior year at 58.8% we pick up a one point benefit from pricing we pick up 2.2 points of favorable from Funding the Growth and the modest contribution from restructuring.
We take a negative impact of 3.5 points of material prices which traced back to the unexpected impacts I just referenced 20 basis points of other which gets you to the 58.3% in the quarter the 50 basis points decline.
So that's how we're thinking about it.
And as you rightly say one is trying always to find a good balance between the top line growth and the recovery of the ratio in gross margin.
And we think we have that in the plan for the balance of the year.
Thanks for the question.
We'll now go to Steve Powers with UBS.
Great.
Thank you.
A question on Venezuela actually Ian following up on some of things you just mentioned.
Clearly it's a topic that comes up every time you visit with us in one form or another.
You obviously continue to account for CP Venezuela at the SICAD rate.
Many others have either shifted to SIMADI or else chosen to deconsolidate as we saw from P&amp;G this morning.
So I know there are legal and accounting guidelines that dictate the appropriate treatment of Venezuela but I'm wondering how much discretion there is on those matters because at some level it feels like kind of taking the hit so to speak and moving on would provide some benefit especially if your access to dollars is decelerating as you mentioned in response to Jason's question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I wasn't necessarily expecting it as the second question but I think we were expecting a remark or two on Venezuela.
I think the first thing I would say in terms of the breadth of information that we provide on Venezuela we have I think over time been providing increasing disclosure in our Qs and Ks.
And I think you will find that continues to be the case when you read the Q on this quarter.
As may know or you will now know for the first six months of this year Venezuela represented about 4% of our revenue and 2% of base business operating profit for the six months ended in June.
And we do provide in the Q the detail of the net monetary assets that we hold of just over $600 million and the non-monetary assets that we hold of just under $300 million that could be subject to impairment.
We also provide information as to the effect on that if we had to go to the SIMADI rate which would see us with a charge of about $340 million after-tax or $0.37 per diluted share.
And that would also likely lead to an impairment of our non-monetary assets.
And we also provide as we have done for some time Colgate's total investment in Venezuela which is about $1 billion.
Now the reason we continue to manage Venezuela the way we do first of all we have for 2014 and into 2015 been receiving dollars and are able to operate our business even though as you say that has become a little bit more volatile in the second quarter.
Second each company has its own facts and circumstances.
And we still understand that our dividends would be remitted at the SICAD rate and therefore that's why we translate the business at that.
And of course we moved to the SICAD away from the official rate so it is a little bit more conservative.
But as you rightly indicate Venezuela is a period-to-period assessment.
You will see in our Q that our conclusion at the end of the second quarter is that we will maintain the translation rate we have and that we will continue to consolidate that business and we will specific to our facts and circumstances as we always do to continue to revisit that quarter-upon-quarter.
And we'll now take a question from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi Bina and Ian.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> How easily they forget.
Inc.</span></strong> Can you just talk about structurally how you view advertising? Because it seems like your market shares aren't impacted at all by the pullback and maybe it's like a share of voice issue because maybe the guys are pulling back as well.
But maybe structurally could that advertising ratio be lower going forward because it's not having much of an impact on your market share trends? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I'll resist repeating the last man standing comment Bill.
But in terms of advertising as I have said before we build our programs from the ground up and we're very much focused on what it takes to maintain awareness of our base business build awareness of new innovations and build trial and go on and repeat given the quality of our products for the new products that we bring to the marketplace.
As you rightly say or suggest and we have seen and we talked about it on the last call we have seen many competitors in several significant markets around the world substantially pull back on traditional advertising and therefore we can accomplish our strategic objectives and not lose competitive presence on the ground.
And as we've tried to express before a lot of what you can do at the retail level today is far more sophisticated and strategic than maybe 10 years ago.
And we make no apology for choosing to construct our marketing programs with good reliance on both.
We talk about integrated marketing communications and we talk about reaching consumers at all touch points which of course does yes include traditional television and digital but also includes the retail dental professional veterinary professional environments that shape their purchasing decisions.
I would not project seeing our advertising levels decline meaningfully.
In fact as we think about this year we expect to be up on a local currency basis and probably at about the same level as last year on a ratio basis.
But we'll obviously again as we go forward look at what it takes to build the engagement without consumers to keep growing market share and therefore our brands and therefore the top line of the company.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
And then can I just ask you are you shipping to consumption now in most of the markets? So is it stocking largely done? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you for the one question.
The...
Inc.</span></strong> It's a short one.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> In China as we said on the last call in fact the consumption was mid-single-digits.
We suggested I think that the second quarter was off to a good start in China and that we expected to be back to consumption.
You I think can see that in the Asia numbers.
China is back to consumption and as Bina mentioned we saw a bounce back in Brazil and when we look at our categories in Latin America including Brazil the growth rates of the categories is around that mid-single-digits level; so we would say you know that's the expected environment going forward.
In fact to comment for the emerging markets mid-single-digits for the U.S.
about 2% on average or the spread is 1% to 3% depending on the categories; and Europe at the same 0% to 2% range bound level it's been in for some time.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
We'll now take a question from Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
Thank you.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Chris.
Ian I guess that's a perfect transition to Brazil.
The last time we were talking about Brazil intra-quarter and in last quarter's call you weren't particularly optimistic about it.
The recovery there though your volumes your organic was up nicely.
I guess can you talk about what's changed? Has it been the category growth rates or is it – it doesn't look like it was an acceleration of share based on what you said but I'd just love any commentary you can offer up there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Our share is up.
I mean Bina talked about the year-to-date.
The latest period is over 72% as I said last time who's looking? I think fundamentally Chris it has to do with the category.
I think we were prudent the last time we spoke because the country was in a state of short-term dislocations; and in fact I had just come back from Brazil and so felt it up close and personal and we thought it was better to take a more prudent stance for the balance of the year until we saw the category growth rates come through.
I would say that has now stabilized.
We expected to provide an update at the end of the second quarter and we're able to do so and I think we can say that the underlying consumer consumption now in our categories in Brazil is back to that broad mid-single-digits growth rates.
So it traces specifically to the category growth.
Thank you.
And we'll now go to Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Bill.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Just going back to Latin America just wanted to – and maybe I can't do the algebra; but on unit growth it looks like it was flat excluding I guess the acquisitions year-over-year and it said it was partially hurt by Venezuela.
I mean would it have been up meaningfully without Venezuela? And do you expect unit growth to kind of start to bounce back as we move through the year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well again I think we were very pleased with the organic growth to save Ali the trouble when he comes on we don't break out Venezuela; but our volume growth in Latin America we see as coming back but we were quite happy with the trade-off we made to price relative to volume in this quarter to an earlier question.
The volume ex-Venezuela was indeed more positive than you see for the division but by a multiple.
Did we lose everybody? No your line is still open.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Do we have no more questions? I guess Mr.
Chappell your line is still open.
Inc.</span></strong> Oh I'm sorry.
I thought that was – yeah.
So it was just to clarify you do expect unit growth.
It's just a matter – and Venezuela did kind of wipe away all of the unit growth this quarter? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Venezuela depressed the division's unit growth yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And but even with incremental price increases unit growth should bounce back going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
Thank you.
We'll now go to Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Thank you so much.
Good morning.
I'm just wondering...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Caroline.
Could you dig in a little bit on Russia where P&amp;G had really really awful June results I believe I think down 57% just very difficult times? And also comment generally on whether some of your foreign competitors are behaving differently given they don't have the dollar currency issues you have? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I really don't want to start getting into detail by countries; but suffice it to say we did not have the declines in Russia that some others are quoting.
Our market shares in Russia are strong and growing.
And we of course have taken some fairly significant pricing across that division but very specifically to Russia given the foreign exchange impact actually our toothbrush here in Russia was up two points.
So is back to the opening remarks really and that is yes we are taking pricing as we need to.
We're focusing on Funding the Growth we're focusing on the Global Growth and Efficiency program but we're also focusing on building our brands and building our market shares.
And I would say the progress in Russia fits that model.
And just on foreign competitors are you seeing them you know enter any markets anew or do anything differently the ones you don't have a dollar exposure? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think most everybody is hurt a little bit by the Russian circumstance.
We certainly don't see any irrational behavior the other way no.
Sorry.
I didn't mean specific to Russia.
I mean in general.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Oh.
You know again you see pockets of increased activity.
You see pockets of decreased activity.
I would characterize the global landscape as business as usual.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Ali Dibadj from Bernstein.
Hey guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Ali Ali Ali don't shout at me.
Why? Do I shout? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No no no.
You're listening to our previous call? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I was reading the transcript.
Yeah.
I just state the truth.
That's all I try to do.
So on advertising spend you know it's the fifth quarter in a row where we've seen it down.
What we see at least understand the gross to net but what we see in particular is down in Latin America and Africa/Eurasia and I can't pretend to say that if you decline you know reduce advertising spend in those regions you'll get an immediate response but you did see flat volume in Latin America understanding on the price/mix that you got or the price parts you got.
Africa/Eurasia was down 3% which is some of the worst we've seen.
And I get the share of voice comments.
Our share voice isn't lower.
It's actually higher and that's why we're gaining share.
As your senior brethren are feeling quite some pain as well.
But what's happened to the category? So what's the category responsibility? I mean maybe share voices isn't the right metric because the category itself should be could be growing a little bit faster going forward.
So I wanted to get your thoughts on that a little bit.
And I know it's only one question but as a clarification on the gross margin that you described earlier on if you would please? So the gross margin guidance is down to like 80 basis points at the high end but you're still to kind of negative low single-digit EPS growth number? I'm trying to get a better understanding what the offsets are just staying in that low single-digits or is it just kind of worst low single-digits when you describe it for the year? Thanks very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well the first question is a very broad question.
To be clear I'm not saying that our share of voice is necessarily higher by market.
I'm saying that if you use that as the measure of consumer engagement which is a questionable hypothesis even though it gives you a number we have remained competitive.
And back to the comment we made earlier you know our objective is to make sure we have brand awareness of our base business and build trials for new businesses.
And we believe the spend levels we have do that.
If you look at the category rates of growth I would argue that growing categories is a lot more complicated than simply media pressure.
Obviously in our advertising we do the educational work but sometimes perhaps we don't talk about it enough or people don't focus on it enough but how you go to market the depth of distribution you build the sizing pricing you have in your portfolio indeed the price points you have in your portfolio amplified by price both at the low-end and the high-end creates access points for people to come into and stay in a category.
And we put an awful lot of pressure and effort to making sure we construct our portfolio the right way in order to keep the category penetration up and keep the growth rates of the categories at healthy levels.
And all of that you see in the portfolio choices we make the sizing pricing choices we make the distribution gains we get right down to the furthest rural areas and that is very much a driver on sustaining a category growth.
Now it's a very big discussion Ali and I'm not trying to trivialize it.
I'm just trying to suggest there are more factors that come to bear than just advertising.
And then to come to your second point.
And some of you have already started to indicate this so let me try and respond to the question and be clear.
As we said in our release at current spot rates we continue to expect a low-single digit earnings per share decline on a dollar basis excluding of course the restructuring and the other charges we highlighted in the release.
Now to be clear low-single digit earnings decline range dollar earnings decline range is minus 1% to minus 3%.
And in as much as we have seen continued significant deterioration in foreign exchange rates over the course of the second quarter and since we last spoke we would expect to be at the more negative end of that range which would still reflect a double-digit increase on a currency neutral basis.
Thanks for being clear.
Thank you.
We'll now take John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Ian if you look at the gross margin reconciliation that you did obviously a huge hit on the raw material standpoint.
You talked about raw materials sort of beginning to trend more favorably in June I think you said in your commentary.
So as we look at the transactional piece of that versus the general let's say dollar-based raw material inflation how should we see those things changing as we look out over the next six months to 12 months and that starts to flow in? So I guess can you give us some direction in terms of how much of that transactional piece you'll be able to offset just with the more favorable moves in the underlying raw material rates? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think depending on your view on foreign exchange we've just given you our view on foreign exchange that unfortunately is likely to continue.
So the benefit will come in the material costs the commodity costs over the balance of the year and the increased pricing that we will be taking.
So if I give a general view that's really the way it breaks down.
Got it.
So I guess I was looking for a little bit more of a directional view in terms of excluding the FX excluding the productivity just how big can the swing in the raw material benefit be even if it's just directional over the next several quarters? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah that was the detail I didn't want to and still don't want to give.
Okay.
Thank you.
We'll now go to Olivia Tong with Bank of America.
Thanks.
First just following up on John's question.
The gross margin outlook while down from prior expectations implies a very big acceleration in the second half.
And you mentioned plans for more pricing so that's part of it.
But can you talk through some of the other key drivers like Funding the Growth and some of the cost savings programs that will help drive that meaningful improvement in the back half margins? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Olivia clearly it really is a combination of the factors that I raised before which is more pricing more Funding the Growth more favorable underlying commodity pricing and maybe a little bit of Global Growth and Efficiency as well.
And then you've maybe got the mix aspect of our business that could provide a factor as well.
But the real drivers will be pricing will be Funding the Growth underlying commodity costs and maybe a touch from Global Growth and Efficiency as we have seen before.
Thanks.
And then on North America why does there seem to be more volatility on pricing in North American than all your other regions? Because results last quarter and then it reversed to be down this quarter.
So what's driving that difference? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah the biggest single difference Olivia is couponing.
Couponing is a very effective draw mechanism in the U.S.
used more in the U.S.
than any other geography around the world and of course goes into trade spending.
Bina mentioned some of the new products that we have been introducing and we have obviously been trying to build trial of those new products and therefore you invest in couponing and you see it in the volume growth of the business.
So you're always going to see North America is a little bit more lumpy quarter-on-quarter because of that difference in the go-to-market.
Thank you.
We'll now take our next question from Mark Astrachan with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Mark.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> I wanted to ask as you go around the world which geographies are you seeing the most impact from local or regional competition? And how do you think about changes in go-to-market strategy to compensate if any? And thoughts or current updates on a different way of actually going to market? How are you embracing internet where applicable and so forth? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I would say local competitors are a factor around the world.
I guess they've been often discussed by several folk in China.
Certainly we see them in Latin America.
And your best way of responding and the way we try to respond is to understand the consumer and make sure that the innovation we're providing is competitive against the benefit or the product offering the local competitor is providing.
And then secondly when you mention go-to-market it is often the case with the local competitor that they have a particular infrastructure that can build downtrade distribution and a lot of activity again at retail level and you just need to be effective in making sure that your products are available at an equal weight to that competitor and that you have the same degree of activity at retail level to compete with them.
Now China is an interesting example where our market share over the last several years has gone up from 29% to 34%.
One of our principal competitors has come down from 25% to under 14%.
And another has come down from 12% to high-single digit and the local competitor has really taken the difference.
So without making one example a predictor for the world I think it demonstrates we have managed to defend and continue to grow our business quite well.
But it comes down to product offering and the strength of your go-to-market particularly down trade and particularly activity at retail.
We'll now go to Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
Good morning everyone Ian Bina.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Javier.
A quick question with regards to Hill's.
Very good number the 7%.
It seems like the growth at least in your 10-Q you say that the Prescription Diet category more like the veterinary side of the business it was the most meaningful contribution.
I had expected because last year we had this problem at the PetSmart specialty stores kind of outlets that it would be the other way around.
So if you can explain the dynamics of the pet food market with the entry of this Blue Buffalo as a publicly traded company are they promoting more how – what is happening in the specialty stores? And how sustainable this growth is in the veterinarian channel? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I guess the simple answer is they both grew.
And the reason for the growth was driven by innovation both on the Prescription Diet line and the Science Diet line.
The appearance of Blue Buffalo in the pet super stores is not a new thing.
They have been there for a long while.
And our presence in those stores our activities in those stores has not been affected.
So we saw very good growth and as we have tried to say several times on calls one of the big differences we were striving for was a stream of innovation on Hill's so that it was not episodic but that we had a flow of innovation both on the Science Diet business and the Prescription Diet business and we think we have that.
I mean who couldn't love innovation that has Enhanced Appetite Trigger built into it? I bet the Petco for that.
So it's driven by innovation.
Now where Blue Buffalo will be new is in the more therapeutic side of the business.
They have announced two entries in only two segments.
One is gastrointestinal.
You'll remember from Bina's remarks that we are going to market with a very compelling gastrointestinal product right now with the Prescription Diet line so I come back to the innovation.
We think it's strong and we think it will see us well with our very elevated share with the vets which as you rightly say continue to grow in the second quarter.
So we think we're well-positioned with both Javier.
We'll now take a question from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Lauren.
Inc.</span></strong> Hello.
I was just a couple of things.
One is on – I know it's very clear mathematically that the SG&amp;A have to be sort of the plug with the lower gross margin outlook but I was wondering if that is really sourced from the restructuring savings if it's an acceleration what you're tapping into to kind of be able to offset some of the gross margin impact.
And then the second thing was is it reasonable to assume that some of the gross margin impact it's just the timing issue like the pricing that will be coming through to the balance of the year as you get into 2016 will kind of make up some of this incremental pressure you're seeing on commodities because of FX? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Could you repeat the second question Lauren? Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Sorry.
I realized as I was talking I was getting really unclear.
So the transactional impact on commodity costs which I think is sort of what you were saying in Venezuela is the timing of the pricing the issue? That it's not that you're not going to price to recover this incremental pressure it's just we can't get it in fast enough to cover the impact this year but as you go into next year it starts to catch up? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I mean correct.
We've always had this situation.
I tried to say earlier in response to a question in some cases Russia would be a classic example where a crisis emerges.
You take very aggressive pricing and accept the fallout on the volume just to stabilize the business.
In other cases you simply can't take pricing quickly enough and intelligently manage the balance between volume price and therefore the top line growth in response to transaction which hits you the minute you exchange slides.
So our pricing benefit from that will be progressive over the balance of the year and you are correct will continue into 2016.
So as we look at the balance of the year yes it is to do with the Global Growth and Efficiency program; and as I said advertising will be broadly in line with last year.
You may recall the last time we spoke from a ratio point of view you may recall the last time we talked about it being up.
So heavily led by Global Growth and Efficiency and I think you could say a moderation again we still think by our share and our top line delivery competitive for the moderation and the advertising over the back half.
And we'll now take Iain Simpson from SocGen.
Go ahead.
Thank you very much.
We've seen increased commodity volatility and also increased currency volatility of late.
And you've sort of talked about how your attitudes took pricing and trade spend change in response to that.
Have you seen anything unusual from any of your global competitors and how they prioritize the balance of their spending? Is the landscape moving more towards trade spend or advertising? Or if you could just give us some color on the dynamics there? Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Well first of all it's a great name.
But in response to the question as we answered the previous question I would say from a global point of view no you know no substantial difference.
I mean if you go country-by-country around the world you see different approaches from different competitors that you have to react to but no overarching strategy that sees a significant change no.
And that was our final question.
I would like to turn the conference back to the speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> No.
Thank you very much Jessica.
Thank you all who joined the call and your interest in the company and as we always say at this time thank you especially to the Colgate people who make it all happen.
Bye-bye.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's Colgate-Palmolive Company's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded and is being simulcast live at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
Today's conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of the company’s views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
So for information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on Colgate’s Web site including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements on Forward-looking Statements.
This conference call will also include a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures which differ from the company’s results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Colgate will discuss organic sales growth which is net sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and divestitures.
The company will also discuss gross profit gross profit margin SG&amp;A SG&amp;A as percent of net sales operating profit operating profit margin net income and earnings per-share on a diluted basis excluding the impact of the items described in the press release.
A full reconciliation of the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the press release and is posted in the Investors section of Colgate’s Web site at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
Just a reminder there may be a slight delay before the question-and-answer session begin due to the web simulcast.
Now for opening remarks I'd like to turn the call over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Bina Thompson.
Please go ahead Bina.
Thank you Kelly.
Good morning everybody and welcome to our third quarter 2015 earnings release conference call.
With me this morning are Ian Cook President Chairman and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller and Elaine Paik Treasurer.
We're pleased with the continued solid organic sales growth of course negative foreign exchange continues to be a major challenge but as you’ll hear our market shares are strong and growing one of the best indications of the health of the business.
Happily gross profit margin increase in the quarter as a result of our funding the growth initiatives pricing actions and our global growth and efficiency program.
Worldwide our overhead cost are down on a dollar basis.
Now while we reported advertising was down on dollar basis we think we’re getting good results from the dollars we spend both in-store and out.
Digital advertising is growing in fact as an example in Latin America we are increasing our investment in digital to better reach our younger audiences as well as to drive engagements.
And as we focused on developing strategic collaborations with partners such as Google and Facebook we’re better able to measure the results of our investments.
Marketing mix model studies from several countries across Latin America show an ROI for digital investment that is three to four times higher than TV confirming this shift is right to drive our business.
Our balance sheet remain solid and we’re making very good progress on working capital.
So let's get right into the divisions starting with North America.
Innovation continues to a fuel our success in North America.
As mentioned in the press release our market shares are up year-to-date in toothpaste manual toothbrushes mouthwash liquid hand soap body wash and fabric conditioners.
And this was true on a quarter-over-quarter comparison as well.
At the same time we’ve seen a decline in private label shares in many of our categories indicating the consumers preference for branded products and respect of our equities.
In the toothpaste category the launch of Colgate Total Daily Repair supported by engaging media campaign and strong in-store shopper materials has added incremental share to the base line products.
In the whitening segment we offer a full range of products toothpaste toothbrushes and mouthwash.
Our Colgate Optic White toothpaste has grown share from 2.4% in the third quarter of 2011 to a 5.7% share in the most recent quarter.
Colgate Enamel Health has also seen good growth momentum increasing a full share point quarter-over-quarter.
Another exciting opportunity is a sensitivity segment where we are a strong number two player.
That segment has seen a compound growth of 7.7% over the last four years versus 2.8% for toothpaste overall.
In the mouthwash category where our share is up year-to-date 20 basis points both Colgate Total for gum health and Colgate Enamel Health mouthwash are picking up momentum.
Our Colgate Total for gum health is the number one new item in the leading retailer and receiving full support in-store.
In liquid hand soaps our year-to-date share is up almost a full point to a leading 30.6% while private label products have declined almost two full points year-to-date to the lowest level in at least five years.
Premium offerings such as soap Softsoap Fragrant Foaming Collection and Décor Collection foaming hand soap offer distinctive benefits.
Similar Softsoap Fresh &amp; Glow body wash with real extract with a unique formula giving you healthy looking skin that glows launched earlier this year has increased our share in that category but almost a full point year-to-date.
Fabric conditioner also continue to perform well.
Suavitel Fragrance Pearls in-wash scent boosters which provide five times longer lasting fragrance versus detergent alone which we told you about last quarter have helped increase our national share almost a full point year-to-date now approaching 20% of the market.
More trial focus programs are expected to drive further growth in the fourth quarter.
Now as you’d expect our new product grid is well populated and we will share with you some more exciting innovation slated for early 2016 on future calls.
Turning then to Europe South Pacific.
Our business there is showing encouraging signs of recovery with innovation playing a critical role.
Our market shares are up year-to-date in toothpaste manual toothbrushes body wash shower gels underarm protection and fabric conditioners.
In toothpaste we’re very excited about the early success of our launch of Colgate Max Light Expert White toothpaste latest premium offering in this fast growing segment.
Launched in the UK in June it achieved 2.7% share in August and was named the best new toiletries launched for 2015 by one of our larger drug retailers.
Two products under the Elmex brand developed specifically for the pharmacy channel Elmex Sensitive Professional and Elmex ANTI-CARIES PROFESSIONAL has driven our pharmacy share in France to a leadership position 26.3% year-to-date and now ahead of the nearest competitor by 150 basis points.
In manual toothbrushes our leading market share in Europe is up 130 basis points year-to-date to 24.6% with our nearest competitor down to 17.4%.
Driving these excellent results has been the launch across the region of our Colgate 360° manual toothbrush line priced at a super-premium tier these brushes deliver superior cleaning for whole mouth clean and has been supported by a full shopper program.
We’re also very encouraged by our launch of Sanex advanced range of body washes underarm protection and body and hand lotion.
This innovation brings dermatological expertise for skin specific needs to a third growth pillar for Sanex leading the brand towards a more professional approach in mass.
Early results are excellent.
Since launch Sanex is the fastest growing brand in both body washes and underarm and in our top markets of France Spain and the UK our market shares are up in both categories.
In fabric conditioners our market shares are up 20 basis points year-to-date to 24% across the European region with the most recent read at 24.5%.
Contributing to this success is Soupline Fruity Sensations with a striking look and feel and new different and long lasting fragrances.
More innovation is planned across our categories for the rest of this year and into 2016.
Specifically in oral care we will launching the Colgate Expert toothbrush and built in whitening pen.
And as you know that product form has helped drive our manual toothbrush share to record high tier in the U.S.
In toothpaste we will be launching Colgate Total Proof.
This innovation uses breakthrough color change technology that turns the white paste into a blue foam while brushing giving consumers the confidence of ultimate clean feeling.
Turning then to Latin America.
Business across the region is solid and as elsewhere innovation has driven market share increases.
Our regional market shares are up year-to-date in toothpaste manual toothbrushes mouthwash toilet soap liquid soap shampoo hand dish and liquid cleaners.
And even in the face of some economic uncertainties in countries such as Brazil our categories still show solid local currency growth.
Our regional toothpaste share is up two full points year-to-date to 78.2%.
In Brazil our market share is up 50 basis points year-to-date to 72% the highest share in over 20 years and in the face of continued heightened competitive activity.
Colgate Total 12 re-launched in August with the positioning of protects a 100% of the services of the mouth.
Now has an 18.5% share in the most recent period.
In Mexico our share is up 1 point year-to-date to 81.3% with the most recent read at 81.6% while our major competitor shows continued share decline.
Contributing to this success is our premium priced Colgate Luminous White Advanced Colgate’s most advanced whitening toothpaste formulated to intensify the whiteness of your teeth by three shades.
In manual toothbrushes our market share is up 230 basis points year-to-date to 45.4% with the most recent read at 49.8%.
In Mexico we recently reintroduced our Colgate 360° line with a new packaging structure with premium finishing and improved benefit communications all mouth clean with a 151% more bad breadth bacteria removal.
As a result the Colgate 360° equity is up 110 basis points year-to-date reaching a record 11.1% share.
Our leading year-to-date bar soap share is at 30.8% with the most recent read at 32%.
Record high shares were achieved in Mexico Columbia and Guatemala and our two equities Protex and Palmolive continue to hold the number one and two position across the regions.
In Mexico where we have a strong Home Care business our result to excellent across the three sub categories hand dish liquid cleaners and fabric conditioners.
Our market-shares are up on year-to-date basis 230 40 and 150 basis points respectively to 52.6% 33.5% and 48.4%.
So looking ahead to further boost our leading manual toothbrush share we are now in the process of launching Colgate Slim Soft White with 17 times slimmer tip spiraled bristles which provide both whitening and deep yet gentle cleaning.
And innovation launching in fabric conditioners is Suavitel Goodbye Rinse the market leading Suavitel with an improved no rinse formula.
And as you would expect more innovation is planned for 2016 to continue the momentum in this region.
Turning then to Asia we’re pleased with the strength of the business particularly in our two largest markets China and India which both delivered good volume growth category growth rates remain mid-single digit in China while in India our categories are growing as well.
In India our year-to-date toothpaste share is at almost 55% on a national basis and close to 59% in rural market.
Our market leading manual toothbrush share is 43.6% year-to-date and our launch of Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief Enamel repair toothpaste while in its early days is doing well.
Our Colgate 360° Charcoal Gold toothbrush launched earlier in other Asian markets is no contributing to the results in India.
This successful innovation with anti-bacterial bristles provides a whole mouth clean and have achieved strong shares across the region in the most recent period 1.4% in Hong Kong; 2.5% in the Philippines; 1.3% in Taiwan and almost a 1% in Malaysia and has been incremental in each market.
More innovation is slated for this quarter and beyond.
In China we will be launching two new products developed to appeal to local consumer preferences Colgate Power White Lemon Salt toothpaste for freshness and whitening experience with a lemon and sea salt flavor and Colgate 360° Gold ginseng gum care toothpaste which contains ginseng essence and enhances the gums power of defense.
Two popular Colgate Total variance Charcola Deep Clean and Pro Gum will now be available in a gel format in addition to the paste.
And in Thailand in the personal care category we’re launching products for both men and women.
For men Protex Men 3-in-1 an all-in-one body cleansing solution with anti-bacterial protection and for women Protex Intimate with anti-bacterial protection for long lasting freshness and well-being sensation every day.
Africa Eurasia as you know several of our larger markets in Africa Eurasia region have been facing major currency headwinds.
Despite the pricing actions we have taken to combat the currency headwinds organic sales growth is holding at mid-single digit.
Market shares are increasing and successful innovation is fueling our growth.
Our regional toothpaste share is up at full point year-to-date to almost 33%.
In Russia our share is up 230 basis points year-to-date to 34.2% hitting a record share of 35.1% in the most recent period.
We recently launched Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection with Sugar Acid Neutralizer which has already reached at 0.7% share year-to-date and contributed to the share gain.
In South Africa our share grew 150 basis points year-to-date to 50.2% driven by a new marketing campaign behind Colgate Total.
In toothbrushes our share declined in only one country and was up in the majority of our market.
In Russia where we achieved incremental listings in Russia’s number one retailer our toothbrush share grew 270 basis points year-to-date to 48.1% with the most recent read at 49.4%.
And in Turkey our share grew 10 basis points year-to-date to 28.6% with the most recent read at 29.7% and in South Africa our share was up 30 basis points year-to-date to 38.2% with the most recent read at 38.6%.
Our bar soap business continued with strong momentum in our two biggest markets Russia and South Africa the recent introduction of Protex Men Power contributed to a regional share gain of 150 basis points year-to-date to almost 24%.
More innovation is slated for this quarter.
Across the region we will be relaunching our base Colgate Sensitive toothpaste and our line of Plax mouthwash.
In the personal care category we will launching a body wash occupying the new energizing segment for men’s body wash Palmolive Men Citrus Crush.
It invite the consumer to experience an intense invigorating shower with [indiscernible] and grape fruit ingredients sourced from the purest substances of nature and this buzzing citrus fragrance to spoil the senses.
And Hill’s Hill’s delivered another solid quarter of organic sales growth with a good balance of volume and price.
Here in the U.S.
superstore retail consumption showed a good increase innovation across Hill’s prescription diet and Hill’s science diet as well as volume growth in our ideal balanced brand contributed to our good results.
Our Prescription Diet Metabolic Canine and Feline food continue to gain share around the world.
Our new stews form has accelerated our growth in the wet segment.
We continue to receive endorsements from key thought leaders and the global rollout this year of Prescription Diet Metabolic Plus breakthrough dual efficacy food with nutrition and clinically proven to address obesity and concurrent conditions has added to the momentum of the business.
It’s now selling in 38 countries and has benefited from extensive sampling to drive awareness and trial.
Our ongoing global integrated marketing campaign includes professional print online media in clinic seminars and recommendation tools and testimonial videos to showcase efficacy.
In our wellness business one of our newer launches Science Diet Urinary Hairball Control is meeting with excellent results.
The only wellness food that addressed the two most common conditions in health cats it was among the top three wet variants in the U.S.
marketing during the first three months after its launch and had a very high star rating on Amazon.com.
It’s been the product focus for our new professional consultants at PetSmart and Petco and has received good in store activation feedback.
Building on our success in the U.S.
it is just been launched in Europe.
And as we look into 2016 there is more exciting innovation news which we will discuss with you on future calls.
So in summary we’re pleased with the continued solid organic sales growth and market share gains around the world.
Our innovation pipeline is as full as ever and our savings programs are on track.
Colgate people around the world continue to focus on our four strategic initiatives delivering consistent results.
So we look forward to sharing our results with you as we finish the year.
And now Kelly I should like to turn it over for questions.
Thank you.
Today’s question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically for the cell phone audience [Operator Instructions].
And we’ll take our first question from Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
So first Ian just a detail question I think last quarter you’d indicated in local currency advertising will be roughly flat year-over-year as a percent of sales in 2015.
Is that still the case? How you think about that line item? And then the real question on that front is it’s now been six quarters in a row where A&amp;P has been down substantially as a percent of sales.
I know you’ve indicated before it’s been funneled back into promotion which has been a fact given the market share performance.
But the level of pull back in A&amp;P is really striking relative to your -- traditionally the way you’ve run the business.
So what gives you confidence this won’t come back to bite you in the long run in terms of lower demand going forward particularly given the macro situation out there right now? As you might imagine not an unexpected question and in answering it as you did let’s take a little bit broader perspective and then come back to your specific question.
So the world we’re dealing in today in terms of our categories so I am talking Colgate businesses now and the categories in which we do business not the macroeconomic scene we have a world where our categories are growing between 0% and 2% in the developed world in Europe at the low end of that and in the U.S.
at the upper end of that 0% to 2% growth.
In the emerging markets through this call the growth rates in our categories continue to be mid-single digits generally.
And our objective business objective in that arena has been to have a sustainable rate of growth organically in that 4% to 7% range that we mentioned at the beginning of the year which we think we continue into the third quarter and we continue to talk about 4 to 7 of the year and indeed as we think about 2016 we begin our budgeting process with the same ambition next year.
And the way you get that consistent rate of growth is by building new brands.
And you build your brands as measured in market share and as we choose investment vehicles to build those brands you’re focusing on trial and repeat purchase of our new innovation and our existing businesses.
And don’t forget in many of these emerging markets consumer behavior is challenged by local category conditions in those markets and in store engagement can be more persuasive than -- we were all educated as being proper advertising investment.
So we balance and like to think we invest smartly in traditional media the traditional television magazine radio sampling devices that would be in that advertising number with an increasing shift as Bina pointed out to digital being both lower cost and better rate of return and frankly in Latin America with the millennials are now the predominant parent generation a better way of engaging with that target group.
And you as you indicated the in-store work that we do within these volatile times can be particularly powerful.
Now all of that said as we think about going forward and we begin our process for the budget in 2016 even though we haven’t yet fully begun that process if we look at the array of innovation we have over the next three years starting in 2016 I think it would be safe to say that our expectation would be that our traditional advertising ratios would be up in 2016.
Okay is that on a local currency basis so that’s overall company and also can you give us a sense of where you kind of lead 2015 in terms of the ad ratio? Well the ad ratio will be according to our current plan for 2015 will be up quarter-on-quarter for the balance of the year and now I am talking income statement so I am talking dollar.
And if you think about 2016 I think at this stage the expectation would be dollar and of course therefore local currency given what I think most believe will be an improving or at least less bad foreign exchange environment.
We’ll move next to Wendy Nicholson with Citigroup.
Hi.
First of all Bina you talked about the Brazilian competitive environment as still being fairly intent.
But can you talk a little bit more qualitatively is that more price based competition is there more advertising is there more innovation just fighting for shelf and space or just -- I know your shares are good but directionally what are you seeing there? And then just separately housekeeping on Hills can you remind us what the split is U.S.
versus international sales now for health and maybe in the quarter.
How sales performance differed by region? Thank you.
The Brazil I don’t actually recall Bina’s language but frankly the Brazilian environment hasn’t become particularly more competitive and historically it continues to be a competitive marketplace to be sure.
But again back to my answer to Dara with the programs we have and the innovation we have we see our market-share continuing to grow and at 72 as Bina said it's the highest in the last 20 years with our principal competitors both down.
So frankly at this stage whatever the threats are in the marketplace we seem to be meeting them.
If we turn to your second question which was around Hill’s I think it would be fair to say in broad terms that Hill’s is about 50-50 U.S.
domestic international business split.
And it trends internationally versus in U.S.
in terms of growth for Hills similar? Similar.
Yes I mean the innovation moves from the U.S.
around the world and I am pleased to say things like metabolic and metabolic plus are having similar impacts where ever we take them so yes.
We’ll take our next question from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
I am sorry I hopped a little late but I am wondering if you address Venezuela and the decision not just sort of take it to worst case scenario in the earnings did I miss something there? No you didn’t Caroline and I am sure many of you have not yet had the chance to get to our [indiscernible] which was posted earlier this morning.
But as you well know from the financial literature and the decisions that one makes in this space any decision that we would take to deconsolidated would be driven by our inability on an ongoing basis to get dollars or if we faced additional restrictions on our ability to make local operating decisions on the ground clearly these are things that we revisit quarter upon quarter and we duly did so for this quarter Caroline but based on our facts and circumstances and the assessments we made we have chosen to keep reporting Venezuela this quarter and of course that is subject that we will revisit period-by-period as time goes on.
And off the 12% pricing in Latin America then can you say how much is Venezuela? Well remember the government approved pricing that got in Venezuela which I think was around 70% plus 74% if I remember correct me that was in the fourth quarter of last year.
So obviously you have the rollover effect.
There is pricing obviously we get for the non-regulated businesses but I would tell you that we are getting pricing across Latin America from Mexico down to Argentina.
We’ll go next to Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
I wanted to ask again about why you are confident that you’re striking the right balance in terms of volume versus margin for the long term? And so take maybe two metrics one take as the move more and more to in store promotion and in store displays doesn’t that suggest that the consumer is making more and more decision at the shelf and that’s been a trend going on for a while.
It seems like its accelerating.
So does that reduce such a competitive advantage over the long term because I think it’s tough to really differentiate yourself as much in store as one could through traditional media as an example? Perhaps online -- although I’d say that the ROI there is still hefty because we know long term history.
So how you balance that? Is that -- are you setting yourself up in a tougher situation by pushing more in store for the long term given you’re trying to differentiate your brand? Very good and deep question Ali as usual.
The answer is it’s not either-or and I think if you were to go back to again the days when many of us made our marketing bones in store activity was pretty rudimentary there was a cardboard display stuck at the end of the shelf with a $0.99 off flag on it hardly brand building in nature and that is why everybody has this aversion if you will to in store investment versus the supposed quality of the engagement we get from their traditional media understanding that that will today is so fragmented that it is less precise than perhaps many of us believed historically.
So no obviously you don’t find yourself in a place where all of your engagement with consumer happens at the retail level.
So with the data available to us today with the techniques available to us today with some of the in store engagement materials available to us today which are brand and benefit and therapy open bracket Colgate specific including some times the coloring of the shelves but house oral care products at retail that is a wonderful environment to get consumers to make that final decision particularly if they are in a stressed highly devalued geography.
You still have the advertising and we can debate traditional versus digital but is making the awareness connection and seeking to provoke the trial but you miss everything if you don’t engage with that consumer when they come to that store to make sure the trial engendered if the your product.
So yes it is a balance so it is not a journey to everything at retail but I think the historical perceptions of what you can do at retail and frankly a prejudice that says what you do at retail is by definition not brand building I am afraid it’s a little bit old school.
So besides that I am old school there here --.
That’s allowed [ph] by the way.
But do you think -- so I understand engaging at shelf I mean you guys have seen it you guys have done it very well the [indiscernible] side slightly all show.
I struggle with that being not -- that being differentiated so feeling that that’s probably easier to copy with a little bit of spend in store with a little bit of more discussion with the merchants in store then really good copy and whether that’d be digital or not.
And it just sounds like you don’t even think that’s the case it’s not as copy able in store? Ali again take Latin America think about our market share and think about how much of that shelf we have then think about red then think about a program that may take a local dentist with an incentive to go to a store and buy Colgate that is hitting you in the face with a therapeutic health message so you’re coming in provoked by the dentist and Colgate is engaging newer shelf a competitor can spend more money they’re not going to get that presence at retail.
So I would argue it is differentiating and the presence you have at retail with the market shares we have in our specific categories come back to the more fragmented media market you can argue which is more likely to get the consumers’ attention.
Having said that I am still old school and I agree with you a good copy is very important part of a marketing mix but it’s a marketing mix I would argue it is not simply more of the store but everything on media.
Things are much more balanced.
We’ll go next to Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
You said about doing something in organic it's been a while since you guys have looked at acquisitions and it seems like the industry is clearly changing very rapidly there is not as amount of active business twist there is big focus on cost cutting and it seems like you're pretty deeply penetrated and especially in oral care.
So is there anything out there that you guys are thinking about this juncture that would making better leverage from your distribution infrastructure? Yes I mean it's clearly a very good question Bill and obviously were I to answer and I’d have to kill you.
So I think the headline would be I think we are very thoughtful and we’re very strategic about acquisition you have seen that I think in those things that we have acquired.
We are all with strategically open to the right acquisition at the right time.
As you know these things are little bit of process of serendipity however much you move and peruse and then we are also very disciplined on valuations.
You have to live with what you buy for the betterment of the company over the long haul.
So I think my answer would be we’re as interested in acquisitions as were in Sanex and GABA and Tom’s and the laser brand in Myanmar and if more were to become available and the price was right you’d see as this interested going forward as we have been over our recent past.
But I wouldn’t make it a tilting point now versus previously.
Okay great.
Can I just have a follow-up I am asking to read the tea leaves here but are there any signs that we’re bottoming in emerging market I know the category growth rates are still fairly healthy but almost all that’s driven by price and mix.
If people get some of the scan volume data flat up very slightly most of that inflation pricing with the absence of a local competitor.
So like do you have any thoughts on kind of when we really start to see consumption come back? I think in terms of physical consumption; first of all some of these markets are growing in volume terms so it's not everywhere.
But you're right when pricing is very aggressive needs as must from a dollar point of view that tends to depress volume in s short haul so without being glib I think my answer would be once the necessary wave of pricing is behind us and everybody else that’s taking pricing I think you can expect the balance between price and volume to move back more on to the volume side of the equation.
When exactly that will be is difficult to tell I would certainly say it will be no earlier than next year.
We’ll go next to Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
Thank you for question.
I want to come back to the investment questions against the consumer.
So a two part question; one it sounds like you really were in an environment where shifting more to trade makes sense given the sharper marketing components that ways and the engagement the consumer there and digital course playing a larger role.
With that said is it fair to assume that the measurable AMP line in your income statement we should expect that ratio to sales to remain lower than it has been historically? And secondly as you moved straight and move to essentially a counter revenue line item that we can’t see in the P&amp;L it becomes a little hard to measure for us to see.
So can you give us a sense of if we were able to group of trade and measurably compete together and look at that as a percentage of sales how that maybe changing year-to-date for fair versus previous year? The last one is difficult to do Jason because one comes off gross and the other is measured against net.
What I can tell you is that what you are calling trade spending is up this year.
But to come back to you more fundamental question a few things; number one this notion of shopper marketing is not the third quarter 2015 comment.
We have been trying to make this point unsuccessfully for the last two to three years for the reasons ID tailed a little bit earlier.
We believe well done it is part of building brands.
Number two you're right digital I think will become an important way to target and reach different consumer groups going forward and that carries with it a different dollar to the traditional media.
But no I would not take the notion this forever going forward our traditional media to sales percentage the one you do see will be lower and stay lower.
That as I said earlier in response to a question I think we’ll be the innovation spread and we have driven by the innovation spread that we have and as I said earlier even though we haven’t finished the budget process actually we haven’t even started the budget process but when you look at our innovation grid for the next three years starting in 2016 I think my expectation would be that you will see that ratio head back up a little bit in 2016.
So it will move around I am just trying to assert that there is no good and bad it’s all in the marketing mix and they are all legitimate ways of engaging with consumers.
And particularly in volatile times with high devaluations that closure if you will with the consumer on sale in those high devalued emerging markets happen in that retail environment.
So can you help me understand why it’s hard to give us sense of the trade spend number? I mean you know the number instead of divided by growth you could just divide it by net to give us the ratio.
Am I over simplifying it by thinking about it that way? No you’re not.
We haven’t done that let us think about that we could do that it is then a created number.
We’ll move next to Olivia Tong with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
So just on advertising you’ve mentioned it should go up next year.
But do you think this level with abnormally low and you will see a big move upwards next year or is there plan for up but not materially so in 2016.
And what are you seeing in terms of the decision on promo versus advertising from your major competitors.
Because I asking in the context that Proctor sort of shifting some of their trying to realize more margin potentially as a detriment of sale in some cases? Thanks.
Well first of all I had tried to explain the third quarter this year.
It is a quarter I wouldn’t have said about it I don’t think it’s abnormally low and therefore as we approach our 2016 budget we’re saying oh we need to get it back up to X or Y level I do believe we do believe that with the richness of innovation we have the expectation will be that it will be up how much it will be up we will know when we finish our budgeted process.
Now as you look around the world and something I elected not to say let’s one sounds defensive but as you go around the world in many parts of the world you continue to see many of our multinational competitors pull back on traditional advertising quite substantially and then many of that fee market even if you take the old fashioned measure of share or voice we remain just on the face of it quite competitive.
Now we have seen some collaborating signals of certain businesses exited by competitors in order to realize price you see the public information in India and you see that in the market place.
But if we take the breadth of our business there is nothing I would point to say the shape of the promotional environment that we’re in has meaningfully changed.
So I can just move to restructuring.
Are you pushing harder on the initiatives you’ve already outlined or these new areas that you will be exploring? And will this result in more savings starting in 2016 or is it just an extension to another year of savings? And as you think about reinvestment versus dropping to the bottom line are there any shifts there in terms of how you think about this new tranche of restructuring savings.
Let’s take a step back Olivia.
Clearly when we began this program which by the way is a lot shorter than many of our competitors.
But when we began the program we had three key areas and we said at the beginning that it was a global growth and efficiency program and that it was a journey.
So we were establishing hubs and we were establishing business service centers and we were transferring lifting and shifting if you will capabilities to the new structure that we were building that was supported by SAP across out Company.
So this gives us the opportunity to transform a little bit what we are doing with the new structure that we are creating and do it in a time bound window of 2017 rather than extending it over a longer period.
So it is very definitely still within the three areas that we defined at the beginning of the restructuring no new areas.
It is definitely one more year.
And as we said in the release we’ll be coming back to you early in the New Year with flushed out ranges of costs for the program and savings.
So on that one we’ll back to you in the new-year.
We’ll go next to Steve Powers with UBS.
Great thanks.
I guess just to cleans up on topics already discussed on Venezuela acknowledging every situation is different is it fair to assess at least the likelihood of deconsolidation rising on the margin it feels that way from the outside.
I just want to get your perspective on that? And second much to the restructuring that Olivia asked about is there -- so should we’ll be thinking about more opportunity in this next wave building on the hunting thread shared services is there a focus area within the three that is going to be of weight or maybe -- I am just trying to get a sense for where the incremental focus will go either in terms of focus stream or geography? On your Venezuela comment all I can say Steve is that this is something we revisit quarter-by-quarter based on the facts and circumstances that present themselves in each of the quarters and we will continue to do that.
So I really and specifically do not want to share how we’re thinking about it.
We will be resolutely objective and make whatever decisions we think are appropriate based on the fact and circumstances at the time.
Now when you turn to the restructuring I would say simplistically and we will be back with richer commentary next year I would say specifically what we’re talking about and activities that will be more transformational in how we used the hubs we have created and how we use the service centers we have created more fulsomely.
And I hold it there at this stage.
So it is greater utilization around the basic structures that we will have fully established by next year.
We’ll go next to Chris Ferrara with Wells Fargo.
The SG&amp;A excluding advertising in the quarter looks likes it picked up maybe by 100 basis points year-on-year.
So can you go through a little bit what might have driven that I mean is that some of the shift in store there is some promotional activity? Chris that is straight forward leverage our overheads -- our drawn [ph] overheads were actually down year-on-year with the benefits we’re getting from the restructuring program.
But there is a lot of overhead that is dollar denominated and when you have the downward pressure of 13% foreign exchange on the top-line you end up with a leverage negative and it is entirely traceable to that negative leverage.
I guess than the follow-up to that would be why didn’t we see it nearly to that extent last quarter when it was publicly a pretty similar dynamic around the top-line drivers? I don’t know the only other mix in it is the mix of countries.
So it may have been a country mix issue we’ll have to get back to you on that I don’t have the answer at my fingertips.
We’ll go next to Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
Good morning everyone.
Actually my clarification has to do with Chris’ because it seems like headquartered expenses run the highest since 2009 and I was surprised because of the having and is this Forex or something else going on in that line? And I do have a question with regards to commercial spending and category growth if I can.
Thank you.
What you called it corporate overhead is flat.
So as I answered before on this quarter it's definitely a leverage.
And your question on spending is? Basically in the past and we know that the fact that this market shares are up across the board in oral care it shouldn’t be a huge change.
But especially in the past when advertising has been down there have been commentary regarding aggregate commercial spending which include trader spending.
And trader spending is typically in magnitude two to three times advertising.
So could you tell us whether the aggregate of commercial spending is up or not and in the case of category you mentioned that the category has kind of like bottomed out this is in reference to Bill Schmitz question? So could you clarify whether is it that the category we’re seeing negative mix because of the price increases or actual volumes have slowdown? Because it seems as if considering all the market-share gains all the pricing that you're taking in oral care the organics could have been better? So sorry for the too many questions.
Thank you.
Well the oral care organic sales were better than the company average number one.
Number two in terms of total spending you're right the trade spending as a ratio is a multiple of over three times the traditional advertising spending and relative to the category growth rates Bill’s question was to do with volume and my answer to the question was a balance between volume and price.
And he was asking whether the volume was bottoming out and would come back and I think the answer we gave was you would expect that balance to come back once the higher pricing that has being taken had worked its way through and that we didn’t expect that to be earlier than 2016.
But if I may so the question that I have is based on your assessment are you seeing when you talk about volumes there is this interplay between mix and actual tonnage if you will.
So my question is whether because of the price increases you were seeing negative mix within Colgate’s portfolio? Thank you.
And the answer is we’re not going to get into that level of detail.
We’ll go next to Joe Altobello with Raymond James.
Just had a question on pricing in Latin America it sounds like in your answer to Javier that you’re waiting on some of your competitors to match on the price increases you guys have taken.
And I am just curious when you talk about your competitors in Latin America are they mostly local competitors who don’t have the same currency headwinds that you guys are facing right now or are they multinationals who do have the same currency headwinds? We have both the locals tend to be more country specific Columbia and Mexico.
So they tend to be both.
And if I said it then I apologize I didn’t mean to say it.
We’re not waiting on anybody.
We have been taking pricing in Latin America and I would further say when you look at the breakdown of raw materials in today’s world many of those raw materials are dollar denominated so even a local competitor is going to get hit with the local currency transaction impact of raw materials coming into the country.
So I would say that the incentive to price is fairly elevated across the board.
Okay that was my question yeah.
I was trying to get to when they would follow your lead essentially on the pricing side.
And then on the follow up in terms of advertising spending I know we’ve beaten this to death a little bit here.
But can you give us a sense for what U.S.
advertising did in the quarter year-over-year? Thanks.
Again we’re not going to get into that level of country by country detail.
We’ll go next to Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
So if you could talk a little bit about Europe actually this is with organic sales being down this quarter it’s actually the first time we’ve seen that in quite a while.
So big deceleration in volume and my understanding is there has been little bit of premium based innovation going into market so just surprised to see volume which we know as volume and mix be so light.
Could you talk a little bit about your that would be great? Thank you.
I think when you look at the European environment obviously it’s our lowest growth area of the world.
I think the good news is that although pricing has been consistently negative in Europe if you look at the three quarters this year it has become positively less negative unfortunately we had the volume negative in the third quarter.
And I would say -- we would say that that is going to come back and we’re certainly planning for positive organic growth going forward.
Were there any particular big buckets of product launches appointment it’s just that it’s a pretty significant change in trend on volume? The only thing I would comment to Lauren is that we had a situation in our Europe West grouping which is essentially our Germanic grouping which had to do with the transfer to a new distribution center which disrupted the shipments of that operation specifically in the quarter.
So I think I know Europe was in part affected by that on the volume side which we see A as one time and B already corrected and coming back in the fourth quarter.
But it did have an effect beyond the usual market travails in Europe.
And then just similarly on Latin America it’s pretty rare to see volume go negative.
I mean I understand the pricing environment obviously and that volumes have been light.
But it is rare to see volume go negative.
So just thoughts on what comes next there understanding shares have been solid and market growth you said is kind of stuck in the single digit? Again you’re right it has to do with the pricing.
You can see that the pricing of course is more elevated than the prior two quarters in Latin America and we took strong pricing in Brazil which had an impact on volume and usually the way that works is that as I said earlier once the pricing works its way through than the volume comes back the categories are still growing mid-single digit.
So we hope things stay to the normal cycle of events.
Thank you.
And then just so the call doesn’t end without anyone asking could you share the gross margin bridge for the quarter? It will be great.
No.
But then my model breaks down.
Third quarter the prior year gross profit was 58.6% we got 140 basis points positive from pricing but our funding the growth savings and the restructuring we got favorable 270 basis points so funding the growth continuing to do very well.
On material pricing there was a headwind of 390 basis points and so the offset of the resulting 120 basis points negative to the 140 on pricing gets you the plus 20 and meaningfully over half of the 390 basis points negative was to do with the transaction impact to foreign exchange.
We’ll move next to John Faucher with JP Morgan.
Yes good morning and I guess its afternoon now.
So I’ll try to keep this quick.
One clarification which is I think you said that Venezuela pricing was up 74% and if I look at that that would be pretty much all of the Latin America pricing.
No no John sorry what I said was the official price increase that we were granted was 74% in the fourth quarter of last year.
So on some businesses so that is --.
On some businesses okay I got it that’s what I thought I just want to make sure.
And then as we look out I know you guys don’t want to get into quarterly stuff here.
If you look at it is a more difficult comparison as we look into the fourth quarter.
Just sequentially do you feel like more the pricing flows through and again not looking for specific guidance but it seems like sort of the lower end of your four to seven range is probably the right way to be in the fourth quarter is that the right way to think about it? I am not sure I would go all the way there John I think we’re comfortable with the four to seven range I think your sense of pricing is right.
We still have recovery to move the gross margin because to get to flat on the year we have to be as you’ll calculate from the squeeze we have to be up on the quarter.
So it will be within range I think we are thinking if you take the nine months to it would be kind of around there.
We’ll go next to Alex Paterson with AGI.
Hi Ian so just a couple of quick ones in the specialty pet channel have you seen much in the way of a deflationary impact due to lower commodity cost which seem to be impacting the mass channel has that flowed into that channel for you? And then secondly just curious about the cash you’ve been building and the cash sources are you able to repatriate like you’ve been able to do in the past the cash generation especially in emerging markets back to the U.S.
whereas most of that locked into those markets? On the first -- again without being glib the answer is a simple no.
Particularly in our segment of the pet nutrition business which tends to be the more premium and so we have not seen it creep into specialty.
Cash repatriation Venezuela is Venezuela absent Venezuela it's the same as it has always been.
So we have the ability to repatriate sometimes timings is variable country-by-country but no change from prior.
We’ll take our last question from Mark Astrachan with Stifel.
So going back to the advertising I guess the effectiveness of digital would seem to vary by category for various reason.
So I am curious assuming if there is some truth to that are there specific categories in which ads spend is still up year-on-year or up greater than it appears to be and maybe talk directionally about it category-by-category if you can? I probably could but I am not going to.
I don’t think Mark because we’re not going to get into that level of detail.
I would say to your general point on digital it’s less category specific although the category maybe linked to the user its more which use that you're trying to get to and how they access.
We just went through an extensive review for example in Latin America majority of viewers millennial.
They happen to be a growing majority of parents.
They happen to do an awful lot on Facebook and they happen to be avid viewers of YouTube video.
So do you want to connect with that group then the best way to get your advertising message to that group is YouTube videos and to do so in a way that is purpose driven.
So if you were to Google all of that you’d see some pretty interesting work from our point of view.
But it tends to be more driven by the viewer than it does by the category.
Okay.
Well good.
Is that it? That’s it.
Okay.
Then thank you all for your questions and thanks to all the Colgate people around the world that deliver the results.
Thank you everybody.
That does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to today’s Colgate-Palmolive Company's Fourth Quarter Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded and is being simulcast live at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
Today’s conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of the company’s views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from these statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult the company’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on Colgate’s website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Cautionary Statements on Forward-looking Statements.
This conference call will also include a discussion of non-GAAP financial measures which differ from the company’s results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Colgate will discuss organic sales growth which is net sales growth excluding foreign exchange acquisitions and divestitures.
The company will also discuss gross profit gross profit margin SG&amp;A SG&amp;A as a percent of net sales operating profit operating profit margin net income and earnings per share on a diluted basis excluding the impact of the items described in the press release.
A full reconciliation of the corresponding GAAP measures is included in the press release and is posted in the For Investors section of Colgate’s website at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
Just a reminder there may be a slight delay before the question-and-answer session begins due to the web simulcast.
Now for opening remarks I would like to turn the call over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Bina Thompson.
Please go ahead Bina.
Thank you Chanel.
And good morning everybody and welcome to our fourth quarter 2015 earnings release conference call.
With me this morning are Ian Cook Chairman President and CEO; Dennis Hickey CFO; Victoria Dolan Corporate Controller; and Elaine Paik Treasurer.
We’re delighted to have finished 2015 with continued strong organic sales growth in the froth quarter.
The 5% growth was well within our targeted growth rate of 4% to 7% and is impressive coming on top of strong growth in the year-ago quarter.
Our gross profit margin was up 20 basis points despite continued pressures from foreign exchange related transaction costs.
And although down on a year-over-year basis our advertising as a percentage of sales was up sequentially from the third quarter.
As you will hear in more details as I go through the divisions our market share around the world are growing.
Innovation has played an important role and will continue to do so as we enter 2016.
Our global growth and efficiency program is on track and our ongoing funding-the-growth initiatives continue to deliver substantial savings.
Our balance sheet is strong and working capital is under very good control.
And as you read in this morning’s press release we have taken the decision effective December 31 2015 to change our accounting method for our Venezuelan operations.
And as a result in future periods we will no longer include the results of our Venezuelan operations in our consolidated financial statement.
As we stated in the press release we expect the EPS impact in 2016 resulting from the change in accounting for our Venezuelan operation will be about a negative of $0.10 for the full year.
And we’d expect this impact to be negative $0.02 to $0.03 per quarter.
So let’s turn to the divisions first with North America.
We’re pleased with the continued solid organic sales growth in this region.
And as mentioned in the press release our market shares increased year-to-date in toothpaste manual toothbrushes mouthwash liquid hand soap body wash liquid cleaners and fabric conditioners.
And as you’d expect innovation was an important contributor to these excellent results.
In the third quarter of 2015 we launched Colgate Total Daily Repair toothpaste.
This toothpaste remineralizes weakened enamel to help prevent cavities and maintain stronger teeth as well as kills bacteria that cause gingivitis for healthier gums.
In addition we engaged in a targeted outreach to consumers with diabetes.
People with diabetes are two times more likely to develop gum disease.
We reached both dentists and consumers and developed retail partnerships.
And as a result our overall market share for Colgate Total toothpaste grew to 10.3% from 10% at the beginning of 2015.
Our Colgate Optic White toothpaste franchise is growing as well up to 5.7% at our last period of 2015 thanks to the launch of Colgate Optic White Platinum Express White.
With the help of a comprehensive IMC plan support from dental professionals and strong in-store activities Colgate Enamel Health toothpaste has grown share as well.
And toothpaste innovation will continue in the first quarter.
Building on the success of our whitening franchise we’re launching Colgate Optic White Platinum High Impact [ph] White which provides four shades visibly whiter teeth in six weeks and starts working in just three days.
Also we’re introducing premium-priced Colgate Enamel Health Mineral Repair toothpaste with an accompanying mouthwash and whitening toothbrush.
The toothbrush and mouthwash help replenish natural calcium for stronger enamel.
To bolster our toothbrush business we’re launching Colgate Kids Interactive the only talking-powered toothbrush featuring kids’ favorite licensed characters which coach you to better brushing.
The brush features a two-minute timer to help ensure effective brushing.
Also in the first quarter Tom’s of Maine is launching Tom’s Natural Rapid Release Sensitive toothpaste with a clinically proven arginine and calcium carbonate formula to provide rapid release and long-lasting protection.
With no artificial dyes sweeteners or preservatives it will be premium-priced.
Our liquid hand soap share was up 90 basis points year-to-date.
And our year-to-date body wash share increased 80 basis points.
More innovation in this quarter should help maintain this healthy momentum.
In liquid hand soap we’re launching Softsoap Foaming Hand Soap for kids that makes handwashing fun as well as Softsoap Pure Foaming Hand Soap with a simple formula that is dye-free alcohol-free has 100% natural fragrance yet effectively cleans and purifies.
And in body wash we’re launching Softsoap Luminous Oils one variant with avocado oil and iris and the other with macadamia oil and peony designed to leave skin feeling soft.
Turning then to Europe South Pacific.
We’re delighted with the return to positive organic sales growth in this region.
Across Europe our market shares increased - toothpaste toothbrushes body wash underarm and fabric conditioner.
In the toothpaste category we’ve seen strong results.
In France our market share is up 80 basis points year-to-date to 22.4%.
In Poland we grew share 160 basis points to 47.6% year-to-date.
And in Italy we increased share 30 basis points to 24.6% year-to-date.
Similarly in manual toothbrushes our market shares increased year-to-date.
Overall in the region our market shares are up 120 basis points to 24.7% year-to-date with excellent results in areas such as the UK which is up 340 basis points to 39.3%; Germany which is up a full point to 21%; and Italy which is up 60 basis points to 16.4%.
And as in the U.S.
our innovation grid for the first quarter in Europe is very full.
In the toothpaste category we’re introducing Colgate Total Deep Clean which features high cleaning prophy-silica the same ingredient dentists use for in-office cleaning.
The product provides a deep-cleaning user experience and is unique among the current variants in the Colgate Total portfolio.
In addition we’re restaging the Colgate Total toothpaste premium line with a new design that better communicates higher quality healthier and scientific and therapeutic benefits.
New icons visually convey the variant benefits enhancing differentiation relevance and shopability.
In the toothbrush category we’re launching Colgate 360° Expert White Toothbrush Plus Pen the toothbrush and whitening pen that has helped increase market shares here in the U.S.
under the Colgate Optic White name.
And in personal care we’re relaunching Palmolive Gourmet shower gels with high-density creamy formulas and a new packaging technology that provides a premium look with high quality satin finishing and very strong shelf impact.
Vanilla pleasure chocolate passion peach delight and strawberry touch will enchant consumers at point of sale.
Also in personal care is the Palmolive SKIN GARDEN line a premium offering with a regimen approach.
The shower gel bath foam liquid hand soap bar soap and body lotion contain irresistible fragrances natural ingredients rooted in the garden such as violet and honey peony pear and Mirabelle plums sensorial [ph] and vivid textures and cutting-edge packaging all reinforcing the Palmolive regimen.
And as we told you last quarter our Sanex business is performing well and we have new news to report here as well.
Our line of Sanex Advanced shower oils is bringing the shower oil trend from pharmacy to mass.
The shower oils provide a feeling of comfort in the shower and are formulated to minimize the risk of irritation.
These are even suitable for children a new consumer target.
Also inspired by the pharmacy channel are our new Sanex Advanced body bombs [ph] in a new stand-up tube format with a thicker richer formula and premium pricing.
Sanex Manual will also be launched which is the first mask [ph] personal care range truly focused on men’s skin health.
As you know we have a very strong market-leading homecare business in this region.
And an exciting innovation in this category is a line of Ajax specialty sprays which facilitate difficult everyday tasks in the kitchen.
Priced at a premium individual variants tackle different surfaces - the oven and microwave MicroCeramic and stainless steel.
So turning then to Latin America.
Despite some macroeconomic challenges in certain countries such as Brazil and Venezuela the division delivered solid organic sales growth.
Severe devaluations across the region have necessitated fairly significant price increases.
But despite that our regional market shares are solid and increase year-to-date in toothpaste manual toothbrushes mouthwash toilet soaps shampoos and liquid cleaners.
In Brazil our toothpaste market share continues to climb up 100 basis points year-to-date to 72.4% with the most recent lead at 73.4%.
Innovations across our portfolio have contributed to this success.
In Mexico despite continued competitive pressure our market share is up 120 basis points to 80.8%.
One of our newest innovations Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection with Neutrazucar increased 70 basis points and is now almost at 2 points.
Our market-leading manual toothbrush share is up 350 basis points year-to-date across the region.
This excellent performance has been driven by innovation in the Super Premium category with products such as Colgate Slim Soft and Colgate 360.
In toilet soaps we increased our leadership share 40 basis points to 30.9% year-to-date.
Protex and Palmolive continue to hold the number one and number two positions in the region.
And we achieved record shares in Mexico Colombia and Guatemala.
More innovation is planned for this year.
In oral care whitening category we have three exciting launches.
In toothpaste we’re launching Colgate Luminous White Advanced Expert which delivers three shades whither teeth; A companion Colgate Luminous White mouthwash with an alcohol free zinc and anti-tartar salts formula that helps deliver an anti-stain white smile; and Colgate Luminous White Advanced toothbrush and whitening pen with a claim to provide whiter teeth in two days will both be launched later this year.
In mouthwash a graphics relaunch of Colgate Plax 2-in-1 mouthwash clearly explains the benefits see the [ph] removed bacteria for a fresh and clean mouth and to drive growth for the category.
In personal care under the Protex name we’re launching a range of bar soaps shower gel and liquid hand soaps.
Protex Pro Hydrate developed from the consumer insight that to have healthy and moisturized skin is necessary to deeply clean skin before moisturizing this innovation has a formula that eliminates 99.9% of bacteria and has a macadamia oil complex that glides over your skin for a soft sensation.
A similar range under the Palmolive equity will be Palmolive almond and omega oil with a nourishing formula.
In underarm a relaunch of premium-priced Lady Speed Stick Clinical and Speed Stick Clinical will provide the benefits of superior sweat protection neutralizing the source of bad odor hypoallergenic anti-stain technology and advanced skin care.
Turning then to Asia.
While organic sales growth was somewhat muted in this region in the fourth quarter we’re pleased that volume increased in our largest businesses - Greater China and India.
And this despite some overall slowing in category growth rates.
And as elsewhere innovation has helped drive growth.
In India our toothpaste share is up to 54.7% year-to-date.
Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief Repair and Prevent and a relaunch of the rest of our sensitivity line have met with success.
In addition Colgate Total Charcoal with a unique antibacterial formula which reduces bacteria on 100% of your mouth’s surfaces has added market share.
Elsewhere in the region our toothpaste shares were a little soft on a year-to-date basis but market shares for the fourth quarter increased versus fourth quarter 2014 in China Thailand The Philippines Singapore Taiwan and Pakistan.
Our year-to-date toothbrush shares are also up in India The Philippines Malaysia Taiwan Hong Kong and Pakistan.
A particular success has been Colgate Slim Soft Charcoal Gold toothbrush with less than 0.01 millimeter charcoal gold slim tip antibacterial bristles for deep gentle cleaning.
In the most recent period it achieved 2.1 3.6 and 2.2 share points respectively in Malaysia Hong Kong and Singapore.
In the fourth quarter in Hong Kong we launched our Colgate Optic White toothbrush and whitening pen and it has a 6.4% share in the latest read.
Our mouthwash business is strong.
Across the region our market share is up to 25.7% year-to-date up 70 basis points year-on-year with the most recent lead at 26.5%.
And we have some exciting innovation launching this quarter.
In China where natural ingredients resonate very strongly with the consumer we will be introducing Colgate Naturals toothpaste.
There are five variants - tea tree oil gum care lemon zesty radiating white jasmine and chamomile healthy refreshing lotus jade green soothing gum and seaweed salt pure white.
The packaging visually communicates the different ingredients.
And we have a number of new products in the toothbrush category.
Colgate Slim Soft Sensitive a silky soft brush for sensitive teeth and gums; Colgate Super Flexi Black with a flexible neck and improved handle; and a line of mid-tier brushes for kids with tapered bristles.
To maintain our momentum in mouthwash we’re launching in China Colgate Plax Extreme Icy Mint mouthwash which delivers long-lasting prevention of bad breath with dual mint essence as well as an antibacterial protection.
Then going to Africa Eurasia.
As you know currency headwinds in this part of the world have necessitated some significant pricing in countries such as Russia but market shares are solid and growing.
Our year-to-date regional toothpaste market share is at 33.2% up a full point from a year-ago period.
In Russia our share is up 260 basis points year-to-date to 34.5% reaching a record-high of 35.2% in the most recent period.
In South Africa our market share is up 80 basis points year-to-date to 49.6%.
And our recent launch of Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection with Sugar Acid Neutralizer in both these countries has contributed to these strong results.
In manual toothbrushes our market shares are up in many countries across the region.
In Russia our year-to-date share is up 260 basis points to 48.4%.
Excellent in-store execution has played an important role in these results.
In Israel two new products Colgate Extra Clean and Colgate Slim Soft helped increase our year-to-date share by 300 basis points to 51.2% with the most recent share read at a record 55.6%.
Our bar soap business is strong as well up 80 basis points to 21.7% on a year-to-date basis.
And in South Africa the Protex brand is helping grow the business and our market share is up 20 basis points on a year-to-date basis.
In Russia Palmolive is leading growth driven by promotional support as well as strong in-store execution.
Our year-to-date share is up 50 basis points.
And we have some exciting innovations for this part of the world as well.
This quarter we will be launching Colgate Total Pro Breath Health [ph] toothpaste across the division.
The differentiated packaging with icons on the pack clearly explains the benefits which include a unique breath-freshening technology ON12 [ph] complex.
Another toothpaste launch will be the Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief Repair and Prevent line extension.
This premium-priced toothpaste repairs the cause of sensitivity and prevents further sensitivity from gum recession.
And an innovation for the Russian market is Colgate Altai Herbs Ginseng with an exclusive blend of Altai herbs and ginseng.
In the personal care category we are relaunching our existing line of Palmolive Aroma Sensations body washes and adding two new variants Feel Good and So Dynamic.
Finally with Hill’s.
Hill’s finished the year with a strong quarter both here and abroad.
All three brands - Prescription Diet Science Diet and Ideal Balance - are doing well.
In fact Hill’s Prescription Diet or flagship line of therapeutic pet foods became a $1 billion brand in 2015.
In the U.S.
superstore retail consumption is growing in both PetSmart and Petco which contributed to our solid results.
In Europe our Ideal Balance line is now fully rolled out across all key countries and doing well.
We’re seeing a steady build of distribution and volume.
Our integrated marketing campaign is focusing on trial and repurchase.
And we’re very excited about our upcoming innovation.
Just launched at the North American Vet Conference is Prescription Diet Derm Defense for dogs.
This diet is the first and only nutrition formulated to reduce signs of environmental allergies by helping to disrupt the internal allergy response and create a barrier against future episodes in dogs.
It’s available in dry and delicious new [ph] forms and of course will be supported by a full IMC campaign to engage the increasingly millennial vet population.
Hill’s will also be entering the wearables space.
Hill’s has formed a strategic alliance with AGL to advance veterinary healthcare with the development of a wearable sensor for dogs that is sophisticated enough to distinguish the acts of scratching and shaking from running.
Coupled with a robust data and analytics platform it’s designed to more quickly alert veterinarians and pet owners to potential health concerns as part of an ongoing monitoring program.
It will be recommended for dogs that need to be regularly monitored including those with dermatological conditions arthritis or obesity.
New news in the wellness category is premium-priced Hill’s Science Diet healthy cuisine for dogs and cats which uses our new Algenec [ph] technology to deliver superior-looking tasty wet food.
The new formulas are loaded with tasty morsels tender vegetables and savory sauce.
So before I wrap up quickly I want to cover two more housekeeping items relative to your models.
Net interest in 2016 should be between $30 million and $45 million to quarter with a loss of interest income in Venezuela.
Average diluted common shares outstanding were 896.5 million for the three months ended December 31 2015.
Because we had a GAAP loss in the fourth quarter of 2015 due to the one-time charge with Venezuela this number excludes 6.6 million of net incremental common shares outstanding assumed issued from the exercises in the money stock options as they’re anti-dilutive.
We’d expect the 6.6 million shares to be included in diluted common shares outstanding in the first quarter of 2016 as they should not be anti-dilutive in this period.
So in summary we’re extremely pleased with the way that we finished the year.
Organic sales growth was strong around the world our gross margin increased and our market shares are healthy.
Colgate people around the world are all focused on our strategies and priorities thereby delivering these consistent strong results.
Our global growth and efficiency program is on track and these are ongoing funding-the-growth programs.
Our innovation pipeline is full and we’re excited about the many products and initiatives we just told you about.
So we expect this momentum to continue into 2016 and look forward to sharing our progress with you as we go throughout the year.
So Chanel that’s the end of my prepared remarks.
I should like to turn it over now to Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
Today’s question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically for the telephone audience.
[Operator Instructions] And we’ll take our first question from Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Hey good morning.
So Ian you had very strong pricing in the quarter both at the corporate level and in Latin America but the volume reaction looked more severe than what we’ve seen traditionally in your business particularly in Latin America.
So I was hoping you could just discuss consumer demand elasticity in this current macroenvironment if you’re seeing any different behavior versus past with the macro slowdown we’re seeing in Latin America and then how that may impact your desire to take additional pricing going forward to offset incremental FX pressure.
And then that’s at the consumer level but at the competitor level what are you generally seeing from your competitors? Are they following and can you characterize the competitive environment that you’re seeing? Thanks Yes thanks Dara.
And before I jump in let me just take this belated opportunity to wish everyone on the call a happy healthy and safe 2016 in this volatile world.
And when we turn to that volatile world we’re actually very pleased with the results in 2015 as Bina said with consistent 5% organic top line growth in the quarter and in the year and with our gross margin building from the second quarter to 59% in the fourth quarter which is the highest in two years in that environment which positions us well to see margin expansion in 2016.
And I’ll come back to that when we no doubt talk about margin.
But turning to how we think about the business in the environment everybody is operating in first of all we seek to have clarity and consistency of strategy.
And we have that for the last decade with a simple and focused strategy that starts with consumers and ends with the leadership development in the company to deliver our products to those consumers.
Then you have the balance between the consistency of the results by quarter and our ambition of the longer-term which are captured in the global growth and efficiency program in terms of building the organization we want for the future.
And then of course the decisions we make on the ground and the agility that’s required to deal with events as they unfold.
Now if you look at Latin America to this specific question obviously the foreign exchange headwind there as it was in Africa Eurasia was the most severe we experienced in our world for 2015.
And when we think about the consumers we think about the brands and the health of our brands and the development of the market share of our brand.
But obviously we need to be focused on rebuilding the margin which is the fulcrum for investment in a business.
So in both those divisions we took conscious decision to take pricing to help recover gross margin and suffered the volume decline you see.
We feel however very comfortable because of the performance of our market shares whether you look at the value market share and local currency as Bina talked specifically to Brazil or whether you look at the volume market shares in that region they’re up.
So the consumer is staying with us and the consumer is staying with us across the portfolio of brands that we have.
And as we think forward into 2016 now I guess a couple of things to say.
And it relates to the gross margin.
First of all the enormous translation headwind we faced in 2015 will still be there in 2016 but it will be at a lesser level.
Second the general commodity pricing environment year-on-year will be flat to modestly down.
Third we have our funding the growth program which we talk about every call which we expect to build the same way it has done for the last several years.
We have the global growth and efficiency program.
And on top of that we have pricing.
But we have less pricing in 2016 than we had in 2015.
And half of that pricing without Venezuela is still rollover pricing into 2016.
So our planning expectation is that we will see the balance between volume and pricing move back a little bit more to volume and less to pricing.
And that will include Latin America and we expect our market shares to continue to grow.
So the consumer behavior hasn’t changed.
We haven’t seen down trading.
And we’re confident about the reversal back to volume more and price less in 2016 for Latin America and the overall business.
And we’ll take our next question from Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.
Hi.
Can I just follow-up on that last one just in terms of the outlook maybe in the near-term to manage expectations? I know the comps in Latin America on the volume so either really tough in the first half of ‘16.
So do you think we’re going to see negative volume growth maybe for the next quarter or two potentially even worse than we just saw in the fourth quarter in Latin America? But then broadly I also wanted to ask more strategically Asia the slowdown in category growth that you’re seeing there it surprises me that we’re seeing a slowdown in category growth given the very low per capita consumption levels.
I get in Latin America but not so much in Asia.
So can you talk about Asia specifically China and India? I think you called out - do you think there’s something more structural there? Do you think that it’s going to take a longer time? Do you really think it’s an economic factor that’s leading to the slowdown of the growth? If you could talk about that that would be great.
Thanks.
Yes.
I think in Latin America the expectation is to see - not to see the kind of volume negative that we had in the fourth quarter as we set our way into 2016.
Obviously it will build across the year.
But no we don’t expect to repeat of that level.
When you turn to Asia and if you look at the emerging markets in general the local currency growth rates in category is still mid-single digits maybe slightly off that in the fourth quarter.
We haven’t seen anything dramatic in terms of a change in behavior thus far.
We’re obviously very focused on that Wendy as you would suppose we would be.
And pleasingly I can report that the market shares in China and India has been mentioned with India are both out nicely in 2015.
So we stay close to it.
Right now we continue to see cash agreements growing around mid-single digits in local currency terms.
And we’ll take our next question from Steve Powers with UBS.
Great.
Thanks.
Just one more on the volume if I could just to clean it up.
Ian can you just talk away to the volume softness that you’ve seen in response to pricing has been at all more pronounced on the personal and home care side of things versus oral care or if it’s about equal? And then a few months ago you’d indicated that you saw traditional advertising ratios would be up again as a percentage of sales in 2016.
And as we’ve talked about good deal has changed since then the macroenvironment so I’m just curious if that’s still your expectation in terms of what’s embedded in your outlook the Super bowl ad notwithstanding.
Thanks.
The answer to your first question on volume is no not really.
It has more to do with the short-term slowdown in relation to the level of increase in pricing you take regardless of which category you’re taking pricing in.
On the advertising side I won’t repeat too much of an old story.
But I would say back to this notion of marketing mix when we think about advertising we think about everything from educating kids in schools to get dental professionals and veterinary professionals to make a recommendation before the consumer has even purchased a product to engaging with consumers to the various different media that we can avail ourselves of increasingly digital but also the so called traditional media and then of course a strong belief in making that engagement carry through to the retail level where we think that expenditure can build a brand health and value as well.
But as we said on the last call we expected as we got into our budgeting process that our innovation flow would be such that we would expect to see coming into 2016 an increase in the traditional advertising while still using the in-store lever as well.
And indeed as you might imagine given richness of innovation that Bina went through in her prepared remarks that is exactly where we have ended up with our plan.
And so I can say that our advertising the traditional advertising for 2016 is up both on an absolute basis and of course on a ratio basis as well given that strength of innovation.
And let’s go to our next question from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Hi good morning.
Hey Bill.
Hey a couple of things.
How do you define strong organic growth? Because I’m trying to figure out how that sort of plays out relative to Venezuela.
So can you tell us how much Venezuela contributed to organic growth now that kind of the cat’s out of the bag on the earnings side? And then sort of how you think organic growth is going to play out next year? Yes.
Well let me just say Bill in response to your question when you say how do you define strong organic growth I think we would say in the environment wherein the range we had 4% to 7% bookends strong organic growth and 5% for 2015 in that regard is therefore strong.
And the way we’re thinking about 2016 without Venezuela is exactly the same way which is to say our target for organic growth is to grow in that 4% to 7% range without Venezuela.
And I can report that I have to say from a top line point of view the year is off to a bright start.
And we’ll take our next question from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Hey good morning folks.
Hey Jason.
Thank you for the question and happy New Year to you as well.
I want to come back on Venezuela real quick just to make sure we understand the math.
I think in the last Q you filed that you listed around 4% of sales 2% of EBIT clearly more UPS with interest income that you talked about.
But on the EBIT side the math I know on very rounding numbers suggest that removal of Venezuela is going to be about a 50 basis point contribution of EBIT margins.
Is that sort of directionally right? And if so can you comment sort of bigger picture on how you are thinking about margins overall next year both with and without that tailwind? Yes.
Well we don’t tend to talk about EBIT margin Jason so let me turn to gross margin which as you know we regard as the fulcrum of everything.
So as I said gross margin up 20 bps to 59 in the fourth quarter.
And perhaps I should take the opportunity now before Lauren comes on and chides me of going through the row fort for that fourth quarter gross profit.
So if you go to the gross profit in the prior year was 58.8.
Pricing our strongest showing for the year up 1.6 percentage points so positive 1.6 points.
Restructuring and funding the growth 290 basis points positive 2.9.
Material prices 420 negative of which 240 was transaction modest negative with all other and you get to the 59.
Now as we roll that forward to 2016 and the plans we have we feel good about our ability to meaningfully increase gross margin in 2016.
And we would say that we expect to have gross margin expansion in 2016 to be in that 75 to 125 range.
Part of the reason as I said earlier is the less aggressive foreign headwind.
But as I also said earlier we have pricing less but half of it rollover we have funding the growth which you know very well.
We have the global growth and efficiency program.
And we expect to see that gross margin expansion begin in the first quarter of 2016.
And we’ll take our next question from Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
Hi guys.
Hi Ali.
I wanted to drill down on two things.
One is SG&amp;A and then just a broader question on SKU proliferation.
First on SG&amp;A I know we’ve talked a lot about ad spend you know it is the seventh quarter in a row we’re seeing ad spend as the percentage sales go down.
But your point earlier your shares aren’t moving as you confirm both volume and value.
It doesn’t like it’s moving.
So how much more of a shift do you think you can do from ad spend to in-store? And kind of what are you watching just to make sure you don’t go into the olden days’ fear of just hurting the brand and it becomes a risk from that perspective? So kind of what are you watching? How much more you can go? And on non-advertising ex-advertising SG&amp;A I thought we would see more benefit because of the hubbing and the restructuring and everything that we talked about there.
Why are we not seeing there? So that’s the SG&amp;A question.
And then on the SKU proliferation or innovation question how do you guys - so every quarter we hear really interesting things being briefly out of breath describing them at the start of every quarter.
How do you guys deal with SKU proliferation? Is there a very clear discipline of put one in take on out? Or how do you deal with that? And if you give us a sense of your number of skews you guys sell over the years and how much that’s gone up it’s just something that struck me listening that again.
Thanks.
Yes yes.
Well thanks to your one question as usual.
But let’s turn to the advertising.
And I mentioned in the introductory comments the word of balance.
And you and I had this conversation on the last call.
We don’t view this as either/or we view this as what do we need to do to create the trial and repeat of our brands build health over time and ultimately build market share with more consumers using our products.
And I wasn’t quite sure what you meant when you said your market share is not moving.
It is moving and it’s moving up.
And Bina went through some of those examples.
And when we think about advertising we think about as I said earlier marketing mix from the school room to the dental office to the store and all of the other media through which you can reach people including digital including television including magazine and advertising and the like even billboards in Africa.
And we think about that balance all the time to make sure that our brand health doesn’t weaken over time.
And I said that the advertising would be up absolutely and as a percent to sales in 2016.
And we have quite a list of measures that we look at from trial to repeat to various brand health measures which we prac over time so that we don’t get to a point where you start to shall we say take more out of a brand than you are putting back into a brand.
And that’s back to that word balance.
We think we’ve kept the right balance in 2015.
When we go into 2016 with the portfolio and the brand objectives that we have for 2016 we’re taking up the traditional.
We will continue to use the in-store as part of our marketing mix and we will monitor very very closely the trial and repeat measures we have in terms of the new innovation and the brand health measures that we have in terms of the brands Colgate Sonic et cetera that we have around the world because we’re a marketing company.
And that’s what we do.
So I think you can be reassured that it’s not one or the other.
We’re not trying to push from one to the other.
We’re just trying to register the point that we have to think about the mix of all of the engagement points we have with consumers.
And as I said before you have a 74 share in Brazil.
That’s how much of the shelf you have.
You can have an enormous impact with the consumer in the store.
Your SKU proliferation point of view is spot on.
It is always a risk that you end up in the hunt for innovation of this risk of over proliferating.
I can’t say that we have a strict one in one out policy.
That would not be correct.
I can say that as a company measure from the top of the house we monitor our SKUs by division by business and overall as a company.
And thankfully our SKU count has been coming down.
And now within that you have cycles when you’re replacing and you’ve got a double count.
But it’s something we watch really at the top of the house.
And it’s a central part of our simplification initiatives because it touches everything the factory the inventory you could imagine all of the touch points.
So it’s a fair question.
I don’t think we’re at risk of over proliferating with the innovation we have because we have a discipline to bring the overall numbers down year upon year.
And we’ll take our next question from Joe Altobello with Raymond James.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Hey guys.
I guess I just want to go back to gross margin for a second and the 75 to 125 bps expansion outlook for this year.
That seems to be your evergreen target.
And I was looking at my model and if it’s right you guys haven’t done that since 2009.
So it’s been a while and I understand there’s been a lot of external factors that have kind of crept up here.
But how much confidence do you have in that? And I guess how do we think about raw materials ex the transactional impact of currency in that? And how do we think about the exclusion of Venezuela in terms of the dynamics of that gross margin expansion? Thanks.
Yes.
Well how you think about it - I mean first of all there is no one more keenly aware of our gross margin plateaus than us number one.
Number two when we think about it again as I mentioned a little bit earlier from that transaction point of view although foreign exchange continues to be a negative it is less of a negative than what we endured in 2015.
Now of course that improvement builds over the year but still overall it is less negative.
As I also mentioned earlier underlying commodity cost with [indiscernible] even at 35 are basically flat to modestly down.
That’s favorable.
Third we have the funding the growth program that we have had every year and we track through quarter by quarter.
And you will see the history and you now know the history for 2015.
And that’s our goal and objective for 2016.
And as I said we have pricing lesser than last year of which 50% is rollover.
Now Venezuela clearly adds benefit to gross margin.
But I would say that we definitely feel that 2016 is the year we need to raise our gross margin and the proof will be in the pudding when we talk next at the end of the first quarter.
Everything that we know we feel confident about that.
And we’ll take our next question from Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Thank you so much.
Hi Bina and Ian.
Ian just a more commentary if you wouldn’t mind walking around a couple of big markets - China Brazil Mexico Russia - just the state of the consumer.
I mean from where we sit sometimes things can sound really dire.
But what are you hearing from your country leaders and people on the ground about the consumer sentiment? And is it significantly worse in any one of those areas than in another? Well it is difficult to find anybody with anything optimistic to say about much of anything these days.
Without being overly general I would say that the underlying consumer sentiment and behavior in China and India is okay.
I would say that the underlying consumer sentiment in Mexico is okay.
I would say that the underlying consumer sentiment in Russia is not great.
And that would be English understatement.
And I would say in Brazil the underlying sentiment in Brazil is not great.
And we have said before that again our objective is to grow market share for our brands in those environments.
I think we have said before that we think Brazil is not an overnight fix.
And we will stay the course.
But again if you take this generalized view I think there are still more of the emerging countries where the underlying consumer sentiment is okay.
Russia and Brazil would not be in that group in 2015.
And we don’t believe in 2016 either.
And although it’s a smaller part of our business that would also apply to some of the African countries but they are smaller.
And we’ll take our next question from Bill Chappell with SunTrust.
Thanks good morning.
Hey Bill.
Just a follow-up could you quantify what the organic growth was last year ex Venezuela? And then the other question on share repurchase I’m not sure if you commented on that on what it was in the quarter.
But is there any thoughts with kind of stock where it’s been? And in the past you’ve certainly used opportunities to step up and use a little more cash? Is that a though right now? Okay.
The answer on Venezuela is polite no.
So I repeat we delivered 5% organic growth in the fourth quarter and in 2015.
And we are guiding that we will deliver the same organic range between 4% and 7% excluding Venezuela in 2016.
As we think about the share repurchases one has to be thoughtful about capital structure in the environment wherein given the foreign exchange impact on cash profit.
And as we have gone through our capital structure right now and we have not made this decision yet but I think it would be fair to say as a company that we have been for since 1895 I think committed to paying dividend and have increased it for the last 50 plus years.
So that’s a decision yet to be made but that is obviously a use of cash so is capital expenditure which is very focused on supporting our global growth and efficiency program.
And then we turn to share buyback.
Right now our capital structure would say our gross share buyback for this year would be in the 1 billion to 1.3 billion range.
And we’ll take our next question from Lauren Lieberman with Barclays.
Great thanks.
I would never chide you in first of all.
I did it already.
I had a question on Europe.
When I spent some time with panels middle of last year we talked quite a bit about premium innovations and it struck me that sort of newer direction a different way of dealing with the longstanding deflationary environment in Europe.
So if you could talk a little bit about how those efforts are going on premium innovation if it’s a strategy you’re thinking about taking a more significant way into other markets that would be really helpful.
Thank you.
Yes.
Well it is well underway.
I mean as we went through our 2016 budget program I think you may have had a sneak peek on stuff we haven’t yet seen here.
But that is very much underpinning the European plan for 2016 and some of those products are moving into the marketplace as Bina mentioned as we speak right now.
And it would be fair to say that depending on the market depending on the condition of the consumer that is the model that is under serious study and indeed has already been adopted in certain parts of the world.
But to the extent that it can be deployed you expect that it will be.
And we’ll take our next question from Javier Escalante with Consumer Edge Research.
Good morning everyone.
My question has to do - hello how are you? My question has to do with reports on the British press that Glaxo is considering to sell off its consumer division.
And I would like to hear your thoughts with regards to whether this asset which includes Sensodyne is something that you would consider as strategic for Colgate on one end? On other to what extent with the restructuring savings ending in 2016 whether financially will of interest as well as a means to generate savings? Thank you.
Well first of all I’m hesitant to comment on the British press Javier.
Okay I understand.
But what about Glaxo consumer? Is it something that - is it kind of - I know that you are very choosy and very financially disciplined but do you think that this is something that it would be of interest to Colgate to consider? The only proper answer to that question is that we don’t comment on market speculation and rumor or the British press.
And our final question comes from John Faucher with JP Morgan.
Thank you very much.
Two questions here.
The first is a lot more discussion about the local brands and things like that.
Yet as you said your market shares are generally increasing.
Can you talk about what you’ve seen from them from a transactional pricing standpoint? And then the second question is probably it’s a little bit of a devil’s advocate question and probably not one you’re expecting which is when you talked about having the flexibility of sort of the touch points right advertising versus trade and in-store what have you and given that dialogue you’ve had over the last 6 to 12 months wouldn’t that argue that longer-term that the gross margin expansion which we’ve been looking for is less relevant right? It seems as though if you have that marketing mix flexibility it should be about the operating margin not the gross margin.
So I guess sort of putting it back in your court in that regard doesn’t the gross margin lose some of its importance overtime if you’re moving these buckets around more? Thanks.
So let me answer the question of the local brand pricing.
I guess for those materials that are dollar-denominated they say it’s the same pressures that we do.
And many of these local brands are not classic cheapies.
They are reasonably well-priced products.
I must say I can’t give you a chapter and verse review on have they mimicked the pricing we have.
But we certainly haven’t seen them going the other way.
So either they are premium in many cases and they stayed there or I think I could say that they will have moved their pricing.
We haven’t seen them trying to go the other way.
On the marketing mix comment I would be careful to argue about the flexibility.
I think what it gives us is against the objectives we have for a brand or an innovation or against a particular consumer what is the best way to think about all of the touch points in terms of reaching them.
I made the comment on the last call that over half of moms today in Latin America are Millennials that Facebook and YouTube are enormous connection points for that community.
So that’s a great place to go to touch those kind of consumers.
And I think personally gross margin remains as important because what you’re trying to do there I think is to create value in a product that the consumer sees and is prepared to pay for back to Lauren’s point about premium by innovation.
And it’s off that fulcrum everything else comes because otherwise from an operating point of view you’re only leaving yourself really leveraged overhead and advertising to deal with.
So I think a gross margin focus should be an un-remising focus in a consumer products company in our types of businesses.
Okay.
Well I’m pleased and surprised pleasantly by the duration of the call.
Thank you for all of the questions.
And we look forward to keeping you updated as the year unfolds.
Thank you very much.
That does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.